

1 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Aid Changes Raise Issue Of Diversity At Colleges

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

 BODY:
College and university endowments have recovered most of the losses they sustained during the recession, now that the economy has begun to grow. Yet as this year's high school seniors begin to fill out applications and aid forms, a number of prestigious smaller colleges are straining to meet students' financial needs. To bridge the gap, some colleges have begun revising their financial aid formulas, raising concerns about how campus diversity -- both economic and racial -- might be affected.
Wesleyan University in Connecticut recently decided to take a step back from its longstanding practice of admitting students without regard to their ability to pay, a process known as need-blind admissions. Grinnell College in Iowa is weighing whether it needs to move in the same direction. 
Since the recession ended, a few colleges, including Williams College in Massachusetts and Dartmouth, have partly retreated from policies of providing aid only through grants, rather than requiring students to take out loans as part of their financial aid packages. Some other colleges continue to practice need-blind admissions, or have a policy of meeting the full financial need for most students, but have trimmed those practices around the edges, saying that they no longer apply to transfer students.
Administrators at highly selective colleges say they feel caught between financial reality and the fear that rising financial aid needs will result in a wealthier, whiter student population. ''This is a conversation that's probably going to occur almost every year for the next several years,'' said Raynard S. Kington, president of Grinnell, ''and I think that's probably true at every other institution like ours, as well.''
In the past year, college endowments were essentially flat, and analysts think they are unlikely to return to booming growth. At the same time, state support for public colleges has continued to shrink, family incomes remain below prerecession levels, and the price of higher education has continued to climb.
As a result, more students need financial aid than did a few years ago, they need much more of it on average, and colleges have fewer resources with which to provide it, though a major expansion of the federal Pell Grant program has made up some of the difference.
''We're still seeing a tightening of the budgets, and colleges trying to find ways that they're still accessible but still stay afloat,'' said Gigi Jones, research director at the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators.
There is no sign of aid retrenchment at the handful of wealthiest colleges -- which are also among the most generous with aid -- like Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Stanford. But among the selective colleges that are not as well endowed but try to compete at the highest level in offering aid and attracting students, some have been forced to reassess.
Wesleyan, with about 3,000 students, has had the most heated recent debate over the issue, with protests by students who said a change in admissions policy would hurt campus diversity, and there have even been some confrontations between students and the university's president, Michael S. Roth. Financial aid consumes about one-third of Wesleyan's operating budget, more than double its share 15 years ago.
''I applaud the students' commitment to our values,'' Dr. Roth said. But, he added, ''I did not think that the economic model we were using would be sustainable in even the midterm, over the next decade.''
In the past, Wesleyan has decided which students to admit without considering their financial resources. But for the class that will enter next September, whose early applications the school is already weighing, that will not be entirely true. Wesleyan will take a majority of that class -- administrators estimate about 90 percent -- need-blind, and will take the rest with an eye on ability to pay, among other factors.
Almost half of Wesleyan's students receive financial aid, and college officials say that number will decline by only a few percentage points under the new policy. Wesleyan's endowment of about $600 million makes it wealthier than the vast majority of American colleges, but does not crack the top 100; it has about $200,000 per student, while some of its peers have two, three or four times as much.
While public colleges are often need-blind, few private colleges are, though experts say they know of no definitive list. A larger number of selective private colleges follow Wesleyan's new practice, filling most slots on a need-blind basis.
Colleges with need-blind admissions vary widely in how actively they recruit disadvantaged students. And need-blind admissions can become a hollow promise, because most colleges with that policy do not meet every enrolling student's full financial need -- a phenomenon known as gapping.
Only a few dozen wealthy colleges practice need-blind admissions and promise to meet full need, though they define need in different ways, and may not extend the policy to transfer students. Most colleges include loans as well as grants in their aid packages; since the late 1990s, a small number of colleges have adopted a no-loan policy, or placed caps on the amount they would ask students to borrow, but a few have since retreated from that stance.
At Wesleyan and Grinnell, administrators say that what matters most is preserving assistance to students who need it, even if that means accepting fewer of them. ''We could easily have remained need-blind, kept the label, by simply being less aggressive about pursuing diversity, or admitting people and not meeting their full need, or increasing loan levels,'' Dr. Roth said.
Dr. Kington said Grinnell would probably raise its limit on how much it asks students to borrow, and it might freeze the size of some aid grants.
Grinnell is in an unusual position. With fewer than 1,700 students, it has one of the largest endowments -- about $1.5 billion, or around $900,000 per student. But it is also unusually intent on enrolling disadvantaged students, so almost 90 percent of its students receive financial aid, an extremely high figure for an elite college.
It is considering taking the same path as Wesleyan, trimming need-blind admissions, but Dr. Kington said that was unlikely. But he said Grinnell might do more to recruit the students most sought after by top colleges, who also tend to be able to pay -- a change that if pursued aggressively could have a similar effect on the college's demographic mix.
''We want to be an access institution,'' he said. ''But we can't be only an access institution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raynard S. Kington, left, president of Grinnell, and Michael S. Roth, president of Wesleyan. For years, Wesleyan, left, admitted students without regard to their ability to pay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (79%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%)

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



2 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Combat Perk: 10% Interest

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Most of us looking for a low-risk savings account would jump at an annual interest rate of even 1 percent. So, what would you think of earning 10 percent?
That's right: 10 percent.
There is a catch, of course. Getting this rate involves risking your life in a foreign country. It's only available to members of the United States military serving in designated combat zones, including Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan and the Persian Gulf.
The rate is available through the Department of Defense Savings Deposit Program. The program, which dates to the Vietnam era, was created to "provide members of the uniformed services serving in a designated combat zones the opportunity to build their financial savings," according to a Web site maintained by Defense Finance and Accounting Service, which provides payment services to the Defense Department. 
The program caught our eye here at Bucks when it was mentioned in a publication from USAA, which provides banking and financial services for members of the military and their families. USAA says the program "can provide a welcome savings boost, thanks to a generous 10 percent interest rate earned on combat pay."
Joseph Montanaro, a financial planner with USAA in San Antonio, Tex., says the program can be a boon for service members, allowing them to earn about 10 times what their money would earn in a typical domestic savings account at current rates.
There are a host of conditions, however. To qualify, military members must be deployed in a combat zone for either 30 consecutive days, or at least one day in each of three consecutive months. A maximum of $10,000 can be deposited in the account, typically by automatic paycheck withdrawal (or "allotment," in military parlance).
The program is restricted to pay earned while in the qualifying zone. Soldiers can't deposit more than their net monthly pay. Nor can service members simply take $10,000 they had managed to save in a low-rate certificate of deposit and put it in the military program as a lump sum to earn the higher rate, said Steve Burghardt, a spokesman for Defense Finance and Accounting Service.
The funds are paid out when the combat tour is finished, he said. Money can be left in the account indefinitely -- but interest accrues for just 90 days after soldiers return from combat duty. In general, the funds can't be withdrawn until soldiers are no longer eligible for the program. If an emergency comes up, military members have to petition their commanding officer to obtain early access to the money.
And, while combat pay isn't taxable, interest earned in the savings program is.
Roughly 19,500 service members currently participate in the program, Mr. Burghardt said.
I plugged some numbers into an online savings calculator. If a soldier deposited $300 a month into the savings program for a year at 10 percent, he'd earn about $170 in interest. A 1 percent rate -- the most generous currently available on low-risk savings accounts back home -- would earn roughly $17. (The numbers may vary slightly depending on the assumptions built into the calculator used.) So the program appears to be a benefit, for those who are eligible -- and who don't need access to the money right away.
As for those of us who aren't eligible, maybe we should just be thankful that we're not.
Have you ever used the Defense Department's savings program? What was your experience?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE FINANCE & ACCOUNTING SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (90%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



3 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: An Uneven Recovery In the Cities Of the World

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
''So the last shall be first, and the first last.''
-- Matthew 20:16
SO it was in the Great Recession, according to a new survey of the world's 300 largest metropolitan areas.
None of the wealthiest areas in the world escaped the downturn, and most of them have yet to fully recover more than four years after the downturn began. But nearly half of the poorest areas never suffered any decline, and most of those that did have recovered. 
The survey, released by the Metropolitan Policy Program of the Brookings Institution, found that this year the pattern began to change. Growth rates slowed from 2011 in most areas, but the trend was less pronounced in wealthier areas. North America was the only region where more than half of the metropolitan areas grew faster than they had in 2011.
''The global metropolitan economy is fragile and many problems, like the falling euro zone and the slowdown of emerging economies, are here to stay, at least for the immediate future,'' said Emilia Istrate, an associate fellow at Brookings. ''Despite their challenges, U.S. metro economies are helping to power the global recovery.''
The survey looked at two measures of growth -- gross domestic product and jobs -- but did so in slightly different ways. It measured the change in per-capita G.D.P. but looked at total employment without adjusting for population change.
Within the United States, only three of the 76 metro areas measured are estimated to have fully recovered in both employment and per capita G.D.P. -- Dallas, Pittsburgh and Knoxville, Tenn. Within the euro zone, nearly all major metro areas in Germany and Austria have recovered, but none outside those countries have done so. Nor have any of the major British areas.
Similarly, while more than three-quarters of the 48 Chinese areas have fully recovered, if they declined at all, none of the 12 Japanese areas have done so. While growth slowed this year in China, it still dominated the list of the fastest-growing regions.
The 300 metropolitan areas in the survey are the largest in the world in terms of G.D.P. and together account for nearly one-half of global output, Brookings said. But they include just 19 percent of the world population. The 2012 figures were estimated by Brookings based on data from Oxford Economics, Moody's Analytics and the United States Census Bureau.
The accompanying charts break down the results by both wealth and region. Brookings found that 40 of the 300 regions did not suffer even one annual decline in employment or per capita G.D.P. from 2008 through 2012. Most of them were in the bottom fifth of areas, as measured by per capita G.D.P. in 2007, before the recession began. None were in the areas that made up the wealthiest half of the world.
The charts show the proportion of areas that experienced no decline, as well as the proportion that have fully recovered in both economic growth and employment and those that recovered by one measure but not the other. While most fell in 2008 and later made at least partial recoveries, there are a few, notably in Australia, that escaped pain early on but declined this year as Chinese growth -- and demand for some imports -- slowed.
This is the third year that Brookings has done the study, although it includes more areas than the previous studies did. One sad fact remained constant. Athens was the worst performer in 2012, as it had been in the previous years. The good news, if you can call it that, is that things are getting worse more slowly. Brookings estimates employment in the Athens area declined 6.9 percent in 2012, while per capita G.D.P. fell 5.1 percent. Both declines are greater than in any other area this year, but they are smaller than the ones Athens recorded in 2011.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Downturn That Hit the Rich Areas Hardest: The global recession that began in 2008 was harshest in the richest parts of the world, and skipped over a large part of the developing world. But this year, wealthier metropolitan areas have been more likely to see their performance improve than poorer areas, although much of Western Europe has continued to struggle. (Source: Brookings Institution analysis of data from Oxford Economics, Moody's Analytics, and U.S. Census Bureau.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); EURO ZONE (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TRENDS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CENSUS (73%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (53%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); AUSTRIA (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



4 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Dire Scene in Congolese City As Rebels Prepare to Leave

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- Lootings. Assassinations. A spreading sense of lawlessness.
That was the alarming picture that emerged on Friday from Goma, a rebel-held city in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, despite vows by the rebels to withdraw peacefully.
Human rights groups said that the M23 rebels who captured Goma last week were now going on an assassination campaign as they prepared to leave, creating a vortex of crime and confusion. 
''I think it will be extremely chaotic over the next few days,'' said Ida Sawyer, a researcher for Human Rights Watch.
Residents in Goma reported that the rebels were piling cases of ammunition and other looted supplies onto trucks, with some of it heading toward neighboring Rwanda, while a new letter to a United Nations Security Council committee said that the Rwandan Army had crossed the border into Congo and had helped the fighters capture Goma in the first place.
Rwandan troops ''openly entered into Goma through one of the two official border crossings,'' said the letter, which was written by Steve Hege, the coordinator of a United Nations investigative panel, and was leaked by a third party.
The panel has accused Rwanda -- with help from Uganda -- of creating, equipping and commanding the rebels. In his letter, Mr. Hege contended that once the rebels and Rwandan soldiers chased the Congolese Army out of Goma, ''these troops together took control over the entire city, marching through downtown dressed in a combination of R.D.F. and new M23 uniforms,'' using R.D.F. to signify the Rwanda Defense Force.
Rwanda has strenuously denied any covert involvement in this round of conflict. But it has sent thousands of soldiers across the border to overthrow the Congolese government at least twice in the past, justifying such actions by blaming Congo for insecurity across the region.
Some of Rwanda's staunchest allies, including the United States, have recently cut aid to Rwanda amid the allegations of meddling in Congo. On Friday, the BBC reported that the British government had suspended more than $33 million in aid, which Rwanda desperately needs to keep its government running.
Congo and Rwanda seem to be heading into yet another turbulent, acrimonious phase, with tensions growing by the day. It began this spring when more than 1,000 former rebels who had been integrated into the Congolese Army mutinied. The rebels named themselves the M23 after March 23, 2009, the date of a failed peace deal between the two sides.
Most of the rebel commanders were Tutsi, the same minority ethnic group that dominates politics and the economy in Rwanda, and many of them had fought in the Rwandan Army.
The rebels indicated this week that they would abide by a regional agreement signed last weekend to leave Goma. ''And we are continuing with that plan,'' Bertrand Bisimwa, an M23 spokesman, said Friday.
He said the rebels had begun withdrawing from Goma and planned to station all troops about 12 miles outside the city, as the agreement demanded.
But another rebel spokesman contradicted him, telling The Associated Press that the rebels would not be able to leave Goma for ''logistical reasons'' until Sunday.
Aid workers in Goma said on Friday that they could not see any sign of a rebel pullout.
''I'm not seeing big movements of soldiers,'' said Richard Nunn, a coordinator for Oxfam. ''I still see some rebel soldiers in town. It's very difficult to say what's going on right now.''
Other residents reported an increase in carjackings and break-ins, saying that Goma was becoming virtually lawless at night. Many people fear that a vacuum could open up when the rebels leave, and that the Congolese Army could be even worse.
When Congolese troops hastily retreated from Goma last week, Mr. Nunn said, ''there was a lot of rape, a lot of insecurity, a lot of extortion and some killings.''
''It was a mess, and people are worried about the same kind of thing happening when they come back,'' he added.
The deal struck last weekend calls for one battalion of government troops to return to Goma's streets and for a mixed force of rebels, government troops and a yet-to-be-named ''neutral force'' to guard the airport, from which millions of dollars in minerals is exported every month.
The rebels have clearly infiltrated the police in Goma, with officers who speak the principal Rwandan language strutting around the city last week in uniforms so freshly sewn that loose threads still hung off them. Congolese officers who had been disarmed said that only Tutsi officers were allowed to carry guns.
Most analysts believe that the rebels will officially withdraw from Goma soon, after cleaning out everything of value (there were reports that they robbed the central bank this week). Because the Congolese government is so weak and its army is in such disarray, the rebels are expected to extract a new deal that will give them top positions in the army and an even firmer grip on a large and lucrative swath of eastern Congo.
Residents said that at least 10 people in Goma had been assassinated in the past 10 days, with many more disappearances. After one magistrate was struck in the face with a machete and nearly killed last week, United Nations peacekeepers evacuated more than 20 other magistrates.
''We've confirmed several cases of targeted killings by the M23 in and around Goma,'' said Ms. Sawyer, the Human Rights Watch researcher. She said the victims included ''those who refused to join the M23 or act as informants, individuals deemed uncooperative during looting incidents, and other suspected 'enemies.' ''
The rebels have denied any wrongdoing.
Mr. Bisimwa, the rebel spokesman, said that he had heard the same accusations but that no one had offered proof.
''Where are the facts?'' he asked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rebel fighters on the move in Sake, Congo, west of Goma, on Friday. Human rights groups said the rebels were on an assassination campaign in Goma. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORAN TOMASEVIC/REUTERS)
 Rebels in the eastern hills after leaving the village of Karuba. A United Nations investigator said the Rwandan Army had helped the rebels take Goma. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MOORE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (91%) KENYA (94%); RWANDA (94%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



5 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2886 words

HEADLINE: A Hospital War Reflects A Bind for U.S. Doctors

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and REED ABELSON

 BODY:
For decades, doctors in picturesque Boise, Idaho, were part of a tight-knit community, freely referring patients to the specialists or hospitals of their choice and exchanging information about the latest medical treatments.
But that began to change a few years ago, when the city's largest hospital, St. Luke's Health System, began rapidly buying physician practices all over town, from general practitioners to cardiologists to orthopedic surgeons.
Today, Boise is a medical battleground.
A little over half of the 1,400 doctors in southwestern Idaho are employed by St. Luke's or its smaller competitor, St. Alphonsus Regional Medical Center. 
Many of the independent doctors complain that both hospitals, but especially St. Luke's, have too much power over every aspect of the medical pipeline, dictating which tests and procedures to perform, how much to charge and which patients to admit.
In interviews, they said their referrals from doctors now employed by St. Luke's had dropped sharply, while patients, in many cases, were paying more there for the same level of treatment.
Boise's experience reflects a growing national trend toward consolidation. Across the country, doctors who sold their practices and signed on as employees have similar criticisms. In lawsuits and interviews, they describe growing pressure to meet the financial goals of their new employers -- often by performing unnecessary tests and procedures or by admitting patients who do not need a hospital stay.
In Boise, just a few weeks ago, even the hospitals were at war. St. Alphonsus went to court seeking an injunction to stop St. Luke's from buying another physician practice group, arguing that the hospital's dominance in the market was enabling it to drive up prices and to demand exclusive or preferential agreements with insurers. The price of a colonoscopy has quadrupled in some instances, and in other cases St. Luke's charges nearly three times as much for laboratory work as nearby facilities, according to the St. Alphonsus complaint.
Federal and state officials have also joined the fray. In one of a handful of similar cases, the Federal Trade Commission and the Idaho attorney general are investigating whether St. Luke's has become too powerful in Boise, using its newfound leverage to stifle competition.
Dr. David C. Pate, chief executive of St. Luke's, denied the assertions by St. Alphonsus that the hospital's acquisitions had limited patient choice or always resulted in higher prices. In some cases, Dr. Pate said, services that had been underpriced were raised to reflect market value. St. Luke's, he argued, is simply embracing the new model of health care, which he predicted would lead over the long term to lower overall costs as fewer unnecessary tests and procedures were performed.
Regulators expressed some skepticism about the results, for patients, of rapid consolidation, although the trend is still too new to know for sure. ''We're seeing a lot more consolidation than we did 10 years ago,'' said Jeffrey Perry, an assistant director in the F.T.C.'s Bureau of Competition. ''Historically, what we've seen with the consolidation in the health care industry is that prices go up, but quality does not improve.''
A Drive to Consolidate
An array of new economic realities, from reduced Medicare reimbursements to higher technology costs, is driving consolidation in health care and transforming the practice of medicine in Boise and other communities large and small. In one manifestation of the trend, hospitals, private equity firms and even health insurance companies are acquiring physician practices at a rapid rate.
Today, about 39 percent of doctors nationwide are independent, down from 57 percent in 2000, according to estimates by Accenture, a consulting firm.
Many policy experts praise the shift away from independent practices as a way of making health care less fragmented and expensive. Systems that employ doctors, modeled after well-known organizations like Kaiser Permanente, are better able to coordinate patient care and to find ways to deliver improved services at lower costs, these advocates say. Indeed, consolidation is encouraged by some aspects of the Obama administration's health care law.
''If you're going to be paid for value, for performance, you've got to perform together,'' said Dr. Ricardo Martinez, chief medical officer for North Highland, an Atlanta-based consultant that works with hospitals.
The recent trend is reminiscent of the consolidation that swept the industry in the 1990s in response to the creation of health maintenance organizations, or H.M.O.'s -- but there is one major difference. Then, hospitals had difficulty managing the practices, contending that doctors did not work as hard when they were employees as they had as private operators. Now, hospitals are writing contracts more in their own favor.
''Hospitals are constructing compensation in ways that are based on productivity and performance,'' said Steve Messinger, president of ECG Management Consultants, which advises on physician acquisitions.
But the consolidation of health care may be coming at a hefty price. By one estimate, under its current reimbursement system, Medicare is paying in excess of a billion dollars a year more for the same services because hospitals, citing higher overall costs, can charge more when the doctors work for them. Laser eye surgery, for example, can cost $738 when performed by a hospital-employed doctor, compared with $389 when done by an unaffiliated doctor, according to national estimates by the independent Congressional panel that oversees Medicare. An echocardiogram can cost about twice as much in a hospital: $319, versus $143 in a doctor's office.
Conflicts over the changes are numerous. One Florida primary care physician said he could earn a $5,000 bonus for keeping patients in the hospital for less than three days, according to a lawsuit he filed this year. Hospitals, which are typically reimbursed a fixed amount of money for treating a specific illness, can make more money if patients stay for shorter periods of time.
Last month, the Justice Department reached a $9.3 million settlement with Freeman Health System, a hospital group in Joplin, Mo., which was rewarding doctors it employed partly based on how many tests they ordered. Freeman says that it alerted regulators to the potential violations and that patient care was not affected.
Recently, the Office of Inspector General at the Health and Human Services Department sent a letter to emergency physicians across the country asking for information about inappropriate admissions. Federal regulators are also examining the higher numbers of physician contracts being created, searching for violations of laws that prevent hospitals from rewarding doctors for admitting patients or for ordering lucrative tests and procedures.
Health Management Associates, a for-profit hospital chain; EmCare, a Dallas-based emergency room staffing company for hospitals; and other hospitals have disclosed that they are the subjects of federal investigations. Regulators are looking into whether the hospitals improperly pressured physicians to admit patients.
Pumping Up Admissions
According to two emergency room doctors who worked at Carlisle Regional Medical Center in Pennsylvania, the message could not have been clearer: more patients needed to be admitted.
The doctors were employed by EmCare, whose parent company was later acquired by the private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice in 2011 as part of a $3.2 billion deal. EmCare, in turn, was under contract to provide emergency room doctors for the hospital, which is owned by Health Management Associates. In interviews, doctors said that hospital administrators created targets for how many patients they should admit. More admissions translated into more dollars for the hospital.
Dr. Jean-Paul Romes, one of the physicians, recalled getting phone calls in the middle of the night questioning why he had not admitted an older patient whose hospitalization he could easily have justified. ''The pressure to admit was so high,'' he said. Dr. Romes left the hospital last year.
After another physician, Dr. Cloyd B. Gatrell, raised concerns that the hospital had too few nurses to keep patients safe, an EmCare executive warned him to ''back off,'' according to a lawsuit Dr. Gatrell filed last year. EmCare later fired him at Carlisle's request, according to the suit. Dr. Gatrell's wife, Kathryn, a nurse at Carlisle, had been fired earlier and also filed a lawsuit. Both Gatrells maintained they were fired for bringing up patient safety concerns, according to Dr. Gatrell's lawsuit.
Health Management, which operates 70 hospitals, said United States attorneys' offices in seven states were investigating physician referrals, including financial arrangements and the ''medical necessity of emergency room tests and patient admissions.''
EmCare said in an e-mailed statement that it could not comment on continuing legal matters involving it or its clients, but that its ''first concern is the well-being of the patient.''
Health Management is also the target of a suit filed last year in Florida state court by a former executive who says there were improper admissions. The executive, Paul Meyer, an officer in the company's compliance office, was a longtime employee of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He said in his lawsuit that he was fired from H.M.A. in 2011 in retaliation for raising questions about what he felt were improper admissions at four of the chain's hospitals. H.M.A. said its overall admission rate from the emergency department had remained constant in recent years and that its practices were in line with those of other hospitals. It also said there was no indication that Carlisle admitted any patients unnecessarily. Admissions are ''based solely on what is best for patient care,'' it said in an e-mailed statement.
The company said that it had addressed all of Mr. Meyer's concerns, and that he was fired for what the company said was a failure to cooperate in an internal investigation. Health Management fired the Gatrells, it said, ''for performance issues,'' an accusation Dr. Gatrell strongly denied.
Doctors at other hospitals also say they have faced pressure to meet financial targets. Dr. Manuel Abreu said his contract with All Care Medical Consultants, a practice in Clearwater, Fla., allowed him to earn a bonus as high as $5,000 if he kept patients' hospital stays to an average of no more than three days, according to a copy of the contract included with a lawsuit he filed in Florida state court this year. The parties reached a settlement and the case was voluntarily dismissed, court records show. Calls to Dr. Abreu's lawyer and a lawyer for All Care were not returned.
Other physicians say they are pushed to ignore what is best for patients by referring them to doctors working for the same hospital. Dr. Victoria Rentel, a family practice doctor near Columbus, Ohio, recalled feeling pressured when she was employed by a local hospital to send her patients to doctors there for tests and procedures.
''I routinely got reports about the money I kept in the system,'' Dr. Rentel said, detailing how much revenue she was generating for the hospital through in-house referrals. ''I tended to refer to specialists I knew who would deliver better care.'' The hospital eventually closed the clinic where she worked.
Some physicians also complain about quotas. Dr. Patricia F. White, an emergency room physician who worked at Baptist Health in Jacksonville, Fla., said that starting in 2010, her compensation was partly calculated based on the number of patients she saw an hour, according to a lawsuit she filed in August against the hospital and Emergency Resources Group, which provided emergency room staffing to Baptist.
The staffing group said it had no choice but to agree to the hospital's demands. ''If we don't comply with their wishes as good partners, there is a termination notice in our contract,'' wrote Paul Davidson, administrator for the group, in a series of e-mails that were included with Dr. White's lawsuit.
In an e-mailed statement, Baptist Health said that patients expected timely access to quality care and that an emergency room physician's ''productivity and efficiency are vital components to delivering good patient care as well as ensuring patient safety and satisfaction.'' A lawyer for Emergency Resources Group echoed those sentiments in an e-mailed statement, adding that efficiency was only one component of physician compensation.
Doctors at numerous hospitals said it was often difficult to criticize the policies instituted by hospitals or investor-owned physician groups because, as employees, they could easily be fired.
''We all have families, and we have mortgages,'' said an emergency room physician. ''If you get fired, it looks bad and it's hard to get another job.''
Rising Medical Costs
It was about three years ago that Dr. Julie A. Foote, who has been an endocrinologist in Boise for 18 years, began noticing the ads in the local newspaper.
Each week, another advertisement appeared, heralding the hire of a physician or a practice group by either St. Luke's or St. Alphonsus, which is part of Michigan's Trinity Health, one of the nation's largest hospital systems. ''The playing field wound up being divvied up pretty aggressively,'' Dr. Foote said.
In the last four years, St. Luke's acquired 22 physician practices in the area.
Dr. Mark Johnson, a family practice physician who has worked in Boise for about 25 years, was part of a five-person practice that sold itself to St. Luke's. Among the factors behind the decision were the high cost of adopting an electronic health records system, and a concern that the group members would not be able to find younger doctors willing to buy them out of the practice.
''But probably the driving reason was the changing landscape of health care delivery and the uncertainty around that,'' Dr. Johnson said. ''The thought was that we were going to be in a safer position if we were aligned and affiliated with a network.''
But as St. Luke's moved forward with its plans to acquire most of the Saltzer Medical Group -- a practice of about 50 doctors in Nampa, Idaho, about 20 miles west of Boise -- St. Alphonsus filed an injunction to block the purchase.
St. Alphonsus argues that St. Luke's dominance is hurting its business because it has experienced steep declines in hospital admissions and referrals from physicians acquired by St. Luke's.
St. Luke's says it is positioning itself to compete better by improving its ability to coordinate patient care. It recently filed an application with Medicare officials to become a so-called accountable care organization. Hospitals designated as A.C.O.'s can usually keep a portion of any savings they generate. They cut health care costs by avoiding unneeded procedures and tests or by keeping patients out of the hospital, while still meeting quality targets.
But St. Luke's remains under investigation by state and federal authorities for possible antitrust violations. While most physician group purchases are too small to draw regulators' attention, concerns have been raised about whether consolidation is resulting in higher prices and fewer choices for patients.
In 2009, the F.T.C. forced the sale of two outpatient clinics that had been acquired by Carilion Clinic, based in Roanoke, Va., saying Carilion's fee structure would have increased patients' out-of-pocket expenses for a brain imaging test, for example, to $350 from $40.
In another case, the F.T.C. and the Nevada attorney general ordered Renown Health in Reno to release 10 cardiologists from their noncompetition agreements after the hospital system bought the two largest cardiology groups in the area, giving it 88 percent of the market.
In Boise, doctors are pressured to refer only within their own system, according to St. Alphonsus in its complaint. It reported a 90 percent drop in admissions to its hospitals by physicians employed by St. Luke's. In one community, independent doctors often send patients 40 miles away for CT scans because prices at St. Luke's are 60 percent higher, the complaint said.
Mr. Pate, the St. Luke's chief executive, disputed the notion that physicians employed by St. Luke's were prohibited from referring patients to outside doctors.
''My own wife was referred by a St. Luke's physician to a St. Al's physician for her particular condition because he felt the St. Al's physician was the best for this problem,'' he said. ''If the wife of the C.E.O. is being referred to a physician at another hospital, that should prove that our physicians send many referrals over there.''
Mr. Pate acknowledged that prices for some services had risen, but he said this was only because they had been severely underpriced. In the long run, he argued, overall costs will decline as St. Luke's is better able to coordinate care, avoiding expensive emergency room visits and redundant tests.
But some people remain skeptical that patients will be better served.
''I'm not certain what all this means is that patients are getting cost-effective care, which is how the nation is painting this evolution,'' Dr. Foote said. ''If this is better quality for less price, I want to see the less price.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: St. Luke's Health System dominates the market in Boise, Idaho, and critics say patients are paying more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Dr. David C. Pate, right, chief executive of St. Luke's, says that where costs have risen, the services were underpriced before. Dr. Julie A. Foote, left, an endocrinologist in Boise, questions whether care is improving. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA ROPER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHAD CASE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHART: Declining Independence: Although the number of physicians in the United States is increasing, the percentage that remain solely in private practice is decreasing. (Source: Accenture) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); HOSPITALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TRENDS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (87%); ENDOSCOPY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); ORTHOPEDICS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); LITIGATION (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); INSURANCE (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); INJUNCTIONS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (97%) IDAHO, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



6 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: United by a Catchy Acronym

BYLINE: By IAN BREMMER

 BODY:
BRICs, the now familiar term for Brazil, Russia, India, China and the growth of their economies and influence, have formalized their club and extended their reach by inviting South Africa to join. But do their meetings and joint statements really allow them to punch above their individual weight? What do these countries share beyond a common interest in bolstering their global clout?
The most durable thing about the BRICs is the acronym itself. They cannot be ignored -- emerging markets accounted for two-thirds of global economic growth over the past five years, a figure that could rise to as much as 75 percent by 2015. But combining individual countries into classes based on catchy acronyms adds neither influence to their groupings nor insight into their futures. 
There are four main reasons why the BRICs will never function as a single coherent interest group.
First, we often say BRICs when we really mean China. In the post-World War II era, the Group of 7 major industrialized countries set the international agenda, and the United States was the driving force. But China's dominance of the BRICs is even more pronounced. With a G.D.P. of $7.3 trillion, the Chinese economy is the second largest in the world -- and larger than all the other BRICs put together.
South Africa's economy is roughly equivalent to that of China's sixth largest province. Developments inside China -- from its resource appetites and cyber capacity to its political and military might -- will drive the actions of the other BRICs. Russia, India and Brazil will be responding to China, both cooperatively and antagonistically, much more than they will coordinate with it.
Second, when it comes to their political systems, the BRICs are apples and oranges...and pears and pineapples. Brazil and India are democracies; Russia and China are autocracies.
But Brazil's democracy is much more centralized and less diverse than India's. Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous province, has roughly the same population as all of Brazil (and four times South Africa's). With more than a dozen official languages and a remarkably decentralized structure, India is a challenge all its own. It is also the least international in its outlook: despite a population of 1.2 billion people, India has about the same number of diplomats as little New Zealand.
In Russia, Vladimir Putin uses hollow democratic institutions to secure one-man rule. China's leadership is a cohesive group of party men, aligned in their most basic interests, who negotiate over the details of reform to preserve an increasingly untenable status quo rather than to undertake a large-scale overhaul. The bottom line: if you wanted to pick four major global economies with as little as possible in common in their politics, the BRICs would be a decent bet.
Third, their economic systems are wildly different as well. In Russia and China, the state is the dominant force in the economy. There are significant economic reasons for both to move away from a state capitalist system that will decay over time, but both governments have political incentives to keep things as they are to protect the near-term security of their governments. Brazil and India lean closer to free market capitalism than to the state-dominated variety.
Nor are the BRICs particularly tied to one another. Brazil has deepened commercial ties with China, its largest importer, but Russia accounted for only about 2 percent of China's trade in 2011, and China and India have no bilateral trade agreements. There are still no direct flights between Beijing or Shanghai and Mumbai. Each BRIC depends more on its ties with America and Europe than with other members of its club.
Finally, there is the difference in their most immediate needs. Russia and Brazil are major resource exporters. China, on the other hand, is the second largest importer of crude oil, and India is fourth. But beyond the competing interests of buyers and sellers, there are the frictions within these groups.
India and China are not yet seriously competing with one another for resources, but as the demographics shift in the two countries and as India becomes more urban and spends more on its infrastructure, the frictions will grow. Take water, for example: China and India are home to 37 percent of the global population, but only 10.8 percent of its water. The population will grow -- and so will strains on that water as industrialized processes and more upscale (and water-intensive) eating habits take hold.
For its part, Russia is increasingly threatened by the energy revolution taking place in the Western hemisphere. Moscow depends on oil sales for state revenue, and the break-even oil price at which Russia's budget balances has skyrocketed from $34 a barrel in 2007 to $117 in 2012. Brazil, by contrast, has enough energy to fulfill its own needs and to sell beyond its borders. As the geopolitics of energy and basic resources like food and water shift dramatically over the coming decade, differences among the BRICs will only grow.
In short, the BRICs can agree to disagree with the global status quo. They will sometimes use their collective weight to obstruct U.S. and European plans. But the BRICs have too little in common abroad and too much at stake at home to play a single coherent role on the global stage.
Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group and author of ''Every Nation for Itself: Winners and Losers in a G-Zero World.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICS (86%); BRICS COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



7 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: FORMULA ONE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Co-Founder Is Bullish on Grand Prix in Texas

BYLINE: By BRAD SPURGEON

 BODY:
Bobby Epstein is the chairman of the Circuit of the Americas in Austin, Texas, the new track where the U.S. Grand Prix was staged on Nov. 18. Epstein attended his first Formula One race at the age of 19 in 1984, in Dallas, where he was living with his family. He is now the majority owner of Prophet Capital, a private investment company based in Austin that he founded in 1995. He is also the promoter and co-founder of the U.S. Grand Prix, having signed the 10-year deal to bring Formula One to Austin this year. Despite a decades-long history in the United States, the U.S. race had not been run since 2007, at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where it had been held since 2000. The first race in Austin, won by the British driver Lewis Hamilton, was a public success, with 117,000 fans attending. Epstein spoke recently with Brad Spurgeon of the International Herald Tribune.
Q. What was the biggest challenge to being ready for the U.S. Grand Prix? 
A. The construction guys did a phenomenal job. They built everything in less than eight months. We owe so much to the work that they did. The amount of time was not a worry. They hit every deadline when they said they would. The challenges were in gathering support from so many different entities, so many moving parts to put together when you are simultaneously working with F.O.M. [Formula One Management] and with Bernie [Ecclestone, promoter of the series] and obtaining the proper contracts and at the same time balancing that with the local politics and the dynamics of working with the city, the county and the state -- they operate very independently of each other -- as well as keeping the investment teams together to get this project through.
Q. How does the city of Austin feel about the event? Has there been resistance?
A. This is where I think we have a terrific platform to build and, maybe, I think, we have the opportunity to create a better experience here than many other places, from the experience of the city standpoint. Austin is small enough to embrace the event in its entirety, citywide. And the economic impact on the city here -- if you think about bringing $200 million to $300 million to a community, when you bring it to a community this size it's a tremendous impact. If you are in a city of 3 million to 5 million or larger, it may be one of many other big events happening that weekend.
We don't have any other pro sports in Austin. This is one of the big reasons why I think Austin is really excited. I think sports are really part of the fabric of the community.
Q. When was the first time you heard of Formula One?
A. It might have been when Mario Andretti drove, when I followed IndyCar as a kid. Then I grew up in Dallas. We had an event there that was less than ideal, in 1984. Then I disconnected for a long while, until it was brought to my attention that it was possible that Formula One was looking at Austin. That was less than three years ago.
Q. Can Formula One succeed in Austin, having failed in Indianapolis?
A. That is one of the first questions I asked. Why is Austin on the radar to have an event like that ? Why does it make sense for us as a city? Why would people come here? But most of all, I think the answer to the question is in why would people come back? Why will the sport be embraced? And I think there are a multitude of reasons. I think there are a number of qualities that you need to possess and that have to work together well, and I think one without the other doesn't make a complete experience.
This track is the first one purpose-built for Formula One [in the United States]. We are not modifying a street or street circuit or an existing facility. This was built for cars and bikes of this variety. One of the things that makes racing exciting is overtaking, and we have at least four obvious areas to pass. So from the driver's standpoint, we had to say, ''Let's make a course, use the topography here, make it something unique that the drivers will walk away and say, 'That was challenging, that was exciting, I look forward to coming back.''' And it makes for great competition.
From the other standpoint -- and I think equally important -- is the fan experience. One does not come at the expense of the other, the driver and the fan experience are not mutually exclusive. I think both can have the best experience.
So we'll have some diehard, huge fans. Particularly because of our proximity to Latin America, and the influence that Latin America already has on our state. We were once Mexico, where we stand here, right now. So I think we have some amount of fans who visit; but how do we convert more into F1 fans? The on-site fan experience. I would say one of my criticisms in my previous experience is that I couldn't see a lot. At a Nascar race, you are elevated and you see so much of the racing. Clearly, the American fan is used to being able to see a race. Here, from the seats you will see 5 to 10 turns out of our 20 turns. This has been one of the most intentional parts of the design process, so that the diehard race fan comes and says, ''This is the greatest experience in the world.'' And the one who is the casual fan, who doesn't recognize how great it is, comes but they are engaged by the sport because of their experience. And beyond that, the race is part of a festival of the whole weekend. So we have really tried to create a campus here of experiences.
Q. To popularize Formula One in the United States, some problems look insurmountable, such as the fact that most of the season's races held elsewhere in the world run in the middle of the night or early morning U.S. time. And you really need a winning American driver to fire people's imaginations, don't you?
A. I heard that about this circuit even existing and getting built last fall: People said there are insurmountable problems. I saw Alexander Rossi out on the track a little while ago. I would hope that we see an American driver whether it is Alexander or others. But [the Mexican driver] Sergio Pérez, we certainly embraced him -- and if you look at the Hispanic population in Texas alone... I'm very happy for him to be -- as you call it -- an American driver, or as I might think, a North American driver. We certainly think Mexico counts. We are not far down the road. San Antonio is an hour away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%)

PERSON: BERNARD ECCLESTONE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (96%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



8 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: In Italian Ruins, New York Lessons

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
L'Aquila, capital of Abruzzo, in central Italy, is a long way from the Rockaways and Staten Island, but its struggle to recover from an earthquake may provide a cautionary tale for New York, post-Hurricane Sandy.
That earthquake, in April 2009, killed hundreds and left tens of thousands of L'Aquilans homeless, shuttering the city's graceful and extensive historic center, which was its cultural and economic heart. ''Temporary'' housing was constructed: ''new towns,'' as Italy's prime minister then, Silvio Berlusconi, boasted about the sad, isolated, cramped and costly apartments he ordered for displaced L'Aquilans along nowhere stretches of the city's outskirts, cut off from mass transit and civic life. There was no infrastructure created or public consensus reached about combating sprawl, or what to save or sacrifice and how.
Since then Italian officials have kept promising to restore the city to its former self, but fewer than a dozen buildings have so far been repaired among the hundreds damaged in the center, which is a virtual ghost town. Never a tourist mecca, despite its pretty churches and squares, L'Aquila was a working town of some 75,000, home to a university and to many families with local roots dating back to the Middle Ages. 
These days, tourists arrive to gawk at the rubble. Ruin porn has become the new local industry.
A sign of progress came in October, when President Giorgio Napolitano arrived for the opening of a new concert hall designed by Renzo Piano in a park in central L'Aquila, one of the few urban initiatives since the quake. Mr. Napolitano criticized the ''new towns'' for diverting attention and resources from the primary challenge of returning life to the city center.
The regional government has now gained control over recovery efforts from a succession of failed authorities in Rome. But magical thinking remains a problem for residents and politicians, as usual after a disaster, while memories of the quake are fading outside the region.
What's the relevance for the New York area? Notwithstanding the need for big change and straight talk in the face of hard science about rising sea levels and increasing storms, public officials have mostly followed the Italians' lead, promising devastated homeowners to reconstitute ravaged neighborhoods in harm's way. They have all but conceded that a policy of retreat and relocation is a political impossibility.
I've gone to L'Aquila several times since the quake, the first a couple of days after it struck, most recently before the opening ceremony for Mr. Piano's hall, to see it under construction and to speak with residents and the city's planning chief, Pietro Di Stefano. ''We went into a labyrinth of the absurd,'' he told me. ''We needed a new plan.''
Then he talked about retrofitting a few buildings here and there in the city center. He seemed resigned to the futility of arguing for the demolition of homes and for new construction while owners were still petitioning the state for money. That didn't sound like much of a plan to me.
I mentioned Mr. Piano's project. Conceived by the architect and his friend Claudio Abbado, the conductor, as a way to bring some culture and night life back to the center, the 240-seat concert hall links multicolored cubes, pavilions made of spruce from Trent, the northern Italian province that sponsored the project. (The hall was not quite finished for the opening ceremony and, as so often happens in Italy, was shut right afterward. There are supposedly plans to finish it and organize concerts next year.)
An anomaly in L'Aquila's historic city, the hall was partly engineered as a prototype for the sort of recyclable, quake-resistant wood construction that could handsomely and cheaply replace damaged stone houses in the center, so people might finally move back there. Per square foot, the hall cost a fourth of what the ''new towns'' did.
At the suggestion of wood buildings, Mr. Di Stefano stiffened. He started to pet the nearest stone building as if it were the family Labrador. ''Impossible,'' he said.
''This is a city of stone,'' he insisted. ''These homes were built by families here over hundreds of years, and they have their histories. What would Florence be without Giotto, or Pisa without the tower? The buildings are who we are.''
Is a city the assortment of its buildings or the life that happens in and around them? L'Aquila has fine architecture, including Baroque churches and early-20th-century Rationalist office blocks. These could be retrofitted and reopened, and a couple already have been. But it is really the public spaces -- the streets and piazzas -- that make the city special. Officials charged with saving the center, fixated on buildings instead of urbanism, seem not to realize this, and let L'Aquila die a little more each day.
And so now, in the main square, old men gather on sunny mornings, driving from miles away. They stroll the main street, as they did before the quake, then scatter by day's end to their far-flung new homes. Antonio Antonacci, a retired lawyer, chatted in the empty Piazza Duomo with three friends when I stopped by.
''It's still the only city center we have,'' he told me.
New Yorkers aren't particularly married to old stone houses. The city has a history of audacity and adaptability. Both have fueled the region's prosperity. But heedless planning in the last century has also made many people skeptical about large-scale infrastructural change.
That said, some storm-ravaged New York homeowners have already made known that they're contemplating resettling in safer neighborhoods, and Shaun Donovan, the United States secretary of housing, whom President Obama appointed to spearhead federal relief efforts after Hurricane Sandy, seems open to big ideas. A calamity can also be an opportunity, for ambitious politicians, and not least for a second-term president, now liberated to think decades ahead.
Although L'Aquila may be unlike New York in most crucial ways, its last few years suggest that a disaster doesn't just destroy homes and take lives. It tests a city's, and a nation's, imagination and capacity to change.
Follow Michael Kimmelman on Twitter, @kimmelman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The prefecture of L'Aquila after the 2009 earthquake. Rubble is still plentiful there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMUELE PELLECCHIA/PROSPEKT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Breezy Point, Queens, was devastated by fires when Hurricane Sandy hit New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%)

PERSON: GIORGIO NAPOLITANO (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



9 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: For Shares, a Flat End To a Rocky November

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks were flat on Friday as politicians remained at odds about how to settle the looming federal requirements for tax increases and spending cuts.
Trading has been choppy in the last two weeks as investors react to statements from policy makers on the state of discussions on how to avert a fiscal stalemate, which many economists say could pull the economy back into recession.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 0.29 percent in November even as it suffered a slide of more than 6 percent from the month's high to its low. 
''Given the on-again-off-again 'fiscal cliff,' it's rather surprising how resilient this market has been,'' said David Rolfe, chief investment officer at Wedgewood Partners in St. Louis.
''Between now and the end of the year, there's going to be an information vacuum outside the fiscal cliff, and I believe that resiliency will be tested.''
In contrast to the apparent calm in equities, the CBOE Volatility Index, a gauge of market anxiety, jumped 5.4 percent, its largest daily gain in two weeks.
The VIX also rose for the week, but posted a 14.7 percent decline for November.
On Friday, President Obama said a ''handful of Republicans'' in the House of Representatives were holding up legislation to extend tax cuts for middle-class Americans to try to preserve them for the wealthy.
Speaking shortly after the president, the House speaker, John Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said: ''There is a stalemate; let's not kid ourselves.''
Despite the divisive language, many market participants are betting that a deal will be struck -- if only at the 11th hour.
Corporations continue to react to what is expected to be a higher tax burden next year. Whole Foods Market was the latest to announce a special cash dividend, of $2 a share, ahead of expected higher tax rates in 2013.
On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.76 points, or 0.03 percent, to 13,025.58. The S.& P. 500 rose 0.23, or 0.02 percent, to 1,416.18. But the Nasdaq composite index dipped 1.79 points, or 0.06 percent, to 3,010.24.
For November, the S.& P. 500 rose 0.29 percent, its smallest monthly change since March 2011. The Dow fell 0.5 percent and the Nasdaq gained 1.1 percent.
For the week, though, all three major stock indexes advanced, with the Dow up 0.1 percent, the S.& P. 500 up 0.5 percent and the Nasdaq up 1.5 percent.
VeriSign shares dropped 13.2 percent to $34.15 after the company said the Commerce Department approved its agreement with ICANN to run the dot-com Internet registry, but VeriSign won't be able to raise prices as it did before.
Stock in Yum Brands, the parent of the KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut chains, slid 9.9 percent to $67.08 a day after the company forecast a decline in fourth-quarter sales at established restaurants in China.
After maintaining a close relationship for several years, Facebook and Zynga revised terms of a partnership agreement, according to regulatory filings. Now, Zynga, creator of the FarmVille online game, will have limited ability to promote its site on Facebook. Zynga's stock fell 6.1 percent to $2.46. Facebook's stock gained 2.5 percent to $28.
Apple's latest iPhone received final clearance from Chinese regulators, paving the way for a December introduction in a highly competitive market. Its stock fell 0.7 percent to $585.28.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 2/32, to 100 4/32, and its yield was unchanged at 1.61 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TAX LAW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); DIVIDENDS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); DOMAIN NAMES (61%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (55%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%); INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (50%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (55%); WFM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



10 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: A Warning For Hosts Of Airbnb Travelers

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Back in September, Nigel Warren rented out his bedroom in the apartment where he lives for $100 a night on Airbnb, the fast-growing Web site for short-term home and apartment stays. His roommate was cool with it, and his guests behaved themselves during their stay in the East Village building where he is a renter.
But when he returned from a three-night trip to Colorado, he heard from his landlord. Special enforcement officers from the city showed up while he was gone, and the landlord received five violations for running afoul of rules related to illegal transient hotels. Added together, the potential fines looked as if they could reach over $40,000.
Mr. Warren, like many if not most Airbnb users, had not read the terms and conditions on Airbnb's Web site telling him not to break any laws (while also wiping the company's hands clean of responsibility for hosts' compliance with those laws). 
So he gulped hard, begged his landlord not to evict him and told him that he would attend the mandatory administrative hearing related to the violations and pay any fines. Then, he gulped harder and hired a lawyer for $415 an hour. He also fired off a note to Airbnb, which collects the nightly fee on behalf of its hosts and keeps a bit for itself.
Given that the company knows good and well that many of the hosts on its site who live in big cities are violating the rules, he said, why not warn people more explicitly about the kind of trouble they could find themselves in? ''By ignoring local laws, you are making casualties of the very people you need to make your site a success.''
From the perspective of an Airbnb customer who needs someplace to stay -- and I count myself among the growing numbers of satisfied Airbnb customers -- its service pushes every possible consumer pleasure button.
You beat the system by avoiding high hotel rates, get to stay in neighborhoods where there aren't hotels at all and can connect with plugged-in local hosts, too.
But all airy talk in tech start-up circles of ''collaborative consumption'' and ''the sharing economy'' aside, five-figure fines and the possibility of eviction are no joke for those hosts.
In fact, local laws may prohibit most or all short-term rentals under many circumstances, though enforcement can be sporadic and you have no way of knowing how tough your local authorities will be. Your landlord may not allow such rentals in your lease or your condominium board may not look kindly on it.
Mr. Warren, 30, acknowledges that he broke the city rules and did not read his lease to see if this sort of subletting was kosher. Ignorance of the law is no excuse, even if Airbnb avoids educating the people who provide its inventory.
But one enduring mystery for him was why the city came after him in the first place. He was not renting out his bedroom all that often, after all.
Still, he was breaking the law. And that law says you cannot rent out single-family homes or apartments, or rooms in them, for less than 30 days unless you are living in the home at the same time.
Popular Airbnb markets like San Francisco and New Orleans have even more restrictive rules, and London and Paris have their own ordinances. People who want to go through the official licensing process for inns or bed-and-breakfasts have that option if they so choose.
That said, New York City officials don't come looking for you unless your neighbor, doorman or janitor has complained to the authorities about the strangers traipsing around.
''It's not the bargain that somebody who bought or rented an apartment struck, that their neighbors could change by the day,'' said John Feinblatt, the chief adviser to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for policy and strategic planning and the criminal justice coordinator. The city is also concerned with fire safety and maintaining at least some availability of rental inventory for people who live there.
Since the mayor's office of special enforcement began looking at the short-term rental issue in earnest in 2006, it has received more than 3,000 complaints, conducted nearly 2,000 inspections and issued nearly 6,000 notices of violation.
On Thursday, Mr. Warren became one of the lucky violators. He arrived on the 10th floor of a city building in Lower Manhattan expecting to take his lumps during a hearing and write a large check. Instead, he discovered that the buildings department never filed the proper paperwork with the Environmental Control Board, which runs the hearings. A clerk there dismissed all violations against him with no fines, and I could see the color coming back into Mr. Warren's face.
His complaint with Airbnb remains, though. ''They need to start being a little more responsible and acknowledging what happened and providing a warning to users,'' he said. ''They're in some kind of fight with the cities, and the users are paying the price.''
Mr. Warren happens to make his living by making Web sites easier to use, and he and I kicked around the idea of a box that would appear when you register as a host on Airbnb in certain cities where the laws are clear.
Perhaps it isn't reasonable to expect the company, which believes it's worth at least $2 billion according to a TechCrunch report on its latest fund-raising efforts, to track down every zoning law in tiny vacation hamlets. But it can certainly make the rules clear in urban areas where it knows that people like Mr. Warren could easily end up in hot water.
''I believe that any company that claims that sort of worth should have the social responsibility to disclose what the laws are in the jurisdiction that they're in,'' said Janan New, executive director of the San Francisco Apartment Association, a membership group for landlords that has repeatedly tangled with Airbnb. ''And if they're not capable of that, then their worth isn't that high.''
I asked Airbnb two questions. Why not put the warning in place that I described above? And given how many listings on the site come from hosts who are breaking the law or the terms of their lease or their condominium board rules, does it want every one of those people to take down those listings today?
Airbnb's spokeswoman, Kim Rubey, did not answer either question on the phone and e-mailed a statement several hours later that didn't really answer them either. I've reprinted it in full (and dissected it in detail) on our Bucks blog. The company is ''constantly re-evaluating how to do its job better,'' the statement said.
Or is it? Many people believe that living on the Web grants them membership in an exalted class to which old laws cannot possibly apply. This sort of arrogance takes your breath away, until you realize just how brilliant a corporate strategy it is. If you stopped to reckon with every 80-year-old zoning law or tried to change the ones that you knew your customers would violate, you'd never even open for business.
But if you can create facts on the ground -- and 200,000 listings worldwide -- then you have a constituency that is willing to lobby on your behalf. Better then, to march forward with earplugs in, blindfolds on and fingers crossed. If you hear no evil and see no evil, then you've got a fighting chance at a billion-dollar valuation as long as the regulators don't have enough firepower to slow you down.
This is all well and good for venture capitalists and start-up executives and Airbnb guests who aren't worried about underinsured hosts. But if you're a host, you need to consider a couple of things. Could you afford the kinds of fines that Mr. Warren was facing? If not, take your listing down.
Even if your guests are considerate, as Mr. Warren's supposedly were, that won't protect you. Nosy neighbors are everywhere, and if they don't like you or your music or your dog or the smells of your cooking, they will not hesitate to anonymously report you to the proper authorities the moment they spot strangers in or near your home.
Then, consider the tactics like the ones that Ms. New and her members in San Francisco are now deploying.
Their solution, in a city that has many restrictions on what sort of rent landlords can charge, is to simply evict people.
''If my building owners' goal is to make their buildings profitable, and you have rents that are capped, and you can get rid of the tenants, well, there you have it,'' she said. This seems rather harsh, I told her. No second chances at all? ''We're not in the parenting business,'' she responded. ''We're in the real estate business.''
There is no joy for someone like me, a fairly regular Airbnb customer, in pointing all this out. But when I called up Arthur S. Levine, the sergeant in the mayor's office of special enforcement who came to Mr. Warren's apartment back in September, he seemed glad to hear from me.
''If you go after Airbnb, God bless you,'' he said. ''It would make my life a lot easier.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nigel Warren faced the possibility of over $40,000 in New York City fines for violations from renting his apartment on Airbnb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The violations were dismissed because of paperwork errors. (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EVICTION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WEB SITES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (71%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (70%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); LAWYERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



11 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: In Latest Campaign, Obama Takes Deficit Battle to the Public

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Peter Baker reported from Hatfield, Pa., and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
HATFIELD, Pa. -- The blue ''Forward.'' signs with the lonely period were gone. But U2's ''City of Blinding Lights'' once again blared over the loudspeakers, and some in the audience broke into a chant of ''fired up, ready to go!''
President Obama doffed his jacket and rolled up his sleeves. Someone shouted, ''We love you,'' and he gave his typical ''I love you back'' response. Then, sounding like he was still a candidate, he said he was ''fighting'' for the middle class and called on the crowd to enlist in the battle.
If Mr. Obama's visit to a toy factory here on Friday felt like a time warp back to the campaign trail, then get used to it. The lesson he drew from four years of often-frustrating relations with Congress was that sit-down negotiations with the opposition do not work unless he turns up the public heat on lawmakers. And so, just weeks after his re-election, Mr. Obama has made it clear that the campaign will continue. 
The goal at this point is not winning re-election but instead promoting his plan to raise taxes on the wealthy and avert a year-end fiscal crisis. While House Republicans have signaled a willingness to generate additional tax revenue, they are still resisting raising rates on higher income.
Mr. Obama framed the issue in terms of extending the Bush-era cuts for families with income under $250,000, which would have the effect of allowing them to expire on income above that level for the 2 percent of Americans who earn more. Without agreement, the Bush-era cuts will expire at the end of the year for all taxpayers.
The president mentioned spending cuts only in passing, and without specifics. ''I've been keeping my own naughty and nice list for Washington,'' he told workers on a factory floor featuring a series of K'NEX construction toys assembled in the shapes of roller coasters, a merry-go-round and an American flag. If Republicans refuse to go along, he said, then everyone could end up paying more next year. ''That's sort of like the lump of coal you get for Christmas. That's a Scrooge Christmas.''
Mr. Obama's return to the hustings seemed to irk Republicans. ''Campaign-style rallies and one-sided leaks in the press are not the way to get things done here in Washington,'' the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, complained on Thursday. Hours later, Republican aides leaked Mr. Obama's opening bid in the fiscal negotiations.
On Friday, Mr. Boehner again rejected that bid, a $4 trillion, 10-year deficit-reduction package with $1.6 trillion in new taxes and $50 billion in immediate stimulus spending. ''There's a stalemate. Let's not kid ourselves,'' he said. ''Right now we're almost nowhere.''
Mr. Boehner did not offer a counterproposal, but he made it clear that Republicans stood firm in favor of extending the tax cuts across the board. ''Increasing tax rates draws money away from our economy that needs to be invested in our economy to put the American people back to work,'' he said.
With a few cracks developing in Republican solidarity, Democrats are increasing the pressure on Mr. Boehner to take up a Senate-passed bill extending middle-class tax cuts. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, called on him to schedule a vote for next week. If not, she would circulate what is known as a discharge petition to force a vote if it draws 218 signatures. That remained a long shot, but Democrats were increasingly confident they were playing a winning hand.
Mr. Obama's trip here evoked many of the atmospherics of the campaign. As if seeking volunteers for Election Day, Mr. Obama asked supporters to engage in the tax fight directly. ''I want you to call, I want you to send an e-mail, post on their Facebook wall,'' he said. The White House even set up a special hashtag word for Twitter users to express their support.
Minutes after Mr. Obama spoke at the factory, the White House sent its e-mail list a letter from David Plouffe, an Obama senior adviser, that had the tone and feel of a fund-raising letter, albeit without asking for money.
''You're changing an entire policy conversation. And we have to keep it up,'' he wrote.
''There's no denying the power of your voices,'' he added.
''Will you speak out today?''
The strategy stemmed from what the White House saw as successful public campaigns to press Congress to renew a temporary payroll tax cut a year ago and to extend lower federal student loan rates this summer. In both cases, Republicans complained that the president was more interested in campaigning than negotiating, but he ended up getting what he wanted and, in his team's view, he scored political points too.
In some ways, Mr. Obama's actions are reminiscent of those of presidents like Ronald Reagan, who went over the heads of a Democratic House to rally public support for his legislative priorities.
''Public persuasion by the president as part of Congressional negotiations can be an effective tactic,'' said Frank J. Donatelli, the White House political director under Mr. Reagan. The difference, he said, was that Mr. Obama seemed to be neglecting the negotiation side of the equation.
''Public pressure can help to close differences, but cannot be a substitute for the negotiations themselves,'' Mr. Donatelli said. ''Reagan compromised with Democrats to win his tax bills in 1981 and 1986 and in negotiations to save Social Security in 1983. Thus far, we have seen very little give in Obama's positions.''
That may change as the end-of-the-year deadline gets closer. Few people, if any, in Washington expected the two sides to show their hands so early. If nothing else, the president and House Republicans have strong incentives to fight, or at least look like they are fighting, right up until the last minute to convince their respective liberal and conservative bases that they resisted as long as possible whatever concessions they ultimately decide to make.
''In Washington, nothing is easy,'' Mr. Obama said in the one statement of the day that both sides could agree on. ''So there is going to be some prolonged negotiations. And all of us are going to have to get out of our comfort zones to make that happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama took in a toy roller coaster at a Pennsylvania plant where he rallied a crowd to support his deficit-reduction plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



12 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Simpler Taxes Now, Growth Later

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As lawmakers consider rolling back many of the $1 trillion a year in tax breaks now doled out to businesses and individuals, some are promising that streamlining the tax code will not only raise revenue, but also spur economic growth.
But a number of prominent economists cautioned that, while cleaning up the code is a worthy goal, it would do little to stimulate the flagging economy.
The kinds of changes being discussed in the heated back-room negotiations between President Obama and the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio -- raising $800 billion to $1.6 trillion in additional tax revenue, along with significant down-the-road spending cuts -- would most likely depress growth in the short term.
Longer term, economists said, streamlining the code might improve the allocation of capital enough to raise growth modestly. The overall economy might be 1 to 2.5 percent bigger than it otherwise would be after five or 10 years, translating into perhaps more than one million jobs. 
While that growth would certainly be welcome, it falls far short of claims from some tax reform evangelists, who predict that adding certainty and simplicity to the tax code would by itself ignite an economic boom.
''This religious faith that a broader base gives you a better tax system and economy is overly optimistic and simplistic,'' said Alan J. Auerbach, the director of the Robert D. Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California, Berkeley. ''I think the benefits can be overstated.''
Economists from across the political spectrum concur that the nation's complex tax code most likely hampers growth. Tax rates Americans pay are so uneven that they not only raise fairness issues, but also cause distortions in the economy, inducing financial decisions that individuals might not otherwise make, and might not be the most efficient use of capital.
Tax rates on different kinds of individual income vary by 20 percentage points. More than $1 trillion a year in breaks -- as varied as a tiny effort to aid domestic makers of toy arrows and the huge exclusions for state and local taxes -- riddle the code.
The cumulative effect of those loopholes, preferential rates and special programs distorts how investors invest, economists said. ''You put money in less-productive investments,'' said Joel B. Slemrod of the University of Michigan, summarizing the problem.
For instance, analysts say generous tax breaks on home mortgage interest encourage Americans to buy bigger and more expensive houses, with little long-term benefits to innovation and economic growth. They also believe generous tax breaks on employer-provided health care spur higher health costs overall.
The bulk of economists agree in principle in the sensibility of ''broadening the base'' -- or eliminating deductions and exclusions, to make more income taxable and allow for lower rates -- to improve the overall investment climate.
Hypothetically, economists said, the growth effects of broad tax reform could be enormous. Huge overhauls, like replacing the income tax with a consumption or value-added tax, could increase economic output in the long run by as much as 9.4 percent.
But a consumption tax has few supporters in Washington because many warn that it would be regressive, shifting too large a portion of the tax burden onto lower- and middle-income Americans. Moreover, few politicians think that Congress could agree on passing such a big reform.
In the scheme of things, economists said, the kinds of changes on the table in Washington are far too small to make much of a difference, meaning in the long run they might inject a meager-to-modest boost to growth.
''Nobody's talking about reforms that big,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Business and a top Republican economist. ''Limiting deductions to raise revenue? That's not going to raise growth at all. And raising rates would hurt growth.''
''I'm not even sure that the academic literature on tax rates and growth maps well onto what people are talking about now.''
Several experts cautioned that changes to increase taxes on investment and savings income might hurt long-run growth, even if it improved the progressivity of the code.
''There are some tax subsidies that can be reduced with little effect,'' said William McBride, chief economist at the Tax Foundation, an independent research group. But he believes that increasing taxes on capital gains and dividends -- as the Obama administration is seeking to do -- would ''significantly slow economic growth'' by shrinking the pool of money available for investment across the economy.
In the short term, policy experts expect that the combination of increased tax revenue and reduced government spending would put a drag on the economy. Both Democrats and Republicans have warned that too-steep tax increases or too-deep spending cuts might create a recession.
Nevertheless, a short-term ''down payment'' on a broader tax and entitlement reform process might sap growth in the next year or two. That so-called fiscal drag might be offset by increased business investment because of the removal of uncertainty, or a ''relief rally'' in the stock markets.
After that, any tax reform that significantly changed deductions, credits and breaks might cause economic disruption and even a little drag in the short term, economists said. But in the long term, a cleaner code that raised more money might rationalize investment decisions and aid growth, said many economists.
Besides, some economists said even small changes in macroeconomic figures could mean big changes in the lives of thousands of Americans. Edward D. Kleinbard, former director of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, said that if eliminating tax expenditures did bring a one-half-percent increase in the annual pace of economic growth it would be a significant accomplishment.
''You'd be taking victory laps,'' said Mr. Kleinbard, now a law professor at the University of Southern California. He said that the difference between economic growth of 3.5 percent and 3 percent a year means the economy would double in size in 21 years rather than 24. ''It's not earth-shattering, but it is meaningful, and there are very few things in the tax world that give you that kind of bend in the G.D.P. curve,'' he said referring to the nation's gross domestic product, or overall economic activity.
Moreover, economists point to another powerful benefit to getting the country's debt under control: investors might feel more comfortable keeping their money in American bonds, American companies and American dollars down the road.
''There would be nothing better for the economy'' than to get the debt under control in the long term, said Mark Zandi of Moody's Analytics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: R. Glenn Hubbard is the dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Business and a top Republican economist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLO ALLEGRI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (94%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); RELIGION (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



13 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Strike Shuts Down Los Angeles and Long Beach Ports

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The nation's busiest port complex remained largely shut down here on Friday as a port workers' strike dragged into its fourth day, raising fears that the work stoppage could hurt the region's economy. 
Beginning Tuesday, clerical workers from the International Longshore and Warehouse Union walked off the job at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Seven of the eight container terminals at the Port of Los Angeles remained closed Friday, as did half of the six container terminals at Long Beach, and some ships had begun to divert to other ports.
About 40 percent of the nation's imports are handled at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. An estimated $1 billion in cargo moves through the ports each day, and hundreds of thousands of jobs in the region are connected to the ports.
''Clearly there is a near-term economic impact that expands each day for longshoremen, truckers, railroad engineers and warehouse workers,'' said Steve Getzug, a spokesman for the Harbor Employers Association, which represents the terminal operators. ''Anyone connected with the shipping chain is not drawing a paycheck today, because of the actions of some of the highest-paid clerical workers in America.''
About 600 clerical workers are participating in the strike, after contract negotiations with the companies that operate the terminals stalled for more than two years. But although the number of striking workers is small, they have exerted enormous influence, largely because the thousands of longshoremen who load and unload the containers from ships every day have refused to cross the picket lines. As a result, business at the ports has ground to a halt.
Union representatives say the companies have been outsourcing clerical jobs -- which can now be done largely remotely by computer -- to just about anywhere that labor is cheaper, be it Taiwan, Costa Rica or Texas. The clerical workers struck last year but soon resumed work.
''Everyone can understand why big powerful corporations want to outsource as many jobs as they can, and pay workers as little as they can get away with,'' said Craig Merrilees, a spokesman for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. ''Workers have drawn a line in the sand to try to take on powerful employers that are sending good jobs overseas and hurting lots of communities in the process.''
Mr. Getzug, however, insisted that none of the companies have been outsourcing jobs. Because business has slowed since the economic downturn began, employees who retired have not been replaced, he said, calling the strike an effort to promote ''featherbedding,'' a practice intended to force companies to hire extra workers even when there is no work for them to do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A small group of clerical workers picketed at the Maersk cargo terminal at the Port of Los Angeles on Thursday. About 600 clerical workers with the International Longshore and Warehouse Union are on strike, and other workers are not crossing picket lines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (95%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PORT STRIKES (90%); OUTSOURCING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (98%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



14 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Considering Race and Class in College Admissions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Nov. 19 editorial ''Class-Based vs. Race-Based Admissions'' responds to the Century Foundation's report ''A Better Affirmative Action,'' but does not grapple with its central arguments. 
The editorial flatly asserts, ''It is not possible to maintain the same level of racial diversity in higher education while applying a race-blind admissions policy.'' But our analysis finds that in 7 of 10 leading universities where racial preferences were dropped from admissions, the proportion of black and Hispanic students stayed the same or increased when race-neutral alternatives such as class-based affirmative action were used instead.
The editorial cites studies suggesting that income is a poor proxy for race, which is true. But that's not what our proposals recommend. We advocate looking at a variety of socioeconomic factors that reflect differences, in the aggregate, among black, Latino and white poverty: consideration of wealth (which is accumulated over generations and reflects our history of slavery and segregation) and neighborhood poverty levels (which reflect discrimination in the housing market).
Finally, the editorial suggests that race and class should be simultaneously considered in admissions but ignores extensive evidence that, in practice, universities provide large preferences based on race and virtually no consideration to economic disadvantage. In general, only when universities are barred from using racial preferences do they actively pursue class-based affirmative action as an indirect way of attaining racial diversity.
Properly structured economic affirmative action programs can enhance diversity far beyond current programs that merely assemble college classes that may be racially diverse but are also almost uniformly wealthy.
JANICE NITTOLI RICHARD D. KAHLENBERG Washington, Nov. 21, 2012
The writers are, respectively, president and senior fellow of the Century Foundation.
To the Editor:
Your editorial makes a sound case for why it is so vital for colleges and universities to be allowed to consider race and ethnicity as factors in the admissions process, and why a class-based system would be an inadequate substitute.
As we await the Supreme Court's ruling in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, it's important to keep in mind that admissions officers balance many factors -- from individual talents and interests to academic skills and geographic origin -- in attempting to construct a diverse student body.
As the editorial notes, the Supreme Court in 2003 ruled that colleges may take an applicant's race or ethnicity into consideration to achieve the compelling state interest of increasing diversity in the student body. That pursuit of diversity is only more urgent today, and cannot be achieved by limiting our campuses to considering class instead of race and ethnicity.
ADA MELOY General Counsel American Council on Education Washington, Nov. 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); RACE & RACISM (91%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POVERTY RATES (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SLAVERY (67%); LAWYERS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



15 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: House Votes To Ease Restrictions On Visas

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A divided House of Representatives voted Friday to ease visa restrictions for a limited pool of foreign workers, previewing a fight over how far Congress should go in changing the country's immigration laws.
Leaders of both parties believe the issue will be one of the biggest they will face after the new Congress convenes in January, pitting lawmakers who want a more sweeping immigration overhaul against those who think an incremental approach stands the best chance of passing both houses.
The bill the House approved by a vote of 245 to 139 -- with just 27 Democrats supporting it -- stands little chance of advancing in the Senate, where Democrats have control. And the White House has come out in opposition to the bill, calling it too ''narrowly tailored'' and incompatible with President Obama's vision for a more comprehensive approach. 
Looming over the House vote was a stark political reality: Republicans received just a sliver of the Hispanic vote in the elections last month, and the party is divided over how best to improve its standing with such a large and growing demographic.
Some Republicans are eager to move forward with legislation that would tighten border controls but also start paving a path to citizenship for some of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in the United States, a move that could help reverse impressions among Hispanics that the party is hostile to immigrants. But many are also wary of the furor that could arise among conservative voters over any perceived softness on those who are here illegally.
Some leading Republicans have become more vocal about their desire to see immigration legislation pass, albeit in a nuanced fashion. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, published an op-ed article in multiple newspapers this week making an economic argument to pass the House bill.
''Entrepreneurship and job creation won't kick into high gear until businesses have the workers they need to drive growth and innovation,'' he wrote, ''and immigrants have always been a key part of the equation.''
The House bill, which would provide for 55,000 visas for foreign graduates of American universities who have doctoral and master's degrees in science, technology, engineering or mathematics, was an attempt to reconcile the concerns within the party. And some Republicans acknowledged its shortcomings.
''It is not the panacea,'' said Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, who represents a stretch of South Florida west of Miami. ''It does not solve all the problems. But it takes a huge step.''
Businesses, particularly technology and software companies, had pushed for the legislation as a way to help address the shortage of skilled American workers.
But some Democrats said Friday that the bill set immigrant groups against one another by deepening demographic divides.
''That is not America,'' said Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Chicago. ''There was no special line for Ph.D.'s and master's degree holders at Ellis Island.''
Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan called the bill ''a naked attempt to satisfy anti-immigrant groups.''
In the Senate, there are several different immigration proposals but no clear road to passage yet. One plan favored by Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, would start by providing a path to legal status for children who were brought here illegally by their parents.
But more comprehensive efforts have languished in the Senate ever since bipartisan negotiations between Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a Republican, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat, broke down in 2010.
But recently the two have restarted talks about a far-reaching bill that would include the House plan as part of a package that would combine enhanced border security -- a sweetener for conservatives -- with ways for illegal immigrants to become citizens.
Senate Democrats expect that hearings could begin in early 2013.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MARIO DIAZ-BALART (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



16 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Consumer Spending May Signal Weaker Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Americans cut back on spending last month while their income remained flat, a trend that in part reflected disruptions from Hurricane Sandy and could slow economic growth for the rest of the year. 
The Commerce Department said Friday that consumer spending dropped 0.2 percent in October. It was the weakest figure since May, and it compared with a 0.8 percent spending increase in September. Income had risen 0.4 percent in September.
Work interruptions caused by the storm reduced wages and salaries in October by about $18 billion at an annual rate, the government said. The storm affected 24 states, with the most severe damage in New York and New Jersey.
Consumers may also be scaling back on spending because of fears about the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect in January if Congress and the Obama administration fail to strike a budget deal by then.
''The upshot is that although both incomes and spending will probably bounce back in November, the underlying trend is weak,'' said Paul Dales, senior United States economist at Capital Economics.
The spending figures suggested that the economy was growing more slowly in the October-December quarter than it did in the July-September quarter. Consumer spending drives nearly 70 percent of economic activity.
Mr. Dales predicted that domestic economic growth would slip from the 2.7 percent annual rate in the July-September quarter to 1 percent in the October-December period. That is too low to cut the unemployment rate, now at 7.9 percent.
Income and spending gains would have been meager even after discounting the effects of the storm. Income would have risen 0.1 percent. Spending would have been essentially flat, Mr. Dales said.
After-tax income adjusted for inflation fell 0.1 percent in October. And spending, when adjusted for inflation, dropped 0.3 percent -- the biggest such decline in three years. The saving rate edged up slightly to 3.4 percent of after-tax income in October, compared with 3.3 percent in September.
Many economists say growth will rebound once rebuilding begins in the Northeast. And if President Obama and Congress can reach a budget deal, some economists, including the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, are predicting a strong year for the economy.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012



17 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Israel Advances Settlement Plan Near Jerusalem

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN and MARK LANDLER; Jodi Rudoren reported from Jerusalem, and Mark Landler from Washington. Michael R. Gordon contributed reporting from Washington; Peter Baker from Hatfield, Pa.; and Ethan Bronner from New York.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israel is moving forward with development of Jewish settlements in a contentious area east of Jerusalem, defying the United States by advancing a project that has long been condemned by Washington as effectively dooming any prospect of a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
A day after the United Nations General Assembly voted overwhelmingly to upgrade the status of the Palestinians, a senior Israeli official said the government would pursue ''preliminary zoning and planning preparations'' for a development that would limit access to the the West Bank cities of Ramallah and Bethlehem from Jerusalem to only narrow corridors far from the Old City and downtown Jerusalem. If such a project were to go beyond blueprints, it could prevent the creation of a viable, contiguous Palestinian state.
The development, in an open, mostly empty area known as E1, would connect the large settlement town of Maale Adumim to Jerusalem. Israeli officials also authorized construction of 3,000 housing units in parts of East Jerusalem and the West Bank. 
The timing of the twin actions seemed aimed at punishing the Palestinians for their United Nations bid, and appeared to show that hard-liners in the government had prevailed after days of debate over how to respond. That represented a surprising turnaround, after a growing sense that Israeli leaders had acceded to pressure from Washington not to react quickly or harshly.
The Obama administration swiftly condemned the move as unhelpful. Senior officials expressed frustration that it came after Israeli officials had played down the importance of the Palestinian bid and suggested that they would only employ harsh retaliatory measures if the Palestinians used their new status to go after Israel in the International Criminal Court.
''We reiterate our longstanding opposition to settlements and East Jerusalem construction and announcements,'' a spokesman for the National Security Council, Tommy Vietor, said. ''We believe these actions are counterproductive and make it harder to resume direct negotiations or achieve a two-state solution.''
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a Saban Forum speech on Friday night at a Washington hotel, criticized Israel's decision to proceed with plans for construction without referring to any settlements directly by name. ''These activities set back the cause of a negotiated peace,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
Israel gave the United States only a few hours' notice of the plan, and President Obama did not call Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a senior official said. For Mr. Obama, whose most bitter clashes with Mr. Netanyahu have come over settlements, the Israeli move could undermine a series of developments in recent weeks -- from the violence in Gaza to the Palestinian vote -- in which the two leaders appeared to draw closer together.
In her speech, Mrs. Clinton condemned the General Assembly vote as ''a step that will not bring us any closer to peace,'' and reiterated America's deep commitment to Israel.
''America has Israel's back,'' she said, ''and this month we proved it again.'' After listing many ways in which the United States has supported Israel, Mrs. Clinton articulated the two-state vision, what she called the need for a ''political horizon.''
''There is more the Israelis need to do,''she said, adding, ''There is still an opportunity with the West Bank Palestinians'' to have a different status quo that would be in Israel's interest.For years, American and European officials have told the Israelis that E1 is a red line. The leaked, somewhat vague, announcement of plans to proceed with building is the diplomatic equivalent of what the Israeli military did last month when it massed tens of thousands of ground troops at the Gaza border. It is a potent threat that may well, in the end, not be carried out because the Israeli government worries about its consequences.
The Palestinian Authority described the plan as ''a new act of defiance from the Israeli government.'' Saeb Erekat, the chief negotiator, said in a statement, ''At a moment where the Palestinian leadership is doing every single effort to save the two-state solution, the Israeli government does everything possible to destroy it.''
Mr. Netanyahu's office declined to comment on the zoning and construction decisions, which were made Thursday night around the time of the General Assembly vote.
Israel has long maintained its right to develop neighborhoods throughout East Jerusalem and the West Bank -- more than 500,000 Jews already live there -- and Mr. Netanyahu, responding to the United Nations speech by President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, said, ''Someone who wants peace does not talk in such a manner.''
While Israel has frequently announced settlement expansions at delicate political moments, often to its detriment, the E1 move came as a shock to many after a week in which both Israelis and Palestinians toned down their talk about day-after responses to the United Nations vote.
Avigdor Lieberman, the ultranationalist foreign minister who for months denounced the Palestinian initiative as ''diplomatic terrorism'' and said Israel should consider severe sanctions against the Palestinian Authority, had told reporters in recent days that there would be ''no automatic response.''
Mr. Lieberman, who spoke before Mrs. Clinton at the Saban Forum on Friday, castigated Mr. Abbas as a failed politician who had sought to upgrade the Palestinians' status to divert attention from an ailing economy at home.
Mr. Erekat's spokesman declined to discuss whether the Palestinians would use their upgraded status, as a nonmember observer state with access to United Nations institutions, to pursue a case in the International Criminal Court regarding E1 or the other settlement expansion.
Less contentious moves were already in progress: the Palestinian Authority has begun changing its name to ''Palestine'' on official documents, contracts and Web sites, and several nations are considering raising the level of diplomatic relations, giving Palestinian envoys the title of ambassador.
All but one European country, the Czech Republic, voted with the Palestinians or abstained in the United Nations vote on Thursday, many of them citing concerns about settlements in West Bank and East Jerusalem territories that Israel captured in the 1967 war. The settlement of E1, a 4.6-square-mile expanse of hilly parkland where some Bedouins have camps and a police station was opened in 2008, could increase Israel's international isolation.
''This is not just another few houses in Jerusalem or another hilltop in the West Bank,'' said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel and Egypt. ''This is one of the most sensitive areas of territory, and I would hope the United States will lay down the law.''
After a day in which Israeli government officials insisted that the United Nations vote was a purely symbolic one that had not changed anything on the ground, the revelation of the development late Friday stunned and outraged even some of Mr. Netanyahu's supporters.
''A number of important countries are telling us that they think it's wrong to do settlements, and these are our best friends,'' noted one senior Israeli government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of being fired. ''After they say this directly or indirectly, the immediate response is to build more settlements, even in one of the most controversial areas. E1? How does that make sense? What is the message the government is sending its best friends?''
Dani Dayan, the leader of Israel's settler movement, said the development of E1 was an ''important Israeli strategic interest,'' but he, too, was somewhat dismayed by the timing. ''We don't like the idea of developing our communities as a sort of retaliatory or punitive step,'' he said.
Shelly Yacimovich, head of the left-wing Labor Party, also questioned the strategy. ''Construction in the Jewish neighborhoods of Jerusalem is not controversial,'' she said Friday night in a television interview. ''But to do this now? That's sticking a finger in the eye.''
It is hardly the first time Israel has been criticized for bad timing on settlement expansion. In August 2011, a month before a previous bid by Mr. Abbas for upgraded status at the United Nations Security Council, Israel's Interior Ministry gave final approval for the construction of a 1,600-unit apartment complex in the East Jerusalem neighborhood of Ramat Shlomo.
On the eve of an April 2011 meeting between Mr. Obama and Israel's president, Shimon Peres, a Jerusalem planning committee gave its go-ahead for 1,000 units. And in 2010, Mr. Netanyahu was embarrassed by an early approval of the Ramat Shlomo development hours after a Jerusalem visit by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
But E1 -- where a plan approved years ago calls for 3,910 housing units, 2,192 hotel rooms and an industrial park, in addition to the police station -- is more contentious than all those projects combined. Presidents Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton have all strenuously objected to any settlement there.
Dani Seidemann, a Jerusalem lawyer and peace activist, described E1 as ''the fatal heart attack of the two-state solution'' and said Mr. Netanyahu was wielding ''the doomsday weapon.''
Still, he and others noted that the approval was only for zoning and planning, early steps in a long development process before bulldozers begin work, and could be what he called ''the dramatic flourish.''
That may be why the announcement is so vague. Turning the plans into reality is likely to take years. On the other hand, just asserting that such steps are being considered is a way of signaling Israel's readiness, after having lost a key battle at the United Nation, to engage fully in the diplomatic war over the future of the West Bank and East Jerusalem.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker at a construction site in the West Bank Israeli settlement of Maale Adumim, near Jerusalem, in June. Israel plans to link the settlement with Jerusalem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONEN ZVULUN/REUTERS) (A8) MAPS: Israel's E1 development would link several settled areas. (A1)
 The proposed E1 development area has drawn criticism from American and Palestinian officials. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); ZONING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012



18 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, Dec. 2

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner joins the Sunday shows to talk about the fight over how to avoid the looming fiscal crisis. 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner makes the rounds on the Sunday shows just a few days after Republicans resisted the proposal he presented to avert the so-called fiscal cliff. Mr. Geithner is scheduled to appear on ABC's "This Week," CBS's "Face the Nation," CNN's "State of the Union," "Fox News Sunday" and NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Fox will also feature an interview with the House Republican speaker, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, who responded to the plan by saying Democrats were not being "serious" about cutting spending.
Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will appear along with the chairs of both congressional intelligence committees - Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan - on CBS, discussing efforts to avert the fiscal crisis as well as the scrutiny that Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations, has received over the September attack in Libya.
Senator Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat, and Senator Kelly Ayotte, the New Hampshire Republican who joined Mr. Graham and Senator John McCain of Arizona in expressing opposition Tuesday to Ms. Rice's potential nomination as secretary of state, will be on CNN.
On NBC, Senator Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican, and Senator Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat, will also weigh in on the looming fiscal troubles, calling for the parties to compromise.
 Gene Sperling, the White House's top economic adviser, appears on Bloomberg's "Political Capital" and TV One's "Washington Watch." Also on TV One will be Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina.
C-Span's "Newsmakers" features a conversation with Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat.
Telemundo's "Enfoque" and Univision's "Al Punto" focus on Mexico's new president, Enrique Peña Nieto, and immigration reform in the United States. Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, will be on Telemundo, talking about the bipartisan initiative in Congress to change the immigration system.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Nov. 18
        
10 Questions for Timothy F. Geithner
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 26
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 19
        
Graphic: Looking for Allies in Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (54%) sunday shows; Clyburn, James E; Feinstein, Dianne; Geithner, Timothy F; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (79%); JAMES CLYBURN (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); LUIS V GUTIERREZ (58%); MARK WARNER (58%); KELLY AYOTTE (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (58%); MIKE ROGERS (58%); SUSAN RICE (51%) Clyburn, James E; Feinstein, Dianne; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



19 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; THE GETAWAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Test-Flying the Dreamliner

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
''HAVE you seen the toilet?'' said the man next to me. ''You have to see the toilet.''
Airplane bathrooms are hardly conversation starters, and if they are, it's generally not a conversation one wants to continue. But I had just boarded the Dreamliner -- Boeing's new 787 that is outshining its ancestors with roomier overhead bins, larger windows, power for smartphones, a quieter cabin, more humid air and, as it turns out, a toilet that's a crowd pleaser.
A vision in white, it has plastic tabs on the sides of the lid and the seat so you barely have to touch them, a sensor instead of a flush button and, according to some users, a more subdued whoosh when flushed. ''It's very refined,'' said my seatmate, Joe Nevin, a former executive at Apple turned Aspen ski pro. ''It doesn't sound like it's going to take your clothes off.'' 
Mr. Nevin was among some 200 hard-core frequent fliers on board United Airlines Flight 1807, the first North American charter of the Dreamliner. And over the course of a few days in November, they -- and I -- would flit from San Francisco to Houston to Chicago, all the while racking up miles and exploring the plane from nose to tail.
They were bankers, lawyers, programmers, film distributors, entrepreneurs and all-around aviation buffs or, as they lovingly call themselves, geeks. Most were men. All of them had signed up for a MegaDo, a retreat organized by and for travel fanatics who scour Web sites like Milepoint, particularly frequent fliers for whom it is a hobby to accrue miles and learn every last detail about their preferred airline.
The first MegaDo was in 2009. This one, Star Alliance MegaDo 4, had a European leg that wasn't on a Dreamliner and a domestic leg, and sold out in two minutes. Tickets for the United States portion were $999 to $1,999 and included meals and behind-the-scenes talks and tours with airline and hotel executives. All the proceeds go to charity. Those who did manage to score a Star Alliance MegaDo 4 ticket would ultimately fly on a Dreamliner, party in an airplane hangar, learn how to de-ice a plane, visit United's headquarters, barely sleep and consume copious amounts of alcohol.
The average traveler has probably never heard of MegaDos, but they have become so significant within the travel industry that, as one of the founders, Tommy Danielsen, put it: ''United gives us this plane a week and a half after they introduce it.''
But even occasional fliers will find themselves on Dreamliners in the coming years as more airlines integrate them into their fleets. United, the first domestic carrier to receive the Dreamliner, has two so far and at least another 48 on the way. International carriers including Japan Airlines and Air India have been flying the planes for months.
For a taste of the future, I plunked down a credit card and tagged along for the 41,000-foot high.
IT wasn't looking good. The night before we were scheduled to fly to Houston from San Francisco, Mr. Danielsen said the Dreamliner ''broke down.'' He didn't elaborate.
''We have a 767 scheduled to be here just in case the thing goes down the crapper,'' he told the crowd during a reception at the Hyatt Regency San Francisco Airport.
But the next morning at Gate 82 in San Francisco International Airport, MegaDoers were streaming onto the Dreamliner. No one looked the least bit concerned. Rather, they were pausing in the aisles for photographs as if they had never been inside a plane before.
I let their giddiness wash away my trepidation. At first, the Dreamliner's interior didn't appear to be all that different from those of other planes. But when taking in the view from my economy seat, the plane felt airier and, dare I say, almost soothing thanks to a cool indigo glow emanating from the ceiling.
LED lighting sets the mood for various phases of flight: ice bluish-purple for boarding; a dimmer version of that for cruising; deep purple for relaxing; copper during meals; dark, bat-cave blue for sleeping; and a warm blend to help wake passengers for landing. On long flights, the lighting can be used to simulate a full day to help combat jet lag.
The Dreamliner also feels more spacious, thanks to windows that are 30 percent larger than those on other similarly sized airplanes. That means even passengers not seated at a window are able to see outside. Instead of shades, there are window tints that passengers control with a dimmer button, which, for Gilles Goudreault, president of a Canadian multimedia company, are one of the Dreamliner's best features. ''You feel like it's a tomb with the shade down,'' he said. The new tints satisfy more people, preventing sunlight from blasting passengers who are sleeping but still enabling the person by the window to enjoy the view.
And then there is the new overhead bin design which, while providing more room for bags, cuts into less of the overhead space. ''I wasn't as concerned about standing up and bonking my head,'' said Joseph Winogradoff, an entertainment producer from New York.
Something else to look forward to: that high-pitched ''cheep'' sound your iPhone makes when charging. On the Dreamliner you can plug it into a USB port on the back of the seat in front of you or into power outlets beneath the seats. (There is no Wi-Fi yet.) As for the seats, they feel narrower than one might hope. Some 787s have eight seats a row in economy, but United added another seat, creating a 3-3-3 configuration. Bummer.
On the back of each headrest is an iPad-like screen. Once I managed to get the system into English (for a while I was stuck in Japanese), I found audiobooks like Joan Didion's ''Blue Nights.'' There were language-learning games in Hindi, Greek, even Malay. And the movie category had a classics section with ''2001: A Space Odyssey'' (though I question whether ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is a ''classic'').
Not that it mattered. No one watches movies on MegaDo charters. By the time the Dreamliner had reached a cruising altitude of 41,000 feet, everyone was mingling in the aisles, glass of wine or cocktail in hand. Some were wandering the rows playing Mileopoly, a game in which each person is given a card with a number on it and must then find the passenger with the matching card to claim prizes like an iPad mini.
Somewhere near row 21, I met Peter Johnson, a Richmond, Va.-area banking professional and MegaDo veteran who shared with me some Mega-don'ts.
''Do not hold up the drink cart in the aisle,'' he said. Alcohol is as much a part of MegaDos as jet fuel. At one point Mr. Danielsen's voice came over the intercom to liken the drink cart to a fire truck: we were instructed to get out of the way so it could roll to those in need. On another leg of the trip he reminded everyone that United would be taking us on tours. ''They will definitely throw you off the tour if you are hammered,'' he said.
Cocktail or no cocktail, passengers are supposed to feel better on a 787 than on other commercial airplanes. The cabin air is cleaner, according to Boeing, because of an additional filtration system that ''removes odors, irritants and gaseous contaminants'' that can bother throats, eyes and noses. Passengers may also have fewer headaches and less fatigue because the cabin is pressurized to a maximum level of 6,000 feet (2,000 feet lower than most other planes), allowing the blood to absorb more oxygen. And fewer people are likely to experience motion sickness because of ''smoother ride'' technology designed to sense and counter turbulence.
Neither I nor anyone I interviewed noticed these nuances, though we suspected they would be more apparent on longer flights.
Upon landing in Houston, we posed for photographs beneath the plane's belly, felt the heat waft off its engines, and climbed atop its mighty wheels. In a nearby hangar, there was Texas barbecue and a band. Almost no one slept more than three hours before we were back on the Dreamliner, bound this time for Chicago.
On our last day together we gathered at United's headquarters there to hear its chief executive, Jeff Smisek, discuss the business and whether he actually drinks the airplane coffee (he does). In a conference room, I stood with Mr. Goudreault, Larry Gitnick of CBC News in Canada, and Daniel Metziga of Oregon Public Broadcasting. We were bleary. We were rumpled. We were discussing how insane it was to fly every day and be out of touch with the world thousands of feet below. But, Mr. Goudreault said, it is also wonderful. A boyish grin broke across his face and infected the rest of us. We raised our foam coffee cups and gently pressed them together.
''To jet-setting,'' we said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A United Airlines Boeing 787 on its first scheduled commercial flight on Nov. 4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC KAYNE/HOUSTON CHRONICLE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (TR1)
Frequent fliers were aboard the first North American charter of United's Boeing 787 Dreamliner. They celebrated on board and in a hangar after landing, and made use of larger overhead bins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 UNITED AIRLINES) (TR3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SMARTPHONES (71%); TRAVEL AGENTS (65%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



20 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vs. Obama On the Deficit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While reading ''Slugging It Out, Inside Obama's Mind'' (Economic View, Nov. 25), I was struck more by what was missing than by what was in it. 
In the column, N. Gregory Mankiw imagined a discussion between a ''moderate'' President Obama and a ''liberal'' President Obama about the federal deficit. On the revenue side of the equation, however, the hypothetical debaters argued only about personal income taxes. Other, non-personal sources of potential tax revenue -- whether from eliminating billions of dollars' worth of corporate tax credits, loopholes or farm subsidies, for example -- were not even mentioned.
If Congress doesn't consider the full panoply of revenue alternatives as it approaches the fiscal cliff, it will be forced to make deeper-than-necessary cuts to programs that benefit the needy and the deserving, such as Medicaid and education.
Peter A. Wadsworth
East Hampton, N.Y., Nov. 26
*
To the Editor:
In the column's imaginary debate, the ''liberal'' President Obama notes one economist's calculations that the top tax rate should be 73 percent -- and says later that ''we don't have to go that far.''
Still, it's an exaggeration to include such talk. The president has been interested in raising top rates on high-income Americans to nothing above 39.6 percent, what they were before the tax cuts of George W. Bush.
If there is a debate going on inside the president's mind, it is not that of a liberal versus a moderate, but that of a ''determined moderate'' versus a ''yielding moderate.'' I am rooting for the determined side.
Albert J. Sumell
Youngstown, Ohio, Nov. 26
The writer is an associate professor of economics at Youngstown State University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); MEDICAID (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



21 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Storm Charity: 15% of What?

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
In 1983, Jerry Welsh, an executive vice president at American Express, observed from his Lower Manhattan office that the Statue of Liberty was undergoing a major renovation. Within a short time, the company inaugurated an advertising campaign promoting its interest in the project: For every new credit card application, American Express would donate one dollar to the statue's restoration; for every transaction, it would contribute one penny. Eventually, the effort raised $1.7 million. As Mara Einstein, a professor of marketing at Queens College, explains in her recent book, ''Compassion Inc: How Corporate America Blurs the Lines Between What We Buy, Who We Are and Those We Help,'' this was essentially the beginning of what is known as cause marketing.
That the practice has found some of its most aggressive expression in the aftermath of natural disasters is surely obvious to anyone who has observed the second and third chapters of Hurricane Sandy, as businesses have gone about the yoked work of advancing their interests while igniting charitable impulses, occasionally to unseemly, or at the very least, utterly confounding, effect. Last week, for instance, an obscure company called VenueBook, which offers online party planning, announced that from now through Dec. 31, it would donate 15 percent of its ''proceeds'' to City Harvest, which has worked to help feed storm victims. 
''For New Yorkers hosting holiday parties, this is the best way to give back to those in need after Sandy,'' VenueBook's chairman, Kelsey Recht, said in a news release, providing no apparent basis for the claim. As it happens, VenueBook is giving a percentage of the commission it receives from the event sites to City Harvest, but there is no real indication that using the company as a charitable pipeline would be more beneficial than discreetly asking every guest at your buffet table to please put $5 in a ceramic Santa that could then be sent to a relief agency.
The offer of a donation made in terms of a percentage of proceeds has become a familiar pitch, and it is one that arouses the profound irritation of people like Professor Einstein and the economist Patrick M. Rooney, monitors of the philanthropic world, precisely because the phrase itself is subjective and vague. (In the case of an operation like VenueBook, it is especially so, because the event-planning service is free to consumers.) Generally, ''proceeds'' could refer to a percentage of sales, or a percentage of profits or perhaps whatever an organization has decided it ought to mean.
For its Concert for Sandy Relief, to be held at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 12, the Robin Hood Foundation says in its promotion that ''net proceeds'' from the event will go to its relief fund. While there is, despite the temptation, very little cause to be cynical of such an affair -- the foundation, the hedge fund industry's successful charity to combat poverty in New York City, has already provided more than $8 million in grants to 90 groups assisting hurricane victims -- the term ''net proceeds,'' still fails to convey what a ticket buyer might actually be giving. It seems more specific, but it really isn't. Not knowing what it costs to produce the event, you have no idea whether it would be more efficient to write a check for $200 to a charity and stay home.
Similarly, if you went to the clothing sale held by the Council of Fashion Designers of America last month to benefit storm victims, where 100 percent of net proceeds went to the Mayor's Fund to Advance New York City, you would have had little idea what the size of your contribution was, unless you were given spreadsheets from Marc Jacobs or Alexander McQueen or Chloé delineating exactly how much was spent to produce the sweaters you were buying.
By measure of transparency, something along the lines of what the Brooklyn restaurant Junior's has done is laudable: It donated $5 of every pumpkin cheesecake it sold this fall to the Brooklyn Community Foundation, which has raised $1.5 million to date for those affected by the storm.
The risk with this sort of consumer altruism, of course, is that it alleviates us of responsibility -- we feel we've done good by purchasing a dessert or a tank top or yoga class when we might have done considerably better. What is most noteworthy about the charitable efforts surrounding Hurricane Sandy is that while they seem to have infiltrated nearly every aspect of our consumer lives, they haven't raised all that much money in relative terms.
According to data from Indiana University's Center on Philanthropy, three weeks after the storm, $219 million had been collected. Comparatively, at the same point, after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, $1.3 billion had been raised; at the same point after the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, $610 million. The figure for the 2010 earthquake in Haiti was $752 million.
One explanation for this disparity is that donors presumably have been less moved to help victims who seem largely middle class and white -- the residents of Staten Island, Breezy Point in Queens and the Jersey Shore -- than they were to assist broader communities of the poor in New Orleans and abroad. Companies that make too big a show of ginning up money for Hurricane Sandy actually risk seeming exploitive in the name of the cause that has less support than they might have imagined. It hardly has to be said that there is enormous need in this city, and everywhere, including repairing the ravages of the storm. It doesn't take a weatherman to see which way the misery goes.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHARITABLE PIPELINES: Above, donations in the Rockaways in Queens. A concert for Hurricane Sandy victims this month at Madison Square Garden, will donate its ''net proceeds.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES
 BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (84%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



22 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Secure Border Crimps Commerce Along It

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Brenna Rae Goth contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DOUGLAS, Ariz. -- When the copper smelters closed, the jobs dried up and the people who used to sustain the small shops along this border city's commercial strips left to find work elsewhere, the Ortega family looked toward the neighbor to the south, Agua Prieta, Mexico, for a new clientele.
For decades, catering to Mexicans had been a reliable business plan for the Ortegas and many other store owners here, a multigenerational band of believers who have been around too long to give up. But the tight border enforcement prompted by the Sept. 11 attacks -- and amplified by the harsh realities and language of drug violence and illegal immigration -- gradually made it harder to get across the border legally, then too much of a bother, and finally a discomfiting waste of time. 
Like the copper smelter workers, the Mexicans, little by little, also began to disappear.
An unforgiving blow came about two years ago, when the American government stopped issuing visas in Agua Prieta, forcing whoever wanted them to travel 115 miles to Nogales, a costly undertaking for Mexicans relying on lean monthly salaries to survive.
''I understand the need for securing our border,'' said Bill Thomas, 64, who runs Thomas Home Furnishings, a store his father founded 59 years ago, 11 blocks from a port of entry now so fortified and congested that the city had to build a road to steer the lines of idling cars waiting to get across away from local streets. ''But what we've done is, we've shut out the honest guy.''
The feeling is the same along much of the Mexican border in Arizona, where an imposing wall of corrugated steel disconnects main streets, shared histories and binational family ties. It has also begun to seep deeper, among business owners and elected officials inside a state known for its iron-fisted approach to illegal immigration.
The Metropolitan Tucson Convention and Visitors Bureau has been running a media campaign in the Mexican border state of Sonora and its neighbor to the south, Sinaloa, to dispel any notions that Arizona is unwelcoming.
(After Arizona passed its strict immigration law in 2010, the Mexican government issued a warning to its citizens, telling them to assume that they could be ''harassed and questioned'' in Arizona ''at any time.'')
On Nov. 16, Tucson's mayor, Jonathan Rothschild, made his first official trip to Nogales, Mexico, to visit a port of entry that is under expansion and for which he has lobbied for an increase in staffing. At a meeting in October, mayors in the economic development committee at the Maricopa Association of Governments, a regional planning group based in Phoenix, embraced a unifying slogan: ''We're all border communities.''
''Mexicans spend about $2 billion a year in Arizona,'' said the committee's chairman, Thomas L. Schoaf, the mayor of Litchfield Park, a suburb of Phoenix. ''They go to the Biltmore'' Fashion Park, an upscale mall in Phoenix, and ''they go to Flagstaff.''
About 21 million Mexicans cross legally into Arizona every year, Mr. Schoaf said; in Santa Cruz County, which runs along the border, their spending accounts for 40 percent of the sales tax revenue. ''A significant part of our economic vitality is related to people who cross the border,'' Mr. Schoaf said, ''so we need to make the crossing more efficient.''
Erik Lee, the associate director of the North American Center for Transborder Studies at Arizona State University, said old infrastructure and inadequate staffing were largely to blame for the costly and unpredictably long waits at border crossings. While the number of Border Patrol agents has virtually doubled since 2004, to 23,306 from 11,684, the number of customs inspectors, who operate the ports of entry, increased by only 12 percent, to 21,893 from 19,525, according to federal statistics.
On average, it took 66 minutes to cross the border from Nogales, Mexico, to Nogales, Ariz., in 2008, costing the regional economy about $200 million, according to estimates compiled by Mr. Lee and Christopher E. Wilson of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Projections by the Commerce Department say the average time to get through ports of entry into the United States will rise to 99 minutes by 2017, a delay the department estimates could cost a total of $12 billion for the economies on the two sides.
Looking at his electronic ledger, Josué Lopez, who runs Casa Enrique Uniforms here, a store that his father, who was born in Agua Prieta, bought 39 years ago, said, ''There's a lot of money being lost in the name of security.''
His business depends heavily on Mexican customers: schools require uniforms, which Mr. Lopez sells, along with the uniforms used by many of the factory and medical workers on the other side of the border. Things were going well until three years ago, he said, but then a lot of his customers stopped coming as their visas expired.
In 2010, sales were down 23 percent, and though there was a small recovery last year, he said it was only because ''we slimmed down the business and started focusing on the top products that we knew would move.''
In March, voters in this city of barely 18,000 residents elected Danny Ortega Jr., a third-generation Ortega running the family's shoe and clothing stores, as mayor. He was ''someone we thought could understand what we're going through,'' Mr. Lopez said.
Mr. Ortega, 50, took office in June, bent on finding a lifesaver for his and Douglas's future. He hired a consultant from Phoenix to push the federal government for changes: an extra southbound lane at the border crossing, which opened on Nov. 16, and a dedicated lane for prescreened drivers and pedestrians, which has yet to happen.
''Let's not be so regimented and look at every person coming in from Mexico as someone who's going to commit a crime,'' said Mr. Ortega, who left I.B.M. after 23 years to help his father and siblings run the family business. ''Our financial sustainability is dependent on them.''
He hired a bilingual city manager, and he has reached out to the mayor of Agua Prieta, Irma Villalobos Terán, to figure out ways to cooperate, regardless of federal policies beyond their control. They also joined a meeting in October hosted by the Mexican consul in Douglas, Oscar Antonio de la Torre Amezcua, to discuss ways to promote shopping tourism on both sides of the border.
''We either help ourselves,'' Mr. Ortega said, ''or we will die.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Agua Prieta, Mexico, on the left above, has a main street directly south of the border fence that is active with people and businesses. On the north side, Douglas, Ariz., left, has businesses that have struggled or failed, particularly since the American government stopped issuing visas in Agua Prieta about two years ago. (A23)
 Mayor Danny Ortega Jr. of Douglas, Ariz., has reached out to Irma Villalobos Terán, his counterpart in Agua Prieta, Mexico, to figure out ways to cooperate, regardless of federal policies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMANTHA SAIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TERRORISM (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (67%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (96%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



23 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Advertisement Makes Fans' Dreams a Reality

BYLINE: By BEN STRAUSS

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- During television broadcasts of the Chicago Bulls this season, the most riveting sequence has often come during a break in the action. One commercial, in particular, teases viewers, almost like a parlor trick. It starts with an announcer's agony.
''Holding onto his knee, and down,'' is the distressed call. 
The ad flashes to the anguish of a player, Derrick Rose, sprawled on the floor. Then it pans to scenes of a city's pain -- apocalyptic Chicago with traffic stopped and newspapers fluttering through the streets. In rhythm with Rose's rehabilitation in the weight room, the city comes back to life. The climax is his triumphant return to the court.
The commercial is part of a campaign by Adidas called ''The Return,'' chronicling Rose's recovery from the torn anterior cruciate ligament he sustained during the first round of last season's N.B.A. playoffs. But when the ad ends, fantasy's narrative gives way to the incomplete story arc of reality. The Bulls are a .500 team, and Rose remains months from a return to the court.
''I can see how it can be mind-boggling for fans to go from seeing the commercial and he's back, and then the game is back and he's not,'' said Reggie Rose, Derrick's brother and manager. ''Right now, that's how it is, but he's working to get there.''
Rose, a Chicago native, turned 24 in October. He was the league's most valuable player in 2010-11 and led the Bulls to the top seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs each of the last two seasons. By all accounts, his rehabilitation has been smooth, and most estimates place his return sometime after the All-Star break in February. But until Rose returns, his career, his team -- and, yes, his sponsor -- are in limbo, hoping to follow the script that has been written.
In February, Adidas signed Rose to what has been called a lifetime contract, reportedly worth $260 million over 14 years. Two months later, Rose's knee gave out, leaving the two to face the prospect of the newly minted superstar's spending a year out of the spotlight and off the league's radar.
Adidas executives were on the phone within minutes of the injury and had the proposal for a behind-the-scenes documentary in front of Rose a few days later. It became six short Internet videos (the first was released in August) with inspirational titles like ''Rise'' and ''Hope,'' as well as the commercial.
''No one has ever done anything like this,'' said Lawrence Norman, Adidas's vice president for global basketball.
Adidas also released a new line of Rose shoes over the summer. At its debut, Rose broke down in tears, overcome by the good fortune of a South Side kid made good. Rose was known as an introvert before the injury, but in the serial -- spliced between footage of him in the gym -- Rose talks intimately about family, basketball and his hometown.
''It's the most he's ever talked on film, and that's what intrigued people,'' Reggie Rose said. ''You have to keep the athlete relevant. We can't be asking, Whatever happened to Derrick Rose?''
The scene in the commercial in which Rose returns to the court was filmed at the United Center. Rose walks through the tunnel, hugs his brother and enters the arena with fans, brought in for the shoot, cheering. It has a surreal quality: part simulation, part dream.
''It felt unreal, man, just walking out there,'' Rose says in one of the videos. ''Shaking everybody's hand. It felt like an actual game.''
Bulls forward Taj Gibson said: ''It's a description of how it's going to look when he comes back. That's a good thing.''
The campaign has been a hit, drawing attention on local and national N.B.A. shows and digitally. The videos have more than five million views on YouTube, and according to Twitter, the hashtag #thereturn has been used more than 200,000 times since Aug. 1.
On the court, the Bulls have been less fortunate early in the season. Rose signed a five-year, $95 million extension last year, and the franchise was decidedly in win-now mode, surrounding him with a talented supporting cast and one of the league's best benches. The off-season, though, was an exercise in caution and luxury tax economics. Nearly the entire bench was dismantled and replaced by cost-effective veterans.
''You build your franchise around your superstar players, around the cornerstone of your franchise, and then all of a sudden something bad happens,'' said Stacey King, the former Bull who is a television announcer. ''There's no planning for that. It's a big difference around here. Derrick brings so much energy and so much excitement, and that's gone.''
That buzz that surrounded the Bulls of previous seasons was pronounced enough to recall the glory days of the Michael Jordan era. Through Friday, they were 7-7, with the season's lowlight coming last week when the Bulls blew a 27-point second-half lead to the Milwaukee Bucks at home. Offense has been hard to come by without Rose, and the Bulls rank 23rd in the league in points.
''We feel we've got a good team and we've got a large window of opportunity to have plenty of success,'' General Manager Gar Forman said.
Coach Tom Thibodeau prefers to keep the focus on the players he has available, while Rose splits his rehabilitation time between Los Angeles and Chicago. When in town, though, Rose works out with the team at its suburban headquarters, watches practices and can be spotted, on occasion, in the United Center.
Before Wednesday night's game, Rose was walking through the hallway outside the Bulls' locker room when an acquaintance called to him, checking in for a status update: ''You good?''
''Yeah,'' Rose replied.
Several hours later, after the Bulls completed a 101-78 victory over the Dallas Mavericks, Rose was out of sight. But his presence loomed.
''This is his city,'' guard Richard Hamilton said. ''He's always here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adidas created a commercial that imagines Derrick Rose's return to the Bulls from injury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADIDAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); ATHLETES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



24 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
An article last Sunday about the deepening humanitarian crisis facing Syrians displaced by the conflict as winter approaches referred incompletely to the amount of aid donated by the United States and Britain. The donations cited in the article, $8.5 million and $7.8 million respectively, were made through the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. But the United States has spent a total of slightly less than $200 million, according to the Agency for International Development, while Britain has committed more than $85 million, according to the Foreign Office. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); REFUGEES (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



25 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: How Capitalist Are the Cubans?

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE. 
A New York Times correspondent based in Mexico City.

 BODY:
HAVANA
IT was just a small sign, red, round and electrified, advertising homemade pizza -- the kind of thing no one would notice in New York or Rome. But in Havana? It was mildly amazing.
Cuba, after all, has been dominated for decades by an all-consuming anticapitalist ideology, in which there were only three things promoted on billboards, radio or TV: socialism, nationalism, and Fidel and Raúl Castro. The pizza sign hanging from a decaying colonial building here represented the exact opposite -- marketing, the public search for private profit.
And it wasn't just tossed out there. Unlike the cardboard efforts I'd seen in the same poor neighborhood on a visit to Cuba last year, the sign cost money. It was an investment. It was a clear signal that some of Cuba's new entrepreneurs -- legalized by the government two years ago in a desperate attempt to save the island's economy -- were adapting to the logic of competition and capitalism.
But just how capitalist are Cubans these days? Are they embracing what Friedrich Hayek described as the ''self-organizing system of voluntary cooperation,'' or resisting? 
''It's a combination,'' says Arturo López Levy, a former analyst with the Cuban government now a lecturer at the University of Denver. ''When more people get more proactive and more assertive, then other people -- whether they like it or not -- have to do the same. They have to compete. I think that's the dynamic.''
Indeed, like Iraq, Russia, Mexico or other countries that experienced decades of dictatorial rule that eventually ended, Cuba today is a society marked by years of abuse, divided and uncertain about its future. The changes of the past few years -- allowing for self-employment, freer travel, and the buying and selling of homes and cars -- have been both remarkable and extremely limited. The reasons small things like signs matter so much here is because everyone is concerned with momentum, and no one seems to know whether Cuba is really on the road to capitalism, as The Economist asserted in March, or if the island is destined to simply sputter along, with restrained capitalism for a few and socialist subsistence for the rest.
The debate is all the more complicated because the same leaders who rejected capitalism for so long are now the ones trying to encourage people to try it out. Raúl Castro was notoriously the revolution's most loyal Communist; now, as the country's president, he is the main booster for free market reforms. On one hand, a recent gathering of Cuba's Communist Party earlier this year included a session on overcoming prejudices against entrepreneurs; on the other, Raúl Castro has said he would ''never permit the return of the capitalist system.''
''They are kind of schizophrenic,'' says Ted Henken, a Cuba expert at Baruch College. ''They are saying they are changing, but they treat these things as gifts and not as rights.''
And yet, there is no longer any denying that pockets of controlled capitalism are emerging in Cuba. In Havana, in particular, small businesses are everywhere. Entire urban industries, including taxis and restaurants, are being transformed through a rush of new entrants, who are increasing competition for customers, labor and materials. Even the most elemental tasks that used to be managed by the state -- such as buying food -- are increasingly in the hands of a private system that sets its own prices based on supply and demand.
Though the initial burst of activity has slowed, some experts say the explosion in commerce showed just how capitalist Cubans were all along. Of the roughly 350,000 people licensed to be self-employed under the new laws by the end of 2011, 67 percent had no prior job affiliation listed -- which most likely means they were running underground businesses that then became legitimate.
Some of the most successful entrepreneurs are optimistic about Cuba's becoming more open to free market ideas. Héctor Higuera Martínez, 39, the owner of Le Chansonnier, one of Havana's finest restaurants (the duck is practically Parisian), says that officials are ''starting to realize there is a reason to support private businesses.'' He has given people work, for example, and he brings in hard currency from foreigners, including Americans.
''Before, we had nothing,'' he said. ''Now we have an opportunity.''
He is doing everything he can to make the most of it. When we met one night at the restaurant, he had already written up several pages of notes and charts explaining what his industry needed to grow -- from wholesale markets to improved transportation for farmers to an end to the American trade embargo to changes in the Cuban tax code. In an ingeniously cobbled-together kitchen, in which only one of three ovens worked, he mostly seemed to salivate at the thought of vacuum packing so his meals could be delivered more efficiently.
HE was about as capitalist as it gets. But will his ideas ever be adopted? Like everyone else, he faces severe limits. He can hire no more than 20 employees, for example. He does not have access to private bank loans, and the government has shown little inclination to let people like Mr. Higuera succeed on a grand scale.
Instead, when success arrives, the government seems to get nervous. This past summer, officials shut down a thriving restaurant and cabaret featuring opera and dance in what had been a vacant lot, charging the owner with ''personal enrichment'' because he charged a $2 cover at the door. A news article from Reuters had described it as Cuba's largest private business. A few days later, it was gone, along with 130 jobs.
The Castro government has tried to keep a lid on innovation in other ways, too. It has not allowed professionals like lawyers and architects to work for themselves. And its efforts at political repression have focused over the past few years on innovative young people seeking space for civil discourse in public and online -- the blogger Yoani Sánchez, or Antonio Rodiles, director of an independent project called Estado de Sats, who was arrested in early November and released last week after 18 days in jail.
So for now, what Cuba has ended up with is handcuffed capitalism: highly regulated competitive markets for low-skilled, small family businesses. What economic freedom there is has mostly accrued to those whose main ambition is making and selling pizza.
Which again raises the question: is Cuba really heading toward capitalism or not? Skeptics are easy to find. ''Every place in the world that has had real change, it has changed because the regime itself has allowed some significant openings and the door has been pushed wide open,'' says Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. ''That's not what's happening here.''
Many Cubans say they are hesitant to let go of a reliable system summed up by a common joke: ''We pretend to work, they pretend to pay us.'' Taxi drivers told Mr. López Levy that they were working harder for less money because of increased competition. A farmer I met at the wholesale market outside Havana equated capitalism with higher prices, and said that the government needed to intervene.
But mostly, this is an aging crowd and Mr. López Levy -- who still has friends and relatives in government -- says that even among Cuban bureaucrats, the mentality is changing. If so, more capitalism may be inevitable. Because with every new entrepreneur it licenses, Cuba becomes less socialist, less exceptional, less of a bearded rebel raising its fist against the horrors of Yankee capitalism. In the eyes of some Cubans, the jig is already up.
''The government has lost the ideological battle,'' said Óscar Espinosa Chepe, a state-trained economist who was sent to jail in 2003 for criticizing the government. ''The battle for ideas was the most important battle, and they've lost.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above right, a market sells dresses and other items in Havana. Right, a man in his shoe repair shop in the doorway of his home. New business regulations have allowed thousands of citizens to make money for themselves for the first time since 1959. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG KAHN/GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



26 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: More Babies, Please

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
IN the eternally recurring debates about whether some rival great power will knock the United States off its global perch, there has always been one excellent reason to bet on a second American century: We have more babies than the competition.
It's a near-universal law that modernity reduces fertility. But compared with the swiftly aging nations of East Asia and Western Europe, the American birthrate has proved consistently resilient, hovering around the level required to keep a population stable or growing over the long run. 
America's demographic edge has a variety of sources: our famous religiosity, our vast interior and wide-open spaces (and the four-bedroom detached houses they make possible), our willingness to welcome immigrants (who tend to have higher birthrates than the native-born).
And it clearly is an edge. Today's babies are tomorrow's taxpayers and workers and entrepreneurs, and relatively youthful populations speed economic growth and keep spending commitments affordable. Thanks to our relative demographic dynamism, the America of 50 years hence may not only have more workers per retiree than countries like Japan and Germany, but also have more than emerging powers like China and Brazil.
If, that is, our dynamism persists. But that's no longer a sure thing. American fertility plunged with the stock market in 2008, and it hasn't recovered. Last week, the Pew Research Center reported that U.S. birthrates hit the lowest rate ever recorded in 2011, with just 63 births per 1,000 women of childbearing age. (The rate was 71 per 1,000 in 1990.) For the first time in recent memory, Americans are having fewer babies than the French or British.
The plunge might be temporary. American fertility plummeted during the Great Depression, and more recent downturns have produced modest dips as well. This time, the birthrate has fallen fastest among foreign-born Americans, and particularly among Hispanics, who saw huge amounts of wealth evaporate with the housing bust. Many people may simply be postponing childbearing until better times return, and a few years of swift growth could produce a miniature baby boom.
But deeper forces than the financial crisis may keep American fertility rates depressed. Foreign-born birthrates will probably gradually recover from their current nadir, but with fertility in decline across Mexico and Latin America, it isn't clear that the United States can continue to rely heavily on immigrant birthrates to help drive population growth.
Among the native-born working class, meanwhile, there was a retreat from child rearing even before the Great Recession hit. For Americans without college degrees, economic instability and a shortage of marriageable men seem to be furthering two trends in tandem: more women are having children out of wedlock, and fewer are raising families at all.
Finally, there's been a broader cultural shift away from a child-centric understanding of romance and marriage. In 1990, 65 percent of Americans told Pew that children were ''very important'' to a successful marriage; in 2007, just before the current baby bust, only 41 percent agreed. (That trend goes a long way toward explaining why gay marriage, which formally severs wedlock from sex differences and procreation, has gone from a nonstarter to a no-brainer for so many people.)
Government's power over fertility rates is limited, but not nonexistent. America has no real family policy to speak of at the moment, and the evidence from countries like Sweden and France suggests that reducing the ever-rising cost of having kids can help fertility rates rebound. Whether this means a more family-friendly tax code, a push for more flexible work hours, or an effort to reduce the cost of college, there's clearly room for creative policy to make some difference.
More broadly, a more secure economic foundation beneath working-class Americans would presumably help promote childbearing as well. Stable families are crucial to prosperity and mobility, but the reverse is also true, and policies that made it easier to climb the economic ladder would make it easier to raise a family as well.
Beneath these policy debates, though, lie cultural forces that no legislator can really hope to change. The retreat from child rearing is, at some level, a symptom of late-modern exhaustion -- a decadence that first arose in the West but now haunts rich societies around the globe. It's a spirit that privileges the present over the future, chooses stagnation over innovation, prefers what already exists over what might be. It embraces the comforts and pleasures of modernity, while shrugging off the basic sacrifices that built our civilization in the first place.
Such decadence need not be permanent, but neither can it be undone by political willpower alone. It can only be reversed by the slow accumulation of individual choices, which is how all social and cultural recoveries are ultimately made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); FERTILITY RATES (76%); TRENDS (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); FAMILY (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); WOMEN (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



27 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2075 words

HEADLINE: The Old College Try? No Way

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
BENJAMIN GOERING does not look like Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg, talk like him or inspire the same controversy. But he does apparently think like him.
Two years ago, Mr. Goering was a sophomore at the University of Kansas, studying computer science and philosophy and feeling frustrated in crowded lecture halls where the professors did not even know his name.
''I wanted to make Web experiences,'' said Mr. Goering, now 22, and create ''tools that make the lives of others better.''
So in the spring of 2010, Mr. Goering took the same leap as Mr. Zuckerberg: he dropped out of college and moved to San Francisco to make his mark. He got a job as a software engineer at a social-software company, Livefyre, run by a college dropout, where the chief technology officer at the time and a lead engineer were also dropouts. None were sheepish about their lack of a diploma. Rather, they were proud of their real-life lessons on the job. 
''Education isn't a four-year program,'' Mr. Goering said. ''It's a mind-set.''
The idea that a college diploma is an all-but-mandatory ticket to a successful career is showing fissures. Feeling squeezed by a sagging job market and mounting student debt, a groundswell of university-age heretics are pledging allegiance to new groups like UnCollege, dedicated to ''hacking'' higher education. Inspired by billionaire role models, and empowered by online college courses, they consider themselves a D.I.Y. vanguard, committed to changing the perception of dropping out from a personal failure to a sensible option, at least for a certain breed of risk-embracing maverick.
Risky? Perhaps. But it worked for the founders of Twitter, Tumblr and a little company known as Apple.
When Mr. Goering was wrestling with his decision, he woke up every morning to a ringtone mash-up that blended electronic tones with snippets of Steve Jobs's 2005 commencement address at Stanford University, in which he advised, ''love what you do,'' ''don't settle.'' Mr. Goering took that as a sign.
''It's inspiring that his dropping out basically had no effect, positive or negative, on the work and company and values he could create,'' he said of the late Apple co-founder.
In that oft-quoted address, Mr. Jobs called his decision to drop out of Reed College ''one of the best decisions I ever made.'' Mr. Jobs's ''think different'' approach to education (backpacking through India, dining with Hare Krishnas) is portrayed in countless hagiographies as evidence of his iconoclastic genius.
Indeed, ambitious young people who consider dropping out of college a smart option have a different set of role models from those in the 1960s, who were basically stuck with the acid-guru Timothy Leary and his ''turn on, tune in, drop out'' ramblings. Nowadays, popular culture is portraying dropouts as self-made zillionaires whose decision to spurn the ''safe'' route (academic conformity) is akin to lighting out for the territories to strike gold.
Bill Gates dropped out of college. So did Michael Dell. So did Mr. Zuckerberg, who made the Forbes billionaires list at 23.
Mr. Zuckerberg's story is familiar to anyone who has seen the 2010 film ''The Social Network,'' in which Harvard seems little more than a glorified networking party for him. While the other Phi Beta Kappas are trudging through their Aristophanes, his character is hitting the parties, making contacts and making history. The dropout-mogul-as-rock-star meme will get a further boost with coming Steve Jobs biopics, including ''Jobs,'' starring Ashton Kutcher, and another one in the works written by Aaron Sorkin, who wrote the screenplay for ''The Social Network.''
Such attitudes are trickling down to the small screen, too. In a recent episode of the Fox sitcom ''The Mindy Project,'' Mindy Kaling's character, a doctor, grills a teenager about his plans for college. ''I'm not going to college,'' he tells her. ''Why should I load up on debt just to binge drink for four years when I could just create an app that nets me all the money I'll ever need?'' Such tales play well in the eyes of millennials, a generation hailed for their entrepreneurial acumen and financial pragmatism. Why pay money if you can make money?
No wonder the swashbuckling Web subculture is suddenly percolating with whiz-kid programmers thinking like ''one and done'' college hoopsters, who stick around campus only long enough to showcase their skills (and meet National Basketball Association draft requirements) before bolting for pro riches. Tech-start-ups have their own versions of Carmelo Anthony: folks like Jack Dorsey and Evan Williams of Twitter, and Kevin Rose of Digg. (Meanwhile, David Karp of Tumblr dropped out of high school.)
''Here in Silicon Valley, it's almost a badge of honor,'' said Mick Hagen, 28, who dropped out of Princeton in 2006 and moved to San Francisco, where he started Undrip, a mobile app. He is now recruiting from the undergraduate ranks, he said, which is becoming a trend among other tech companies, too. In his view, dropouts are freethinkers, risk-takers. They have not been tainted by groupthink.
''College puts a lot of constraints, a lot of limitations around what you can and can't do,'' Mr. Hagen said. ''Some people, they want to stretch their arms, get out and create more, do more.''
Even the staunchest critics of college concede that a diploma is still necessary for many professions -- law and medicine, clearly, and in many cases, for a Fortune 500 executive, too. But that's the point: how many more lawyers and middle managers do we need?
''College is training for managerial work, and the economy doesn't need that many managers,'' said Michael Ellsberg, the author of ''The Education of Millionaires: Everything You Won't Learn In College About How to Be Successful.''
Mr. Ellsberg, 35, graduated from Brown University and spent years trying to translate his expertise in post-colonial critical theory into a paying career. So his book tries to impart real-world skills, like salesmanship and networking, which he argues are crucial as white-collar jobs are being downsized or shipped to Bangalore. The future, he added, belongs to job creators, even if the only job they create is their own.
''I'm not saying you have to be Mark Zuckerberg or Steve Jobs,'' Mr. Ellsberg said. ''I know people with dog-walking businesses who make six figures.''
Mr. Ellsberg joined a growing chorus of academic dissenters, who have made it fashionable to question the value of a college degree. Last year, an anonymous academic who called himself Professor X, published ''In the Basement of the Ivory Tower,'' which argued that future police officers and nurses need not be force-fed Shakespeare.
Nikhil Goyal, a 17-year-old high school student in Long Island, published ''One Size Does Not Fit All: A Student's Assessment of School,'' contending that some students are better served by ditching lecture halls and treating the world as their classroom. The debate has inspired articles in The Huffington Post and New York magazine.
Perhaps most famously, Peter A. Thiel, the billionaire co-founder of PayPal, in 2010 started his Thiel Fellowship program, which pays students under 20 years old $100,000 apiece to bag college and pursue their own ventures. ''People are being conned into thinking that this credential is the one thing you need to do better in life,'' he said on ''60 Minutes'' last spring, adding, ''they typically are worse off, because they have amassed all this debt.''
For such critics, the explosion in student debt is the next subprime crisis. There is now $1 trillion in outstanding student debt, with $117 billion tacked on last year alone, according to calculations by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Tuition levels have quadrupled since the early '80s, according to the Student Body Scholarship Association.
These figures rankle James Altucher, a prominent investor, entrepreneur and pundit who self-published a book called ''40 Alternatives to College.'' ''College presidents now just arbitrarily think they can raise tuitions,'' he said. ''So what is happening is, rich people can still afford college, but poor people are borrowing this money and sacrificing their future for a lifetime of debt.''
Such opinions have met considerable headwind. Jacob Weisberg of Slate pounded Mr. Thiel over his ''nasty'' idea, which he argued is ''diverting a generation of young people from the love of knowledge for its own sake and respect for middle-class values.''
Indeed, many educators dismiss the college-is-overrated debate as a dangerous fringe idea, and say the real challenge is that only 56 percent of students who enter a four-year institution finish within six years, according to a recent Harvard study. To them, the statistic represents a crisis, not a sign of progress.
''The reality is, there is not a declining demand for college and university,'' said Richard Arum, a New York University sociology professor who co-wrote ''Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses.'' ''There is an increasing demand, and that is not just true for America, but for all the world. Increasingly, you need a diploma to compete for the jobs that are out there.''
The Ivory Tower apostates are undeterred. ''I think kids with a five-year head start on equally ambitious peers will be ahead in both education and income,'' said Mr. Altucher, who regrets graduating from Cornell. ''They could go to a library, read a book a day, take courses online. There are thousands of ways.''
Natalie Warne found one of them. A poised 22-year-old from Chicago, she stepped off the college track after high school to ''hack'' her education, which to her meant traveling the country to protest atrocities in war-torn Uganda.
It started with a gap-year internship after high school with a charity called Invisible Children, where she acquired experience in public speaking, event coordinating and film editing (she eventually appeared on ''Oprah''). Finding satisfaction, she stretched her gap year into two, and two became three. While speaking at a TED conference, she met Dale J. Stephens, the founder of a group called UnCollege that champions ''more meaningful'' alternatives to college. Her plans for college are off for now.
''Experience has proved to be a far better teacher in my life than any book, classroom or educator,'' she said.
UnCollege advocates a D.I.Y. approach to higher education and spreads the message through informational ''hackademic camps.'' ''Hacking,'' in the group's parlance, can involve any manner of self-directed learning: travel, volunteer work, organizing collaborative learning groups with friends. Students who want to avoid $200,000 in student-loan debt might consider enrolling in a technology boot camp, where you can learn to write code in 8 to 10 weeks for about $10,000, Mr. Stephens said.
THEY can also nourish their minds from a growing menu of Internet classrooms, including the massive open online courses, or MOOCs, which stream classes from elite universities like Princeton. This guerrilla approach hits home with young people who came of age seeking out valuable content free on Napster and BitTorrent.
Mr. Stephens, a dropout from Hendrix College in Arkansas (he later earned a Thiel Fellowship), started UnCollege less than two years ago, and already its Web site attracts 20,000 unique visitors a month. ''I get on scale of 10 to 15 e-mails a day from people who say something along lines of, 'I thought I was the only one out there who thought about education like this, I don't feel crazy anymore,' '' he said.
There are other groups, too, like Enstitute, which offers two-year apprenticeships with entrepreneurs in lieu of college, and Zero Tuition College, an online support network for students looking for alternatives.
The goal is not to foment for a mass exodus from the ivy halls, Mr. Stephens said, but to open people's minds to a different set of opportunities.
Sounds nice. But it is not an easy decision for students whose future is on the line. Jean Fan, a high school senior in San Mateo, Calif., is an editor for UnCollege, where she hopes to help inspire students to evolve ''from passive to active learners.''
Even so, she is busy applying to elite universities right now. She recognizes the irony.
''In terms of grades and test scores, I'm one of the top students at school,'' said Ms. Fan, 17. ''College seemed like the obvious next step.''
She added, ''Common sense, of course, is highly overrated.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OTHER TRACKS: Dale J. Stephens, above left, who founded UnCollege. Benjamin Goering, in the office of Livefyre, where he works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST16) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMILY FLAKE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (77%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); DISTANCE LEARNING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (74%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (90%); STEVEN JOBS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



28 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: The Power Of Failure

BYLINE: By SARIKA BANSAL

 BODY:
Seven years ago, the consulting group Bridgespan presented details on the performance of several prestigious nonprofits. Nearly all of them had one thing in common - failure. These organizations had a point at which they struggled financially, stalled on a project or experienced high rates of attrition. "Everyone in the room had the same response, which was relief," said Paul Schmitz, the chief executive of the nonprofit Public Allies. "It was good to see that I wasn't the only one struggling with these things."
As in any field, people who work in nonprofits, social enterprises, development agencies, and foundations experience failure on a regular basis. People make hiring and budgeting mistakes. Shipments arrive late, or not at all. Organizations allow their missions to drift. Technologies prove inappropriate for the communities meant to benefit from them.
"We are working in some of the most difficult places in the world," said Wayan Vota, a technology and information expert who organized the third annual FAILFaire conference two weeks ago in Washington. "But failure is literally the 'f-word' in development." The idea behind this FAILFaire, which was hosted by the World Bank, was to highlight, even celebrate, instances of failure in the field of social change as an integral part of the process of innovation and, ultimately, progress. 
Some nonprofits are tempted to hide their failures, partially for fear of donor reaction. But most acknowledge that transparency about what works and what doesn't is crucial to their eventual success.
"Not talking about [failure] is the worst thing you can do, as it means you're not helping the rest of the organization learn from it," said Jill Vialet, who runs the nonprofit Playworks. "It gives [the failure] a power and a weight that's not only unnecessary, but damaging." Vialet instead supports failing "out loud" and "forward," meaning that the people involved in the failure should speak about it openly and work to prevent history from repeating itself.This idea is already ingrained in the cultures of some for-profit industries. "In Silicon Valley, failure is a rite of passage," said Vota. "If you're not failing, you're not considered to be innovating enough." Silicon Valley investors, in turn, regularly reward entrepreneurs' risk-taking behavior, though they know the venture may fail and they will lose their capital.
"The ironic thing," said Schmitz of Public Allies, "is that you have donors who took major risks in their own fortunes, but are very risk averse when giving to charity. People rightly want their dollars to have the maximum impact, but don't apply the same logic model that they give to their private sector investment." As a result, he said, many social change groups innovate less often and less wildly.
Individuals within the social change community have recognized the value in emulating Silicon Valley's culture of calculated risk-taking, and are actively working to de-stigmatize failure. FAILFaire is one example. At the event, Aleem Walji, the director of the World Bank Institute's Innovation Labs, spoke of a failed collaboration with Google, in which the World Bank would have provided Google's Map Maker program to governments and multilaterals to help with disaster preparedness. However, development experts lambasted the World Bank for supporting Google's closed platform, which would not allow users free access to the map data they would create. A month after the partnership was announced, the bank changed course and announced its commitment to open-source mapping programs.
Walji said the lesson his team learned from the failed partnership was to "not get overly excited about the prospect of working with a big sexy company [like Google] before reading the fine print."
At the same event, Neelley Hicks of United Methodist Communications admitted that her organization spent limited resources flying people to Angola from the United States, when they could have found people within the country to do the same job. Other speakers spoke of ill-conceived partnerships, of unnecessary reports that spent their lives gathering dust, and of spending too much time building a Twitter presence.
Some organizations encourage employees to talk about failure in office events that are closed to the public. The World Bank is holding an internal FailFaire in December, which will be moderated by Jim Yong Kim, the bank's president. DoSomething.org, a nonprofit that supports social change among teenagers, holds a bi-annual Fail Fest conceived and hosted by its chief executive, Nancy Lublin.
Others publish their failures for the world to see. Engineers Without Borders Canada, which creates engineering solutions to international development problems, publishes a "failure report" every year alongside its annual report. "I only let the best failures into the report," said Ashley Good, its editor. The examples that are published, she said, show people who are "taking risks to be innovative."
Good also started a Web site, Admitting Failure, to encourage people working in international development to share their stories of failure. The site includes stories about arriving unprepared to an emergency medical situation in the Middle East, the theft of an expensive and underused water filter, and more.
One of the site's aims, said Good, is to create a "feedback loop" that does not currently exist in the development sector. In the private sector, she said, people know immediately whether a product is of value to customers. By contrast, "there are incentives [in the social change world] to not accept feedback, since your accountability is not to your beneficiaries but to your donors. N.G.O.s need to be able to say to donors, 'Don't fund this, it doesn't work.' "
For a failure to have a resounding impact on an organization and its future activities, several elements need to be in place. It is crucial to talk about failure aloud - and according to Vota, to have the "biggest hippo," or the most senior person, lead the charge. In addition to nurturing a culture of innovation and reflection, talking about failure helps build a canon of knowledge of what not to do in the future.
In addition, Jill Vialet of Playworks emphasizes the importance of "failing fast and cheap" (as opposed to slow and expensive). She sets aside a budget for new programs that intentionally have unpredictable outcomes. They limit the scope of these programs, clearly define failure and success at the outset, and decide when to measure the new program's merits. "It's about being disciplined and rigorous," said Vialet, since human nature normally prevents us from recognizing our mistakes while they are occurring.
Schmitz and several FAILFaire speakers also see the need to change the nature of donor relationships. Instead of trying to constantly dazzle funders, Schmitz recommends developing long-term relationships that allow for failure and growth. If a funder is invested in you, he said, he or she will share your sense of vulnerability if a project is not going as planned, and may sometimes help collectively problem solve.
Not all funders are looking for infallible investees. Talia Milgrom-Elcott, a program officer at the Carnegie Corporation of New York, says that when she evaluates a grant, she is more interested in whether the team can successfully deal with failure - "course correct" - than whether it will fail at all. "You want organizations [in your portfolio] to take calculated risks, you want them to think big," she said. "You want some that are taking big leaps, that are moving in a new direction."
Building a culture of openness to failure takes time and consistent effort. Unfortunately, efforts to normalize failure can be set back by cautionary tales of failures gone wrong. When the public learned in 2011 that the Global Fund that Fights AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria had mismanaged some funds, several countries froze their support. "The last thing people want to see is their tax dollars or donations being 'wasted' on failed projects that were not originally designed to help them in the first place," wrote Jessica Keralis on a global health blog.
In the majority of cases, however, failure in the social change world does not involve as many dollars or stakeholders, and admitting it can have a net positive impact on an organization. Doing so can build institutional knowledge and create a culture where people are more open to taking risks. Admitting failure can also signal to funders like Milgrom-Elcott that an organization is "unafraid to change and address the next problem."
Ultimately, said Good, her hope is to remove the negative connotation of failure and instead see it as an "indicator of innovation, and a driver of collaboration that's needed to catalyze systemic change." Only then can the social change world reach its true potential.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
Sarika Bansal is a journalist who writes about social innovation and global health. She is working with David Bornstein and Tina Rosenberg to develop the Solutions Journalism Network. Follow her on Twitter at @sarika008.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



29 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 3576 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey

 BODY:
A guide to cultural and recreational events in New Jersey. Items for the calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to njtowns@nytimes.com
Comedy
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater John Pinette, stand-up. Dec. 8 at 8 p.m. $38 and $48. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.
Film
PARAMUS AMC Garden State The New York Film Critics Series, not-yet-released independent films, and discussions with casts, filmmakers and industry affiliates; some screenings at Clearview Cinemas in Morristown. Through Dec. 12. AMC Garden State, 1 Garden State Plaza Boulevard. nyfilmcritics.com; (973) 539-8785. 
For Children
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Animation,'' exhibition that allows children to make cartoons and includes 30 hands-on activities involving art, math, science and technology. Through Jan. 4. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''The Velveteen Rabbit,'' performed by the Enchantment Theater Company. Dec. 2 at 1 p.m. $15 to $30. ''The Pharaoh's Daughter in HD,'' performed by the Bolshoi Ballet. Dec. 4 at 7 p.m. $7 and $12. Big Jeff and the Bouncy People: Warm for the Winter, featuring storytelling, music and puppetry. Dec. 8, 10 a.m. and noon. Free. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469;
statetheatrenj.org.
VINELAND Landis Theater ''Doktor Kaboom!'' Blend of theater arts and scientific exploration in an interactive education-based program. Dec. 2 at 2 p.m. $14. Landis Theater, 830 East Landis Avenue. landistheater.com; (856) 691-1121.
WEST LONG BRANCH Pollak Theater, Monmouth University ''Skippyjon Jones,'' musical based on the book by Judy Schachner. Dec. 12 at 10 a.m. $10 and $12. Pollak Theater, Monmouth University, 400 Cedar Avenue.
monmouth.edu/arts_events; (732) 263-6889.
Music and Dance
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater Tap Dogs, choreographed by Dein Perry. Dec. 9 at 3 p.m. $32 to $67. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. statetheatrenj.org; (732) 246-7469. NEWARK Prudential Center The Who: Quadrophenia and more, rock concert. Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. $46 to $66. Prudential Center, 165 Mulberry Street. prucenter.com; (973) 757-6000.
RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Sinatra Birthday Bash,'' jazz tribute to Frank Sinatra. Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. $49.50 to $75. ''Irish Tenors,'' with Finbar Wright, Anthony Kearns and Ronan Tynan. Dec. 12 at 8 p.m. $29.50 to $79.50. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; countbasietheatre.org.
TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum ''Bach to the Future.'' The pianist Alexander Wu performs works by Bach and other composers. Dec. 2 at 4 p.m. $10. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way. (201) 836-3499; puffinculturalforum.org.
Seasonal
BEDMINSTER Jacobus Vanderveer House ''10th Annual Colonial Christmas Show House and Tour.'' Colonial holiday interpretations, exhibitions, Colonial and federal antique furniture on loan from the Newark Museum, shopping at Lady Ellen's Mercantile Boutique, colonial-style musicians and Santa visits. Through Dec. 9. $10. Jacobus Vanderveer House, 995 U.S. Highway 202/206. colonialchristmas.org; (908) 212-7000.
CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse ''A Tuna Christmas,'' by Ed Howard, Joe Sears and Jaston Williams. Through Dec. 30. $15 to $35. Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse, Bank and Lafayette Streets. capemaystage.com; (609) 884-1341.
CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company ''Louisa May Alcott's Christmas,'' adapted and performed by Gayle Stahlhuth. Through Dec. 14. $15 and $25. East Lynne Theater Company, 500 Hughes Street.
eastlynnetheater.org; (866) 280-9211.
ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''The Nutcracker,'' presented by the New Jersey Ballet. Dec. 2. $20 to $50. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. bergenpac.org; (201) 227-1030.
FREEHOLD First Presbyterian Church of Freehold Atlantic Brass Quintet Christmas Concert. Dec. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $35. First Presbyterian Church of Freehold, 118 West Main Street. (732) 431-5623; fpcfreehold.org.
HACKENSACK Bergen County Academies Auditorium ''The Nutcracker,''presented by the Nunnbetter Dance Theater. Dec. 7 through 9. $25 and $30. Bergen County Academies Auditorium, 200 Hackensack Avenue. (201) 343-6000; bergen.org/academy.
HAMMONTON Eagle Theater ''Christmas Spectacular,'' original musical featuring renditions of holiday classics. Through Dec. 8. $10 and $12. Eagle Theater, 208 Vine Street. (609) 704-5012; theeagletheatre.com.
HILLSIDE Enlow Recital Hall at Kean University African Children's Choir, boys and girls from Uganda performing a holiday show. Dec. 2 at 3 p.m. $25 to $35. Enlow Recital Hall at Kean University, 215 North Avenue.
enlowhall.kean.edu; (908) 737-7469.
MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''Something Merry This Way Comes,'' seasonal stories read by actors. Dec. 10 at 7:30 p.m. $32. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. njshakespeare.org; (973) 408-5600.
MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Scrooge! The Musical,'' presented by the Shore Repertory Theatre Company. Through Dec. 9. $15 to $33. ''The Nutcracker,'' presented by the American Repertory Ballet. Dec. 15 and 16. $28 to $48. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. algonquinarts.com; (732) 528-9211.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center ''Dave Koz and Friends: Christmas Tour,'' jazz. Dec. 5 at 8 p.m. $59 to $89. ''Paul Anka: Christmas My Way,'' jazz. Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. $67 to $125. New Jersey Youth Chorus, holiday concert. Dec. 9 at 3 p.m. $20. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
NETCONG Growing Stage Theater ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,'' holiday musical. Through Dec. 23. $15 and $20. Growing Stage Theater, 7 Ledgewood Avenue. www.growingstage.com; (973) 347-4946.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''An Evening With Kenny Loggins: Holidays and Hits,'' soft rock. Dec. 5 at 8 p.m. $20 to $75. Mannheim Steamroller Christmas by Chip Davis, new age. Dec. 7 at 8 p.m. $35 to $90. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. statetheatrenj.org; (732) 246-7469.
NEWARK Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center Boston Pops Esplanade Orchestra, conducted by Keith Lockhart. Dec. 2 at 7:30 p.m. $25 to $125. Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; njpac.org.
OCEAN GROVE Ocean Grove Great Auditorium ''Christmas on Silver Pond,'' holiday musical written by Leigh Ross, with music by Steve Mugglin. Through Dec. 8. $5. Ocean Grove Great Auditorium, 15 Pilgrim Pathway. oceangrove.org; (732) 776-4015.
PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center ''A Christmas Carol,'' by Charles Dickens and adapted by David Thompson. Through Dec. 28. $20 to $65. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; mccarter.org.
PRINCETON Paul Robeson Center for the Arts ''Sauce for the Goose Holiday Show and Sale,'' works by regional artists, artisans and crafters featuring a mix of fine art and crafts, including paintings, drawings and functional and decorative ceramics. Through Dec. 22. Paul Robeson Center for the Arts, 102 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-8777;
artscouncilofprinceton.org.
RAHWAY Hamilton Stage ''The Nutcracker,'' presented by the American Repertory Ballet. Dec. 2. $35. Hamilton Stage, 360 Hamilton Street. (732) 499-8226; ucpac.org.
RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Monmouth Civic Chorus: Messiah and More,'' holiday concert. Dec. 2 at 4 p.m. $25 and $45. ''The Nutcracker,'' presented by the Company of Dance Arts. Dec. 8. $15 to $35. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000;
countbasietheatre.org.
RED BANK Two River Theater ''A Wind in the Willows Christmas,'' musical based on the book by Kenneth Grahame. Dec. 8 through 30. $20 to $67. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; trtc.org.
SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center A Winter Holiday Concert, with the Seton Hall University Orchestra and Choir. Dec. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Free. ''It's a Wonderful Life (A Radio Play),'' presented by Midtown Direct Rep. Dec. 8 at 2 and 8 p.m. $15 to $30. ''The Nutcracker,'' presented by the New York Theater Ballet. Dec. 2 at 2 and 5 p.m. $25 to $40. The Juilliard Jazz Ensemble, featuring musicians from the Juilliard School of Music. Dec. 9 at 3 p.m. $15 and $20. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; sopacnow.org.
WEST LONG BRANCH Pollak Theater, Monmouth University ''The Holiday Guys,'' musical. Through Dec. 2. $30 and $40. Pollak Theater, Monmouth University, 400 Cedar Avenue.
monmouth.edu/arts_events; (732) 263-6889.
WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''Twas the Night Before Christmas,'' based on Clement C. Moore's poem. Through Dec. 2. $10. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; kelseytheatre.net.
Theater
HACKETTSTOWN Centenary Stage Company, Lackland Center ''The Wizard of Oz,'' musical based on the children's novel by L. Frank Baum. Through Dec. 9. $20 to $29.50. Centenary Stage Company, Lackland Center, 715 Grand Avenue. (908) 979-0900;
centenarystageco.org.
HOBOKEN Monroe TheatreSpace in Hoboken ''It's a Wonderful Life: A Live Radio Play,'' by Joe Landry, based on the Frank Capra film. Dec. 6 through 23. $12 and $20, with a pay-what-you-will performance on Dec. 13. Monroe TheatreSpace, 720 Monroe Street. (201) 683-7014;
milesquaretheatre.org.
LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company, Lumia Theater ''Esther's Moustache,'' written and directed by Laurel Ollstein. Dec. 13 through Jan. 13. $25 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, Lumia Theater, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; njrep.org.
MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''Trelawny of the Wells,'' romantic comedy by Arthur Wing Pinero. Dec. 5 to 30. $10 to $80. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. njshakespeare.org; (973) 408-5600.
MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse ''The Sound of Music,'' musical. Through Dec. 30. $34 to $114. Paper Mill Playhouse, 22 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; papermill.org.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''The Last Romance,'' by Joe DiPietro. Dec. 2. $20 to $45. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. morrismuseum.org; (973) 971-3706.
NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse ''The Best of Enemies,'' drama by Mark St. Germain. Through Dec. 23. $32 to $71. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. gsponline.org; (732) 246-7717.
NEWARK Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center ''Shatner's World,'' autobiographical solo show with William Shatner. Dec. 2 at 2 p.m. $39.50 to $69.50. Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; njpac.org.
UNION Premiere Stages at Kean University ''Liberty Live! Talking to Westfield,'' by E. M. Lewis. Dec. 7 through 9. (Rescheduled from Nov. 1 through 4.) $15. Premiere Stages at Kean University, 1000 Morris Avenue. kean.edu/premierestages; (908) 737-7469.
VINELAND Landis Theater ''Pegate a la Risa,'' stand-up comedy, sketches and musical parodies featuring Puerto Rican comedic actors. Dec. 7 at 7:30 p.m. $20 and $25. Landis Theater, 830 East Landis Avenue. (856) 691-1121;
landistheater.com.
WEST ORANGE Luna Stage ''Mi Casa, Tu Casa,'' bilingual holiday celebration created by Michael Aquino, Deivis Garcia, Jane Mandel and Dania Ramos. Through Dec. 16. $15 and $30. Luna Stage, 555 Valley Road. (973) 395-5551; lunastage.org.
Museums and Galleries
ASBURY PARK Heaven Art and Antiques ''Assembled,'' assorted two- and three-dimensional works. Through Jan. 6. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Mondays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Heaven Art and Antiques, 721 Cookman Avenue. (732) 774-4799.
BOUND BROOK Hamilton Street Gallery ''Requiem (A passage of influence),'' an exhibition featuring works by 16 artists. Through Jan. 3. Hamilton Street Gallery, 6 Hamilton Street. (732) 748-2092;
hamiltonstreetgallery.com.
CLINTON Hunterdon Art Museum ''Disparate Roots: Contemporary Collage,'' seven contemporary artists. Through Jan. 6. ''Ghost of a Dream,'' works from discarded lottery and scratch-off tickets and other detritus of popular culture, by Adam Eckstrom and Lauren Was. Through Jan. 6. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Art Museum, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415;
hunterdonartmuseum.org.
DEMAREST Mikhail Zakin Gallery ''Elements,'' group exhibition of contemporary artists. Dec. 13 through Jan. 12. Reception: Dec. 13, 6 to 8 p.m. Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Mikhail Zakin Gallery, 561 Piermont Road. (201) 767-7160; tasoc.org.
ENGLEWOOD Mark Gallery ''Weaving World,'' works by Rick Stevens. Through Dec. 22. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Mark Gallery, 11 Grand Avenue. mark-gallery.com; (201) 568-6275.
EWING The College of New Jersey ''Goddess, Lion, Peasant, Priest: Modern and Contemporary Indian Art From the Shelley and Donald Rubin Private Collection.'' Through Dec. 16. Tuesdays through Thursdays, noon to 7 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 3 p.m. The College of New Jersey, 2000 Pennington Road. (609) 771-2633; tcnj.edu/artgallery.
FORT LEE The Fort Lee Historical Museum ''Universal Studio Centennial Exhibit: From Fort Lee to Universal City,'' the birth of Universal Studios in Fort Lee in 1912 documented in archival photos and studio artifacts. Through Jan. 27. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; Wednesdays, 7 to 9 p.m. Fort Lee Historical Museum, 1588 Palisade Avenue.
thefortleehistoricalsociety.org; (201) 592-3580.
HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Ming Fay: Canutopia,'' mixed media. Through February 2013. ''Heaven, Hell and the History of Punch,'' works by Robert Taplin. Through April 10. $8 to $12; members and children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; groundsforsculpture.org.
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Art of Science Photo Exhibit,'' 45 images selected by Emmet Gowin, photographer, and Joel Smith, curator of photography at the Princeton University Art Museum. Through Feb. 28. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts ''Orphan to Apprentice: Child Indentures as Social Welfare,'' on government apprenticing of orphans and pauper children through the 19th century. Through March 1. $3 and $5; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. metc.org; (973) 377-2982.
MAHWAH Mahwah Museum ''Les Paul in Mahwah,'' exhibition about the longtime resident, inventor, musician and self-taught engineer. Through June 1. $3 to $5; members and children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Mahwah Museum, 201 Franklin Turnpike. (201) 512-0099; mahwahmuseum.org.
MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Saya Woolfalk: The Empathics,'' sculptures based on objects in the museum's collection of Native American art, videos on large outdoor monitors and a performance. Through Jan. 6. ''Georgia O'Keeffe in New Mexico: Architecture, Katsinam and the Land,'' Kachina dolls and 30 paintings and works on paper. Through Jan. 20. ''Patterns, Systems, Structures: Abstraction in American Art.'' Through May 19. $12; seniors and students, $10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; montclairartmuseum.org.
MORRIS PLAINS The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms ''Styling an American Family: The 1910s at Gustav Stickley's Craftsman Farms,'' fashions from Syracuse University's Sue Ann Genet Costume Collection. Through Jan. 6. The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms, 2352 Route 10 West. stickleymuseum.org; (973) 540-1165.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum ''Ordinary Made Extraordinary: A Survey of Folk Art,'' more than 150 objects, including weather vanes, carousel animals, sculpture and maritime art. Through Dec. 9. $7 to $10. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. morrismuseum.org; (973) 971-3700.
MORRISTOWN Macculloch Hall Historical Museum ''Thomas Nast: President Maker and Campaign Breaker,'' illustrating the presidential campaigns from 1864 through 1884. Through June 1. $6 to $8; children ages 6 to 12, $4; children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Macculloch Hall Historical Museum, 45 Macculloch Avenue. maccullochhall.org; (973) 538-2404.
NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum ''Art=Text=Art,'' over 100 American drawings, prints, works on paper and artists' books from the collection of Sally and Wynn Kramarsky. Through Jan. 6. ''Le Mur at the Cabaret des Quat'z'Arts,'' installation of about 50 sheets from the changing display of drawings, poems and newspaper clippings mounted on a wall of the Paris cabaret from 1894 to 1905. Through Feb. 24. ''Prints by Mary Cassatt: In the Company of Women,'' 23 works. Through March 3. ''Lynd Ward Draws Stories: Inspired by Mexico's History, Mark Twain and Adventures in the Woods.'' Through June 30. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.
NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''The Collection: Past and Present Acquisitions,'' artifacts, photos, fine art, folk art and sculpture. Through Jan. 31. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. hstrial-pfazekaz.homestead.com; (732) 846-5777.
NEWARK City Without Walls ''Metro 29 Show,'' exhibition featuring artists from the metropolitan region. Through Feb. 16. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m. Gallery is closed Dec. 24 to Jan 1. City Without Walls, 6 Crawford Street. (973) 622-1188; cwow.org.
NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Generation Fit: Steps to a Healthier Lifestyle,'' interactive family exhibition on nutrition and exercise. Through Dec. 30. ''From Meiji to Modern: Japanese Art Goes Global, 19th to 21st Centuries.'' Through Dec. 31. ''The Teapot,'' 66 teapots. Through Dec. 31. ''Angels and Tomboys: Girlhood in 19th-Century American Art,'' traveling loan exhibition. Through Jan. 20. ''Expanding Africa at the Newark Museum: New Visions, New Galleries,'' contemporary and historical works in different media. Through May 1. ''Present Tense -- Arts of Contemporary Africa,'' works from the permanent collection, continuing. $6 to $10; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; newarkmuseum.org.
OCEAN TOWNSHIP Township of Ocean Historical Museum ''Loved Ones Go to War: Local Stories of World War II,'' exhibition that highlights the impact of the war on a sampling of local veterans and those they left behind. Through June 1. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Thursdays, 7 to 9 p.m.; and first and second Sundays of the month, 1 to 4 p.m. Township of Ocean Historical Museum, 703 Deal Road. oceanmuseum.org; (732) 531-2136.
OCEANVILLE Noyes Museum of Art ''Finding Home: Seth Camm,'' paintings and stories examining homelessness. Through Jan. 27. $4 and $5. Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with extended hours Thursdays until 8 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Noyes Museum of Art, 733 Lily Lake Road. (609) 652-8848; noyesmuseum.org.
PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''Portrait of Place: Paintings, Drawings and Prints of New Jersey, 1761-1898, From the Collection of Joseph J. Felcone.'' Through Jan. 13. $6; seniors and students, $5. Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. (609) 924-8144; morven.org.
PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum ''Dancing Into Dreams: Maya Vase Painting of the Ik' Kingdom.'' Through Feb. 17. ''City of Gold: Tomb and Temple in Ancient Cyprus,'' art and archaeology of early Cyprus. Through Jan. 20. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Nassau and Witherspoon Streets. artmuseum.princeton.edu; (609) 258-3788.
PRINCETON Princeton University Library ''The Election for Woodrow Wilson's America,'' inspired by the centennial of Wilson's election. Through Dec. 28. ''First X, Then Y, Now Z: Landmark Thematic Maps'' in meteorology, geology, hydrography, natural history, medicine and sociology/economics. Through Feb. 10. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Princeton University Library, 1 Washington Road. princeton.edu/rbsc; (609) 258-3184.
STONE HARBOR William Ris Gallery ''Nature and Art,'' group show featuring Glenn Rudderow. Through Jan. 31. Sundays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. William Ris Gallery, 9400 Second Avenue. (609) 368-6361; williamris.com.
SUMMIT Visual Arts Center of New Jersey ''Picture Takers,'' group show of works made from or inspired by vernacular photography. Through Dec. 2. ''Margaret Murphy: Memory Theater,'' multimedia installation. Through Dec. 2. Visual Arts Center of New Jersey, 68 Elm Street. (908) 273-9121; artcenternj.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRINCETON: The cast of ''A Christmas Carol,'' by Charles Dickens and adapted by David Thompson, at the McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place, Dec. 2 through 28. Tickets are $20 to $65. (609) 258-2787
mccarter.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. CHARLES ERICKSON) (NJ7)
NEW BRUNSWICK: Tap Dogs, a tap dance show created by the Australian dancer and choreographer Dein Perry, is at the State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue, on Dec. 9 at 3 p.m. Tickets are $32 to $67. statetheatrenj.org
(732) 246-7469. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA ARTISTS MANAGEMENT) (NJ9)
HACKENSACK: The Nunnbetter Dance Theater presents ''The Nutcracker'' at the Bergen County Academies Theater, 200 Hackensack Avenue, from Dec. 7 through 9. Tickets are $25 and $30. (201) 385-9638
nunnbetterdance.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD HOLLAND/OCTOBER 7 PRODUCTIONS)
NEWARK: ''Gull With Reflection'' (2011), oil on linen by Claudia Waters, is in ''Metro 29 Show,'' a group exhibition at City Without Walls, 6 Crawford Street, on display through Feb. 16. (973) 622-1188
 cwow.org. (NJ10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); FILM (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DANCE (89%); MUSIC (87%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); ANIMATION (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MAMMALS (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); BALLET (72%); POP & ROCK (65%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (65%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



30 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: New President of Mexico Vows to Focus on Economy

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- With protests and little pomp, Enrique Peña Nieto on Saturday began his six-year term as president of Mexico, promising big spending and sweeping changes to bring peace and prosperity to a country troubled by drug violence and uneven economic growth.
''This is Mexico's moment,'' Mr. Peña Nieto declared in his inaugural address before a gathering of domestic and foreign leaders at the national palace, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., seated in the front row, while demonstrators kept far from the scene vandalized buildings and clashed with riot police officers outside. 
Mr. Peña Nieto, 46, a lawyer who had been governor of Mexico State, has pledged to work closely with the United States to strengthen security and economic ties, which he believes would bring Mexico closer to a middle-class society and reduce the kind of drug war violence that has left tens of thousands dead in the past several years.
He made no promise to dismantle the drug-trafficking organizations, a focus of his immediate predecessor, Felipe Calderón. Instead, he unveiled a sweeping 13-point agenda focused more on domestic goals for crime prevention that would revise the penal code to attack impunity, give more attention to victims of violence, lessen poverty and hunger, improve schooling and even build new passenger train lines and expand Internet access.
''We are a nation that is growing at two speeds; some live behind and in poverty and others live in the developing part,'' he said, alluding to new manufacturing plants and investments but also grinding poverty that affects half the population.
''There are a great number of Mexicans who live every day worried about the lack of employment and opportunities,'' he added. ''Those conditions also damage the image of Mexico abroad, and that is the Mexico that must be transformed.''
Still, his administration will be watched to see if it is propelling Mexico forward or backward.
Mr. Peña Nieto ushers in a new era for the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, which ruled Mexico for more than 70 years before the more conservative National Action Party toppled it in 2000 and again in 2006.
Mr. Peña Nieto and his associates say they represent a new, chastened party bent on promoting efficiency and economic change -- there were no public inaugural celebrations -- and promising to fight the kind of corruption long associated with it.
''It's a very common misconception to think that the PRI's return to power means the return of something that is already in history,'' Luis Videgaray, who led the president's transition team and is now finance minister, said in a recent interview.
''The PRI of today is like any other party: a party that competes in a democracy, that accepts results and understands that only through good government would it be able to compete again in elections,'' he said.
But Mr. Peña Nieto hardly begins with a mandate; he won 38 percent of the vote and faces a divided legislature, where his party often blocked significant changes proposed by Mr. Calderon. He recited the oath of office before Congress amid cheers and jeers, mostly from leftist legislators, and left the congressional chamber quickly.
Later, outside the national palace, scores of mostly young masked people, shouting anti-PRI slogans, clashed with the police, set fires, threw rocks and vandalized hotels and stores along several blocks. More than 90 were arrested and several were injured, and Mayor Marcelo Ebrard later blamed anarchist groups for the trouble..
When Mr. Peña Nieto announced his cabinet on Friday, it was clear that he had relied largely on PRI stalwarts, including five former governors. But he also placed several foreign-educated technocrats from his inner circle, including Mr. Videgaray, in prominent positions.
Andrew Selee, director of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Mexico Institute in Washington, said Mr. Peña Nieto seemed intent on reaffirming the power of the state, a hallmark of his party, while also hinting at taking on interest groups. He specifically promised an end to entrenched employment in the education system, seen as a jab at the powerful teachers' union, which has stymied changes.
''After several years of decentralized government in Mexico, Peña Nieto seems intent on showing that the Mexican state is back and that all of the interest groups in the country will need to respect his authority,'' Mr. Selee said. ''How significant these efforts are in reality depends on what he does next, but symbolically Peña Nieto reasserted the power of the presidency after years of what many Mexicans feel has been fragmented and ineffective government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Enrique Peña Nieto met with lawmakers at the national palace on his way to giving his first speech as president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); RIOTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); LAWYERS (71%); VANDALISM (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (68%); CRIMINAL LAW (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (64%); CRIME PREVENTION (51%); TRAINS (50%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (93%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



31 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2712 words

HEADLINE: Columbia's Gang Scholar Lives on the Edge

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER

 BODY:
FROM his earliest days as a graduate student, Sudhir Venkatesh did things differently. He came to sociology by way of math, not by the social sciences. He was an Indian-American Deadhead from Southern California who wore a ponytail and tie-dyed shirts. He stuck out.
Today, he is a celebrity in an otherwise low-key academic field -- a star on campus, an influential public intellectual, a sought-after speaker. The hardcover of his best-selling book, ''Gang Leader for a Day: A Rogue Sociologist Takes to the Streets,'' released in 2008, features a full-length photo of him looking tough in jeans and a leather jacket, its collar turned up.
Through his research on gang life and prostitutes, he has succeeded against long odds in making sociology seem hip. And by writing in magazines, being featured in the book ''Freakonomics,'' and even appearing on late-night television, he has succeeded in bringing that research out of the academy and into the public realm. 
But fame has brought controversy. Some of his peers say that in search of a broader readership he takes liberties not appropriate for a scholar: sensationalizing his experiences, exaggerating the reliability of his memory and, in one case, physically assaulting someone. Others who might not have attracted mainstream attention say he steps too eagerly into the spotlight.
And at Columbia, where he briefly led the university's largest social science research center, he was the subject last year of a grueling investigation into a quarter-million dollars of spending that Columbia auditors said was insufficiently documented, misappropriated or outright fabricated.
According to internal documents from that investigation, which were obtained by The New York Times, the auditors said that Professor Venkatesh directed $52,328 to someone without any ''documented evidence of work performed.'' He listed a dinner for 25 people, relating to research on professional baseball players; auditors found that only 8 people had attended, and that the research project had not been approved.
He charged Columbia for town cars to take him around, to take his fiancée home from work one late night, to take someone -- it is not specified whom -- from Professor Venkatesh's address to a building that houses a nail salon and a psychic. All told, auditors questioned expenses amounting to $241,364.83.
The documents do not indicate what judgment Columbia administrators reached about the audit, or what actions, if any, they took as a result. Professor Venkatesh said in a brief phone conversation in October that he had repaid $13,000.
He is no longer affiliated with the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy, or Iserp. Still a tenured professor, he is now a member of the university's Committee on Global Thought. This semester, he has been on parental leave with a new baby, while visiting at the Institute for Public Knowledge at New York University.
During that brief interview, Professor Venkatesh said he was proud of his record at Iserp: ''I answered all their questions, I'm doing my research, I have a new appointment at the university that I'm very excited about. I just don't want to get into these details.''
Columbia also declined to discuss the investigation. ''We do not comment on personnel matters, but we can confirm that Professor Venkatesh is a faculty member,'' a spokesman for the university said.
That discretion is common among prestigious schools, but Anne D. Neal, president of the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, an organization that focuses on accountability in higher education, said it was hazardous. ''The university should always err on the side of transparency and being open,'' she said. ''Without knowing all the facts here, if Columbia wants to maintain donor and public trust, it shouldn't hide the investigation or the findings.''
BORN in India and raised in an upper-middle-class suburb in California, Sudhir Venkatesh earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics from the University of California at San Diego, then pursued graduate studies at the University of Chicago, where he encountered one of the great pillars in American academia: the Chicago school of sociology.
He signed on for a research project led by William Julius Wilson, a pre-eminent scholar of race and poverty, for which Professor Venkatesh says he approached strangers, questionnaire in hand, and asked, ''How does it feel to be black and poor?'' (Possible answers: very bad, somewhat bad, neither bad nor good, somewhat good, very good.) But he quickly came to see the folly of this approach, he has said, and ditched the questionnaire in favor of just spending time with his subjects, time that rolled on into years, as he tried to learn about their lives on their terms, not his.
The story, which he has recounted in two books and numerous speaking engagements, is a good one: it allows Professor Venkatesh to laugh at himself, yet also implies that he was more authentically engaged with poor black people than his professors were. But Professor Wilson, for one, was surprised when he read it. ''I asked him one day: 'Where did you get that questionnaire? I don't remember ever giving you any questionnaire like that!' And he said, 'Well, it wasn't yours.' ''
Professor Wilson, now at Harvard, describes his former student as brilliant, creative and ''able to easily establish rapport with different people.''
''He has a very pleasant personality, and he makes people relax.''
He was also savvy in the realm of academic politics. ''The other graduate students were envious that he was able to command a lot of my time,'' Professor Wilson said. ''I'm a very busy person.''
Professor Venkatesh later revealed how. ''I found out later when he wrote the book 'Gang Leader for a Day' that he took up golf as a way to spend more time with me,'' Professor Wilson said.
In the Robert Taylor Homes, a notorious housing project in Chicago, Professor Venkatesh was what sociologists refer to as a ''participant observer.'' He attended community meetings, he went to parties, and most of all, he hung out with the Black Kings, a crack-dealing gang whose power structure was the closest thing that the community -- all but abandoned by politicians and the police -- had to a functioning local government. The housing project was torn down in the late '90s.
Those encounters formed the basis of his first book, ''American Project: The Rise and Fall of a Modern Ghetto,'' and they pointed toward his next volume, ''Off the Books: The Underground Economy of the Urban Poor,'' both of which were published to acclaim. One encounter in particular, with the gang's bookkeeper, who gave Professor Venkatesh several years' worth of ledgers, led to a collaboration with the University of Chicago economist Steven D. Levitt on two important articles.
When Professor Levitt later teamed up with the journalist Stephen J. Dubner to write ''Freakonomics,'' they devoted a chapter to Professor Venkatesh's experiences.
Professor Venkatesh's next book, ''Gang Leader for a Day,'' signified a very different approach. A vivid, often visceral narrative of complex characters and dangerous encounters, it won glowing reviews, found a spot on The New York Times best-seller list and became, in the words of the Rutgers sociologist Patrick J. Carr, ''one of the most widely reviewed sociology books ever.'' It established its author as a crossover academic star, someone able to communicate complex ideas to mainstream readers. No longer just a rising professor, he became a true public intellectual.
Many of the colleagues who, along with friends, employees and students, made up the almost three dozen people interviewed for this article, raised concerns about the process by which Professor Venkatesh translated his research into best-seller material. For example, the book includes page after page of dialogue, rendered between quotation marks as though verbatim, despite his acknowledgment that he rarely took notes in real time. (Other sociologists say there is no clear standard for quotations in ethnographic studies.)
The book also shows him stepping off the sidelines to shape events directly, even engaging in legally dubious acts like helping to steer the gang's activities for a day or kicking a Black King member's assailant in the stomach.
Beyond the content of the book, its basic style raised eyebrows. ''Gang Leader'' includes the kind of satisfying narrative arcs and dramatic characters (like the street hustler who reveals that he not only went to college, but also studied sociology) that have more in common with Hollywood films than with most dry academic discourse.
''It's very vivid; he's a great writer,'' said Alisse Waterston, an anthropologist at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. But to satisfy readers, she added, ''there is, of course, the temptation to highlight the lurid.'' His previous books resisted that temptation, she said. But then, those books did not find a mainstream audience.
At the 2009 convention of the Eastern Sociological Society, Professor Waterston criticized the book on a panel with Terry Williams, a professor at the New School, and others, including Professor Venkatesh. The tough questions began, Professor Williams said, with the title of the book, which exaggerates the role that Professor Venkatesh was actually allowed to play.
''Ethnography has a fictional element,'' Professor Williams said. ''We all know that. You have to, for example, change names of people you don't want to be harmed if the authorities got ahold of your manuscript. There were some concerns that he was somewhat disingenuous about a great deal of his research in that regard.'' In particular, Professor Williams was dubious about Professor Venkatesh's tendency to explain his errors of judgment as mere naïveté.
Camille Z. Charles, a sociologist who runs the Department of Africana Studies at the University of Pennsylvania, said she was even more disturbed by the ''thrill'' he described at being around drug dealers -- like his fantasy that one meeting he attended would involve ''half-naked women sitting poolside and rubbing the bosses with sunscreen.'' In an essay in the journal Sociological Forum, Professor Venkatesh responded to such criticism by saying he ''hoped that my readership would understand urban poverty as they followed my own self-discovery of these conditions -- specifically, as I discovered my own stereotypes to be faulty. In a memoir, one has to admit one's own failings.''
PROFESSOR VENKATESH'S position at the helm of Iserp, which he assumed in 2009, greatly expanded his opportunities. He oversaw the Revson Fellowship, a prestigious sabbatical year for city leaders to spend at Columbia. He made documentaries. He met an undergraduate who had played minor league baseball, and together they conceived of a project researching professional players.
All of these projects, and many more, appear in a 24-page document, dated Aug. 4, 2011, that Columbia auditors drew up after their investigation into Professor Venkatesh's financial activities at Iserp. Some involved minor expenditures, like a $41.26 lunch. But others involved much larger sums, and confusion about the reason for the payment or even the identity of the recipient. Cash payments, of $100 each to research subjects who could not be identified, totaled $33,000. Payments totaling $52,328 to the subject of one of his documentaries were for what auditors called ''fabricated business purposes.''
A freelance editor who told auditors he had worked on ''Gang Leader for a Day'' received $15,000 to teach a writing seminar -- $10,000 more than had been budgeted. And $8,911 that Professor Venkatesh was supposed to pay to a colleague for a study they collaborated on somehow failed to make it into that colleague's account. Professor Venkatesh told auditors the colleague had failed to do the work, a claim that auditors determined to be untrue. (A spokesman for the Carnegie Corporation, which financed the study, said it had not been informed of the dispute.)
All told, the auditors listed $19,405 in ''inappropriate transactions'' -- like $1,514 in town car charges -- and $221,960 in expenses with ''insufficient documentation'' -- like payments to unnamed research subjects.
Professor Venkatesh declined to explain for this article how Columbia resolved these allegations, though in an e-mail he later stipulated that the person who had taught the writing seminar ''was retained as a writer and editor.'' He added, ''I have never been accused of fraud or embezzlement,'' and ''I reimbursed the university for a sum of approximately $13,000 for funds that were misallocated during my tenure as director of Iserp.''
Neither he nor Columbia commented on the balance of the disputed expenditures.
THE Columbia financial investigation may be settled, but sociologists continue to debate Professor Venkatesh's work, and in particular its impact on the people he writes about. Universities have elaborate safeguards in place to oversee research involving human subjects. But Columbia's auditors said that the baseball study, for example, was ''apparently unsuccessfully submitted'' for approval ''after the research had been completed.''
Professor Venkatesh more recently served as a Federal Bureau of Investigation consultant, which Harvey Molotch, a sociologist at New York University, said he and others found ''troubling,'' since it gave research subjects reason to ask if the sociologist who solicits their trust may later turn them in.
Finally, Professor Venkatesh published an information graphic in Wired magazine last year, based on his conversations with sex workers, that announced without much context how often they were beaten or how much more they charged for unprotected sex. Some readers expressed concern that people could read those statistics as a license, or even a menu, for abuse.
Professor Venkatesh's friends, however, describe him as charismatic in a quiet, confident way; smart without being overbearing; physically graceful: natural gifts that helped him earn the trust of his subjects and the interest of fellow intellectuals.
Alexandra K. Murphy, who did research for him while she was an undergraduate, said that he carefully encouraged her professional development and showed similar kindness to the people he wrote about. ''He has a very close relationship with these people, and they have a lot of respect for him,'' she said. ''Sudhir has contributed to their life, and the way he talks about what they've done for him in terms of friendship is really remarkable. That's very rare.''
During the phone conversation in October, Professor Venkatesh said: ''Look, I'm a scholar. I'm a sociologist. I have a particular way I do my work.'' He added: ''I'm really proud of it. I'd like to have that be the basis on which I'm known.''
Part of the way he does his work is by engaging with the general public, in highly visible arenas. He has written pointedly about public policy debates for Slate, The New Republic and The Times's Op-Ed page. He went on ''The Colbert Report'' in 2008, where he came across as relaxed and charming, and the story about the questionnaire got a good laugh.
Success on the public stage is a complicated proposition for professors. It often opens them up to derision, not all of it motivated by scholarly concerns.
''The criticism can be jealousy,'' says Shamus Khan, a friend and a fellow Columbia sociologist who writes about status hierarchies. It can also reflect a feeling among more traditional scholars that for someone like Professor Venkatesh, academia is just ''a steppingstone on the pathway to real success. It devalues what they do.'' And the greater the success that person achieves, the greater the resentment he may attract.
Justin Humphries, the former baseball player who studied with Professor Venkatesh, recalled a time his professor gave a seminar at George Washington University's STAR Executive M.B.A. program, which specializes in athletes, artists and musicians. Professor Venkatesh ''was sitting on a bench with three or four professional athletes,'' he remembered, ''and one of the students came up and said, 'Oh my God, can I get a picture with you?' And the athletes thought they were talking to them, but it was -- no, it was Professor Venkatesh.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DOUBT: Some peers have criticized Sudhir Venkatesh over the accuracy of the information in his book ''Gang Leader for a Day.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN KAFKA) (MB1)
CONTROVERSIAL: Sudhir Venkatesh, above at a lecture last month, was audited over expenditures at Columbia University, where he briefly led a research center. Professor Venkatesh, at far left with two colleagues, Dorian Warren, center, and Shamus Khan, is still on Columbia's faculty. Professor Khan says criticism of Professor Venkatesh is based, in part, on jealousy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ACCLAIM: Professor Venkatesh's ''Gang Leader for a Day'' chronicled life at the Robert Taylor Homes, a notorious housing project in Chicago, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICIA WALL/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); SOCIOLOGY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (71%); BESTSELLERS (70%); GANGS (70%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (67%); MISAPPROPRIATION (64%); BASEBALL (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); FAMILY LEAVE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



32 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Tipping Suggestions for Renters
Q Is it common and appropriate for rental tenants to tip building employees for the holidays? If so, are there any suggested amounts?
A ''It's definitely appropriate to tip during the holiday season,'' said Kari Taylor, the senior manager for marketing at Rent.com, which specializes in rental apartments. ''Tipping is a great way to say 'thank you' to those who have provided great service and gone out of their way to take care of things for you during the year.''
Unfortunately, Ms. Taylor said, the practice is not as common as it could be. A couple of rules of thumb should be followed. For example, it is usually wise to tip a doorman and a superintendent the same amount, so that one doesn't think he is less appreciated than the other. And if a tenant gave a building employee a tip last year, he should probably give the same amount this year. 
It is also possible for tenants to pool their resources to provide employee tips. The most basic rule for holiday tipping, Ms. Taylor said, is for a tenant to do what ''feels right'' and is within the tenant's financial means. Just about any tip is appreciated, she said, ''no matter how big or small.'' For those whose budgets are tight, ''simply writing a personal 'thank you' note, or even baking some cookies, is a great way to show your gratitude.''
Condo Fees After Deed in Lieu of Foreclosure
Q My mother, who owned a condo, passed away last July. I paid the condo fees until we emptied her apartment and completed a deed in lieu of foreclosure under which the bank took title to the unit instead of foreclosing on the mortgage. We notified the condominium association of what we had done and told them the property was no longer in our hands. The association, however, keeps sending bills to my parents, even though both are dead. It has been adding late fees and fines, and the bills are up to several thousand dollars. The bills come to me because I left a forwarding address, and now I'm getting calls from a collection agency. There was no will or any estate proceeding. What is my responsibility?
A Arthur I. Weinstein, a Manhattan lawyer who is the vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that a child of a deceased unit owner generally is not liable for unpaid common charges. But he said the writer's statement that there was no will or estate proceeding is a problem.
''The assets of the estate of the writer's mother may be at risk,'' he said, ''because the estate remains liable for common charges until ownership of the unit is properly transferred.''
A ''deed in lieu of foreclosure'' allows the owner to avoid a lengthy and expensive foreclosure proceeding by transferring ownership of the property to the lender.
Since there was no estate proceeding after the mother's death, it is possible that the ''deed in lieu of foreclosure'' completed by the writer did not effectively transfer ownership to the bank. The writer should try to confirm that the bank indeed is now the rightful owner of the apartment and should advise the collection agency and the condo board that the bank was the owner as of the date it took delivery of the documents. The bank would then be responsible for charges and fees from that date.
Leaving a Co-op Unit to Charity
Q I own a co-op and have no one to leave it to when I die. I would like to donate it to a charity. Do I have to advise my co-op board in advance or receive its permission? Or may I just state as much in a will?
A Jeffrey S. Reich, a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer, said that the co-op's proprietary lease would govern who may be entitled to own -- and who may reside in -- a co-op apartment upon the death of a shareholder.
''Most proprietary leases provide that a shareholder may bequeath his or her apartment to a spouse without the need for the consent of the board,'' Mr. Reich said. Moreover, he said, most leases provide that the co-op board will not unreasonably withhold consent to a transfer of the co-op shares and proprietary lease to a financially responsible member of the shareholder's family.
''All other bequests would be subject to the board's consent,'' he said.
So while a shareholder could bequeath the economic value of his or her apartment to a charity, the charity could not occupy the apartment without the board's consent. Mr. Reich added that given that general rule, it might be helpful if the writer asked the co-op board whether the charity he had in mind would be allowed to use the apartment. At the same time, he said, there is no guarantee that a future board would come to the same conclusion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); WRITERS (69%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



33 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''I think the state is turning a corner.''
Enrico Moretti, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley. After nearly five years of brutal economic decline, there is evidence of job growth, economic stability, a resurgent housing market and rising spirits in California, a state that was among the hardest-hit by the recession. 
''It is simultaneously too big to fail and too big to succeed.''
Todd Harrison, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a research group in Washington, discussing the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jet. With a price tag potentially in the hundreds of billions of dollars, the jet is likely to become a target for budget cutters. But he said Pentagon officials had little choice but to push ahead, especially after already spending $65 billion.
''We felt we could bring a little more to the party.''
Mark Hoffman, senior brand manager at Just Born Inc., which makes Peeps Easter chicks. The company is offering Peeps Candy Cane Flavored Dipped Marshmallow Chicks for the Christmas season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (54%)

COMPANY: JUST BORN INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



34 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: If Deal Is Not Reached, Impact Won't Be Instant

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - If Washington fails to reach a tax and spending deal by Jan. 1, paychecks will shrink as rates rise. But defense contractors will keep working. Parks and monuments will remain open. Financial markets will either slump or not.
America's fiscal condition will be altered without a deal between President Obama and the Republicans in Congress. But not radically so, and in many cases not immediately.
This budget stalemate is unlike the many previous ones that threatened to cause a government shutdown. Agencies are not facing the immediate loss of authority to spend money. The danger of defaulting on the nation's financial obligations is not at risk as it was during the 2011 impasse over raising the nation's borrowing limit. And some of the tax and spending changes would not be felt for months.
The president and his Democratic allies are still deeply nervous about life on the other side of the fiscal deadline, and they continue to say they are eager to avoid that possibility. But Mr. Obama's re-election victory and the few immediate implications from a breakdown in negotiations has emboldened them. 
Democrats are betting that if Washington wakes up without a tax and spending deal on New Year's Day, the country will heap blame on Congressional Republicans. In recent polls, more people said that it would be the fault of Republicans if a deal could not be reached.
Democrats in the House will seek to make that point again this week by trying to force Republicans to vote on a bill to extend tax cuts for the middle class but not the wealthy.
"Tax cuts for the rich, which do not create jobs, just increase the deficit, heaping mountains of debt onto future generations," Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, told reporters on Friday. She added that the economy would benefit greatly if "we do not go over the cliff."
But many Democrats also believe that failing to reach a deal for a brief period early next year would provide new leverage for Mr. Obama and a quick capitulation from Speaker John A. Boehner and his Republican colleagues on a package of tax cuts for the middle class and increased rates for the nation's wealthiest citizens.
Mr. Obama pressed his case confidently on Friday at a toy manufacturer in Pennsylvania. He warned that the Republicans' refusal to reach an acceptable deal by the end of the year would be "sort of like the lump of coal you get for Christmas."
And in a message to the millions of people subscribed to the White House e-mail list, David Plouffe, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, urged supporters to keep the pressure on lawmakers and warned of the dire consequences if the negotiators were unable to find common ground.
"Unless Congress acts, 114 million middle-class American families are staring down a tax increase starting January 1," Mr. Plouffe wrote in the e-mail.
But the lack of immediate consequences could also serve to empower Republicans to hold firm for days or weeks against a deal with the president, believing that the public would not exert the kind of political pressure that Democrats expect.
Without concrete ramifications, Mr. Obama's recent efforts to keep his campaign supporters energized about the tax and spending debate could fizzle.
Republicans could also conclude that people are more likely to blame Mr. Obama and his party for tax increases because it is Democrats who have been pushing for them.
In Washington at the end of last week, Republicans offered a defiant tone, scoffing at the president's proposal for $1.6 trillion in tax increases on the wealthy combined with new stimulus spending and other Democratic priorities. On Saturday, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah denounced what he called "radical" and "unserious" proposals by the president that he said represented an utter lack of leadership.
"Some on the other side of the aisle are advocating a disastrous 'Thelma & Louise' strategy," Mr. Hatch said in the weekly Republican radio address, referring to the movie heroines who drove their car off a cliff.
The ability of Republicans to maintain their position may depend on what actually happens if no deal is reached by the end of the year. Government officials, tax specialists and business representatives said they did not expect major implications right away.
Pentagon officials and military contractors said that billions of dollars in automatic spending reductions would be delayed for weeks, if not months, as they figured out where they needed to cut and by how much. Defense Department hiring would be stopped temporarily, officials said. But no one would be fired immediately, and no programs would end.
"While a hiring freeze is likely to be implemented quickly, it will take time to implement further budget cuts and the number and types of personnel to be furloughed," said Lt. Col. Elizabeth Robbins, a spokeswoman for the Defense Department.
Large companies that do business with the Pentagon are likely to wait for guidance before cutting back weapons programs or laying off civilian workers.
Parks, libraries and monuments would remain open in the new year, unaffected by the lack of a deal in the way that a budget stalemate threatens immediate closure. Government employees would show up for work whether or not they had been deemed "essential" to the operation of their agency.
Many workers would see their first paychecks in January shrink as employers adjust for higher payroll taxes. And the Internal Revenue Service would race to reprogram computers, possibly forcing an eventual delay in refunds. But tax preparation for 2012 would march forward as usual toward Jan. 22, when the I.R.S. is expected to begin processing electronic returns.
"There is this period in which Congress can continue to arm wrestle and wait for a settlement on this without affecting many people," said Bob Meighan, a vice president of TurboTax, which makes tax preparation software.
At the I.R.S., the biggest concern is about the alternative minimum tax, which would eventually force higher tax payments from about 60 million Americans unless the president and Republicans agree to adjustments like the ones that have been made regularly since 1969.
"There would be serious repercussions for taxpayers," Steven T. Miller, the acting commissioner of the I.R.S., wrote to lawmakers in November.
Among the murky uncertainties: what happens in the financial markets if a deal is not reached.
Some market watchers predict a huge sell-off of assets that would drain wealth from retirement plans and undermine consumer confidence. The Dow Jones industrial average has dropped almost 600 points since September, in part because of uncertainty about the presidential election and the ability of politicians to reach a deal on taxes and spending this year.
But the stock market has rebounded somewhat in the last two weeks. On Friday, investors shrugged off heightened partisan bickering in Washington a day earlier.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CHRISTMAS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



35 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Black and White In the Mississippi Delta

BYLINE: By GENE DATTEL. 
A native of Ruleville, Miss., and the author of ''Cotton and Race in the Making of America: The Human Costs of Economic Power.''

 BODY:
WATCHING the American political conversation over the last two years, you might easily have assumed that everything and everyone was working from the same playbook of partisan and racial polarization. That is, unless you were watching the Mississippi Delta, where, over the last few years, three towns -- Greenville, Greenwood and Indianola -- with overwhelmingly African-American populations elected white mayors.
The Delta, which lies roughly between the Yazoo and Mississippi Rivers, is a complex and historically star-crossed region. It has been majority black since the early 19th century, when its fertile land became the heart of the cotton kingdom and the chattel slavery system that exploited it. 
Today, America associates the region with blues music and civil rights history. Heritage markers throughout the Delta identify civil rights landmarks, including the site of the murder of Emmett Till and the grave of the activist Fannie Lou Hamer. The first pro-segregation Citizens Council was founded in Indianola -- which was also the boyhood home of B. B. King.
And, since the civil rights revolution, the Deep South has become a bastion of black political power: Mississippi has more black elected officials than any other state. But these men and women are invariably elected by majority-black districts, and those who win their positions tend to keep them.
The results are predictable. Politicians of any race who assume their seats are secure eventually lose touch with voters. Everyday needs go unmet; minor irritants like broken stoplights go unfixed. Problems multiply. Schools fall into disrepair. Crime rises. Populations decline.
This was exactly what happened in the towns of Greenville, Greenwood and Indianola. All three were falling apart, devastated by unemployment and decades of political neglect. And all three, each at least 65 percent black, overwhelmingly elected mayors who ran against the entrenched political system -- and who just happened to be white.
What's noteworthy is not so much that blacks elected whites -- though that's surely significant -- but that race wasn't an issue in the first place. To understand how, one needs to understand the personalities of these three officials.
All had deep Delta roots. Born in Yazoo City, Mayor Chuck Jordan of Greenville, population 34,000, was one of 11 students at the local Catholic parochial school. From there he went to Mississippi State University. A retired bank president and political independent, he knew the local businesses and was appreciated by both black and white citizens. As one black woman in Greenville said, ''He knows people.''
His zeal for the community was new and infectious, and he won over two-thirds of the vote in his 2011 mayoral race against a black candidate.
Mr. Jordan -- who died of pancreatic cancer in November, having learned about it just a few months earlier -- proved immensely popular and effective in office. After being ignored by the previous mayor, a black woman in Greenville was surprised when Mr. Jordan telephoned her to respond to her concern about a derelict vacant lot. He was succeeded by a well-respected white lawyer named John Cox.
A similar story unfolded in Indianola, population just 10,600. Mayor Steve Rosenthal's family came to the Delta from Eastern Europe at the turn of the last century. He attended the Indianola schools and graduated from the University of Memphis. Like most Delta Jews, his ancestors established a dry goods store, which Mr. Rosenthal owned and operated for years.
A store in a Delta town means daily interaction with both white and black residents; decades of relationships and civility engendered trust among Indianola's black population. Mr. Rosenthal, a Democrat, has run his administration the same way he ran his store: business-minded and community-focused.
Meanwhile, Mayor Carolyn McAdams was raised in Greenwood, population 15,000, and attended Mississippi State College for Women. Before her election, she worked for the housing agency in Greenwood and as an accountant for a private company. Her frequent professional contact with African-Americans made her transition to politics natural.
Interestingly, ''The Help,'' the popular movie that pilloried Southern white women, was filmed in Greenwood. But Ms. McAdams, like Mr. Jordan a political independent, hardly fits the caricatures presented in the film. While she was campaigning, an African-American woman picked her up and said, ''Honey, we've been waiting for you.'' Mayor McAdams has balanced the city's budget for the first time in years.
How could this happen in an area so identified with racial turmoil? It's easy: beneath the easy assumptions about racial animosity in the South, a different ethos prevails. The races interact daily in these small towns. Despite the oppressive Jim Crow system of the past, people know one another intimately. Trust, it turns out, trumps race. That doesn't mean racial tension doesn't exist. But there's a capacity to look beyond it, born of lifelong intimate contact, that's rarely found in larger cities.
Each of these towns experienced the civil rights movement. They also experienced mechanization, which displaced the black labor force. When the promise of the civil rights revolution was challenged by the realities of deindustrialization, hope was replaced by disappointment and disillusionment. The moral clarity of the struggle against legal segregation was replaced by de facto segregation and self-segregation -- a problem hardly unique to the South.
These problems still exist. The new mayors face the well-chronicled Delta debacle: unemployment, crime and poor education and health outcomes. No one has exaggerated expectations about solutions. Despite their new leaders' early promise, there is no guarantee that any of the towns will look different when the mayors leave office.
That, however, shouldn't detract from the importance of the moment. These elections illustrate that personal relationships can supersede race in a highly partisan time, when black and white too often become proxies for left and right. Of course, it took near-crisis situations to break the political status quo, and it may not happen again. But for once, race mattered less than community, in the least-expected place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Greenville Community Harmony Chorus was formed to promote racial unity in the city. From left, Dr. Loretta M. Shannon, Leanna Salley, Blanche Yee, Ruth Lockhart and Jean Pittman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RIVERS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); CANCER (69%); SLAVERY (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); JAZZ & BLUES (54%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



36 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A Stampede? Undoubtedly. An Economic Jolt? Maybe Not.

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE holiday shopping season started early, and with a roar. Whether that will help the sagging economy is another matter.
''Spending may well be strong, and that could help us get through another Christmas,'' said William R. Emmons, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. ''But the economy is unbalanced and we're still in an enormous crisis.''
So, despite the early crowds at shopping malls, it's worth noting that much of the consumption is being financed indirectly -- through the expansive monetary policies of the Fed, and through deficit spending that has created an enormous budget gap. ''At some point, we can't go on like this,'' Mr. Emmons said.
For now, the nation's retailers are doing their best to infuse the holidays with the spirit of consuming. ''Door-busting'' bargains began on Thanksgiving Day instead of on Black Friday, as had been the custom. Online discounts started weeks ago, and Cyber Monday, formerly a one-day event, is morphing into a consumption extravaganza unbound by space or time. 
''We're keeping the Cyber Monday party going all week long,'' Amazon.com said on its site on Thursday afternoon. Walmart declared that its site was ''the only place to go'' for Cyber Week. ''Shop now while supplies last,'' it said. And Target offered rapture: ''Get online-only deals all week. Oh joy!''
Over all, the efforts have yielded a mixed harvest. Some reports suggest that the early shopping has been robust, if not extraordinary. A survey for the National Retail Federation found that 247 million people did some shopping in the four days starting on Thanksgiving, up 9.2 percent from last year. Total spending reached $59.1 billion, up nearly 13 percent.
But a report on Thursday showed that overall sales at 16 retailers -- including chains like Macy's, Nordstrom, Kohl's and Target -- increased only 1.6 percent in November for stores open at least a year. Those figures included early holiday sales.
Furthermore, the financial crisis, the recession and the anemic recovery have constrained the appetites of many voracious consumers.
''History shows that people only have so much money to spend during the holidays,'' said Paul Dales, an economist at Capital Economics, a private forecasting group. ''And if they spend more of it on Black Friday, they'll probably spend less of it later in the season.''
In other words, while the hoopla of early sales may offer hints about the competitive advantages of specific retailers -- Amazon.com or Walmart, for example -- it may not mean much about consumer spending as a whole.
Real income is stagnating, and consumer spending dropped 0.2 percent in October, the Commerce Department reported on Friday. Even so, consumer spending accounts for 70.6 percent of gross domestic product, Mr. Emmons said -- a higher proportion than before the recession. That suggests a predicament for policy makers, he said, because high levels of consumer spending are associated with a relatively low pace of economic growth.
The economy needs more exports and investment, and less consumer spending, he said. ''We really could use a consumption tax to help increase household saving,'' he said. But with the economy as weak as it is, he acknowledged, such a tax would not be very popular in Washington.
Consumption during the holidays should be curbed for ecological, cultural and ethical reasons, said Kalle Lasn, co-founder of the Adbusters Media Foundation. He advocates transforming Black Friday into Buy Nothing Day -- ''a day to return to the roots of the holiday, to the frugality -- to living lightly -- which is really the essence of Christianity and of all great religions.'' Mr. Lasn, who helped start the Occupy Wall Street movement, called overconsumption a cause of climate change and other ills. ''It needs to stop,'' he said, ''before we destroy this planet.''
But efforts to curb consumer spending, especially in the holiday season, may run counter to deep habits and traditions. American holidays have been defined by an uneasy alliance among business, religion and politics, said Leigh Eric Schmidt, author of ''Consumer Rites: The Buying and Selling of American Holidays.''
''Commerce and religion and patriotism are all part of what we have come to know as the holidays,'' said Mr. Schmidt, a professor of humanities at Washington University in St. Louis.
''Consumption during the holiday season has come to have a kind of patriotic quality in the United States,'' he said. In fact, extending the holiday season, and exhorting people to spend, has sometimes been a matter of public policy.
IN 1939, during the Great Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt called Thanksgiving ''a perfectly movable feast'' -- and he moved up the holiday by one week, from its traditional date on the last Thursday of November. He thus proclaimed that Thanksgiving would be on Nov. 23 that year, not Nov. 30.
His agenda was transparent. The economy needed help. As an experiment, he said, he would try to give retailers a boost by extending the holiday season. But public opinion was no more unified then than it is now, and his policy was not universally welcomed.
The New York Times of Aug. 15, 1939, captured the mood: ''Roosevelt to Move Thanksgiving; Retailers for It, Plymouth Is Not. Football Schedule Makers Also Get a Headache, With Season Set to End With Fifth Thursday in November.''
The president's home state, New York, went along with the change, but Connecticut was among many that didn't. Families were divided. Eleanor Lucy Blydenburgh, a student at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, said that while her school holiday would be Nov. 23, her parents would celebrate on Nov. 30. ''Really, this situation makes my heart ache,'' she wrote the president, in a letter held by the Franklin D. Roosevelt Presidential Library.
What's more, as Roosevelt ruefully acknowledged in 1941, the extra days didn't stimulate the economy. There was no net increase in sales. ''The experiment had not worked,'' The Times reported in May 1941. People shifted their shopping days but didn't buy more.
Congress resolved the issue in time for Thanksgiving in 1942. It legislated that the holiday would henceforth be on November's fourth Thursday, which isn't always the last one.
That's why Thanksgiving this year was on Nov. 22, not last Thursday. So, once again, there are extra shopping days, as well as endless consumption opportunities online -- and reason to doubt that they will mean much for the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers poured into a shopping mall in Eugene, Ore., at the start of Black Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN DAVIES/THE REGISTER-GUARD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (72%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



37 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 39A

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Expect a Deal On Medicaid Despite Perry

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Despite Gov. Rick Perry's firm opposition to a central tenet of federal health reform -- expanding the state's Medicaid program for those with low incomes -- Texas Democrats remain optimistic that the 2013 legislative session can yield a deal that brings in billions of additional federal dollars.
It will be a tough sell: no Republican lawmaker has gone on record supporting the Medicaid expansion, which would add an estimated 1.8 million Texans to the joint state-federal health plan by 2022. 
But State Senator Rodney Ellis, Democrat of Houston, said fiscal conservatives have an incentive to reach an agreement ''because the alternative is going to cost us much more economically and dig a much deeper hole in our budget.'' Some Democratic lawmakers have already proposed legislation that would help them circumvent Mr. Perry or else produce a bipartisan compromise that might gain the Obama administration's support.
Under the Affordable Care Act, President Obama's health care overhaul, the federal government would cover 100 percent of the costs of expanding state Medicaid programs for three years, a share that would taper to 90 percent in later years. The Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan research group, estimated the expansion would cost Texas $5.7 billion from 2013 to 2022, which the organization called a modest price compared with the $65.6 billion that would be covered by the federal government.
The United States Supreme Court's ruling this summer allowing states to refuse to expand Medicaid gave Republican governors leverage to negotiate changes to the health care overhaul. And Mr. Perry holds the power to veto any legislation that would expand Medicaid in Texas.
''What the federal government needs to focus on is giving states more flexibility in delivering care,'' said Catherine Frazier, the governor's spokeswoman.
Mr. Ellis has filed a bill to put the option of Medicaid expansion on a statewide ballot as a provisional amendment to the Texas Constitution. Giving the deciding power to voters would relieve political pressure on Republican legislators and alleviate fear of a veto, he said.
Representative Garnet F. Coleman, Democrat of Houston, is also trying to provide a path toward Medicaid expansion. He plans to file an omnibus Medicaid bill that could be altered during the legislative session to incorporate Republicans' conditions for Medicaid expansion. One idea is co-insurance, Mr. Coleman said, which some Republicans have endorsed to get new Medicaid enrollees to pay a portion of their monthly health care premium.
Both political parties agree that Medicaid needs to be changed. In their 2011 budget negotiations, state legislators underfinanced Medicaid by $4.7 billion. And as the program's enrollment and costs grow, fewer providers are accepting Medicaid clients because of the state's low reimbursement rates.
Republicans say expanding Medicaid before it is overhauled will bankrupt the state or force lawmakers to redirect money from other areas of the budget, like education.
''To make the system work, we need permission from the federal government to do things like charge co-pays, promote access to private health insurance and encourage personal responsibility,'' Senator Jane Nelson, Republican of Flower Mound and chairwoman of the Senate Health and Human Services Committee, wrote in an editorial on her official Web site.
In an e-mail, Ms. Nelson said she could not support Medicaid expansion ''as directed by the Affordable Care Act.''
A representative of the federal Department of Health and Human Services said the agency ''is currently evaluating areas where there may be flexibility.''
If the state and the federal government cannot reach a deal to expand Medicaid in Texas, it is unclear whether any federal public assistance would be available to those people who would have qualified under the expansion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VETO (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



38 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Avoidable Collision Course

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
ECONOMIC relations in the euro zone amount to a game of chicken. Like car drivers aiming directly at one another, governments are challenging their counterparts to flinch first and give in. Unfortunately, the economic study of strategic behavior -- also known as game theory -- suggests that if you play chicken too many times, you will eventually crash the proverbial car.
To illuminate this crisis, imagine the day-to-day machinations of the euro zone as set in a broader bargaining struggle. There is continuing deal-making between the more solvent countries, like Germany, the Netherlands and Finland, and the more financially troubled countries, most prominently Greece, Portugal and Spain. The sounder countries aid the fiscally troubled ones, but also try to control those nations' spending, if only to limit potential future exposure through additional bailouts. Countries on both sides are seeking more favorable terms from these negotiations, which are often conducted through intermediate institutions like the European Central Bank and various bailout funds. 
In such a setting, the euro zone's mess could last for a long time, with neither solution nor dissolution.
When matters appear to improve, or when the troubled countries receive more aid, there is more slack in the system. The troubled countries respond by behaving less responsibly and, as a result, move the financial situation closer to the precipice again. For instance, when the European Central Bank announced its debt monetization plans, Spain's government suddenly faced lower borrowing rates and then refused to apply for a politically costly bailout and austerity package.
When matters become worse, the fiscally healthier countries pony up more aid, as we have seen them do repeatedly for Greece.
It is thus a mistake to overreact to most of the headline events about the euro zone crisis. The good news is never quite as good as it looks, and the bad news often brings beneficial responses. It seems that for dozens of months now, we've been hearing that the fate of the euro zone will be decided ''shortly,'' yet somehow the drama continues.
Unfortunately, longer-lasting solutions require coordinated agreement among many euro-zone nations and, possibly, the broader European Union. That would include significant debt write-offs (as the International Monetary Fund is suggesting), quick moves toward better-integrated European banking institutions, and a general agreement that the European Central Bank unconditionally support troubled debt securities without trying to manipulate home governments' policies.
Could all of that happen? For comparison, the current fiscal standoff in the United States involves no more than a president and two houses of Congress. In Europe, however, the bargaining is much more precarious, as it must span numerous nations, many of which have coalition governments, separation of powers and, in the case of Spain and Belgium, significant ethnic and linguistic division. The European Union has even had trouble concluding routine budget negotiations, the disputed parts of which concern no more than 0.03 percent of the union's gross domestic product.
On the bright side, the fact that markets haven't ended the European mess by themselves -- say, through a truly huge capital flight from the more troubled countries -- suggests that a solution does exist in principle, and may even take hold. That isn't much to cheer about, but, under the circumstances, even simple survival is positive news. One specific bright spot is that both Spain and Greece have been making some wage adjustments to restore longer-term competitiveness.
Until a broad solution is enacted, the system remains within the danger zone for a broader crash.
WHAT form could a crash take? Imagine a situation where the sounder countries need to put up more money, or the troubled countries need to make bigger financial adjustments, or -- most likely -- both. Yet power vacuums on each side, or voter rebellions against cross-national agreements, could stop these responses from being applied in a timely way. Political paralysis could then become the harbinger of disaster.
The mess won't be resolved until the various governments raise their hands and announce transparently just how much of the mess they will pay for -- and how. Such announcements will then need to be validated by elections. That means sending a consistent message to other countries and to their own domestic electorates and interest groups. Until then, the game of chicken will continue, and the risks of financial catastrophe will remain high.
Unfortunately, the relevant governments -- and their citizens -- still don't seem close to accepting the onerous financial burdens they need to face. And when those burdens are unjust to mostly innocent voters, no matter whose particular story you endorse, acceptance becomes that much tougher.
Still, we shouldn't forget that a solution exists. In essence, the required debt write-down is a large check lying on the table waiting to be picked up. No one knows how costly it is, but estimates have ranged from the hundreds of billions to the trillions of dollars. It need only be decided how to divide the bill. The reality is this: The longer that the major players wait, the larger that bill will grow. That they've yet to split the check is the worst news of all.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EURO (89%); BUDGETS (79%); EURO CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (93%); GREECE (88%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FINLAND (72%); PORTUGAL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



39 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Catch Pushes Widows Into Foreclosure

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Geraldine Bates lost her husband to kidney failure last year. Now, she has fallen behind on her mortgage payments and is terrified that she will lose her home in Jacksonville, Fla.
Ms. Bates, 70, is caught in a foreclosure trap that is ensnaring widows across America: she cannot get help lowering her payments until her name is added to the mortgage note, but the lender says she must be current on payments before that can happen.
''I keep praying,'' said Ms. Bates, who is fighting with the bank to stay in the four-bedroom house.
Just as the housing market is recovering, a growing group of homeowners -- widows over the age of 50 whose husbands alone were holders of the mortgage -- are losing their homes to foreclosure because of a paperwork flaw that keeps them from obtaining loan modifications. 
In the latest chapter of the foreclosure crisis, homeowners over 50 are falling into foreclosure at the fastest pace of any age group, according to nationwide data, in part because women are outliving their spouses and are unable to cope with cuts in their pensions, ballooning medical costs -- and the fine print on their mortgages.
While there are no exact measures of how many widows have entered foreclosure, figures compiled by AARP show the rate of foreclosures among people over 50 increased by 23 percent from 2007 to 2011, resulting in 1.5 million foreclosures.
A few lenders have tweaked their procedures to navigate the problem, and housing advocates are petitioning the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to devise guidelines for lenders in situations that involve surviving relatives. Banks say that while the volume of delinquent mortgages means that they need a blanket policy to cover all homeowners who are behind on their payments, they are willing to work closely with widows.
Still, interviews with elder-care advocates, housing lawyers and borrowers suggest that the problem is spreading fast, propelled by an aging population. Legal aid offices in California, Florida, Ohio and New York say it is among the top complaints from clients. Billy Howard, a consumer lawyer in Tampa, Fla., said he had more than two dozen cases involving widows, up from virtually none before 2007.
''These women are essentially invisible,'' said Gladys Gerson, a lawyer for Coast to Coast Legal Aid of South Florida.
At first glance, the issue seems little more than a logistical headache. To stay in the home, the surviving spouse needs to take over the mortgage. But to do that, most banks require that the borrower assuming the mortgage be up-to-date on payments. Housing advocates say that their clients, especially if one spouse experienced a prolonged illness, often find they are already thousands of dollars behind.
''Surviving spouses are trapped without a clear way to preserve their home,'' said Arabelle Malinis, a lawyer at Housing and Economic Rights Advocates in California.
The conundrum is pushing some widows into foreclosure by choking off a lifeline that could save their homes. As of 2011, 6 percent of loans held by people over 50 were delinquent, up from about 1 percent in 2007, according to a July study by AARP, an advocacy group for Americans over 50. The study, which housing lawyers say accurately describes the tide of foreclosures on seniors' homes, analyzed mortgage data over a five-year period.
Part of the problem, according to Debra Whitman, AARP's executive vice president for policy, is that older Americans are saving less and borrowing more. Debt for Americans ages 65 to 74 is outpacing any other group, according to the Federal Reserve.
Some help is on the way. JPMorgan Chase, for example, allows surviving relatives to complete a loan modification and mortgage assumption simultaneously. And the consumer bureau is finishing rules to provide tighter oversight of mortgage servicing companies, which collect payments from homeowners.
Housing advocates say most of their widowed clients still remain in their foreclosed homes.
The trouble for Ms. Bates, of Jacksonville, Fla., began after her husband Robert, a World War II veteran, died last February. Mr. Bates had obtained a trial loan modification but died before he could make the first payment. Determined to make good on the hard-won plan, Ms. Bates said she notified HSBC, the servicer, of her husband's death and sent in a check for $1,125.47.
Ms. Bates said she was devastated when the check was returned, with a letter explaining the money could not be accepted because she was not on the mortgage. Ms. Bates still owes roughly $131,000 on the original $140,000 mortgage. HSBC declined to comment on the case, but said in a statement, ''HSBC has a strong commitment to home preservation and regards foreclosure as a last resort.''
Complaints from widows about botched forms, unanswered calls and the peculiar frustration of being asked repeatedly by servicers for the same documents echo the concerns that culminated in a $26 billion settlement in February over other mortgage flaws with the country's five largest mortgage servicers.
While the process of obtaining a modification can be taxing for healthy homeowners, it can be virtually impossible for older borrowers, many of whom do not have the energy to get through the bureaucracy.
Maria Ginise, a 75-year-old widow, says she has developed dizzy spells from the stress of trying to save her mobile home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. When she and her husband, Joseph, left Connecticut, Ms. Ginise said, she dreamed of beach strolls and shuffleboard evenings. But, after her husband died in May 2009, those plans were derailed.
Ms. Ginise, whose only income is Social Security, could not afford payments on her $140,000 mortgage. Since her name was not on the mortgage, though, Wells Fargo, refused to work out a payment plan with her. Now, she faces foreclosure. A spokeswoman for Wells Fargo declined to comment on Ms. Ginise, but said in a statement that the bank reviewed ''all applicable, affordable options for customers facing financial difficulties.''
In Toledo, Ohio, Florence McKinney said her efforts to seek help with her monthly payments of $814.06 yielded only confusion. In April, for example, Ms. McKinney, 69 and a widow, said U.S. Bank sent a letter approving her husband, not her, for a loan modification. ''Dear Willie D. McKinney Sr.,'' the letter read. ''Congratulations!'' In August, she said, the bank refused her payments altogether. After questions from The New York Times, U.S. Bank said it had worked out a modification with Ms. McKinney. Ms. McKinney did not respond to a request for comment, but her lawyer said the bank had offered her a new modification.
Housing advocates have won reprieves for some homeowners, including Aurora MacDula, 80, in Vallejo, Calif., whose husband died last November. She said when she first contacted Wells Fargo, the servicer, to pay the mortgage, a representative refused to talk to her because she was not on the loan.
In August, with the help of her lawyer, Ms. MacDula got a temporary loan modification and is paying $1,733.21 a month. The problem, advocates say, is that most distressed widows do not have the benefit of legal aid.
Ms. Malinis, with the housing advocacy group in California, said: ''We stay up thinking of the ones who we don't know about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maria Ginise, left, says she has developed dizzy spells from the stress of trying to save her mobile home from foreclosure in Deerfield Beach, Fla. In Toledo, Ohio, Florence McKinney said her efforts to seek help with her home payments yielded only confusion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MADALYN RUGGIERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); LAWYERS (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); AGING TRENDS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ELDER LAW (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); LEGAL AID (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



40 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 2520 words

HEADLINE: Gardening

BYLINE: By DOMINIQUE BROWNING. 
Dominique Browning is the senior director of MomsCleanAirForce.org. She blogs at SlowLoveLife.com.

 BODY:
Several years ago, I visited a friend at her home in the South of France, which was surrounded by an olive grove. She had just come through a grueling battle with breast cancer, and the peaceful countryside was a consolation. As we set out for a walk, she encouraged me to wrap my arms around a gnarled olive trunk: ''Go ahead, I do it all the time.'' I hadn't sized up this elegant woman as a tree hugger, and even though I'm one by profession I'd never actually done it. Well, not that anyone could see. . . . I sidled up awkwardly. ''Do you feel it?'' my friend asked. ''Do you feel that . . . energy?'' I did. 
We don't have the reverence for trees that we once had. In ''The Golden Bough,'' Sir James Frazer describes ''the ferocious penalty'' in ancient German law that was exacted from anyone who dared even to remove a strip of bark: ''The culprit's navel was to be cut out and nailed to the part of the tree which he had peeled, and he was to be driven round and round the tree till all his guts were wound about its trunk.'' A tad extreme, perhaps, to modern ears. Still, something is profoundly amiss in these days of wanton clear-cutting. Luckily, there are those who feel compelled to remind us of the tree's noble status, inspiring a wealth of homages to these great beings -- and I use the word ''beings'' advisedly.
So does Jim Robbins, who argues that ''trees and forests are the highest functioning members of ecological society.'' His absorbing, eloquent and loving book, THE MAN WHO PLANTED TREES: Lost Groves, Champion Trees, and an Urgent Plan to Save the Planet (Spiegel & Grau, $25), chronicles the adventures of a veritable Noah of the tree world, David Milarch, a Michigan nurseryman who, following a near-death experience, began a quest to locate and save genetic material from some of the oldest and healthiest specimens. Thus the Champion Tree Project was born, with a goal of cloning the champion of each of 826 species of trees in the United States. Not since 1997, when Julia Butterfly Hill climbed a 1,500-year-old redwood and lived in it for two years to spare it from loggers, has one person done more to save trees.
Robbins, a Montana journalist who first described the project in The New York Times, writes of his own awakening -- when he realized ''that North America's cordillera, the mountains that extend from Alaska to northern New Mexico, and that include my patch of forest, were ground zero for the largest die-off of forests in recorded history.'' While Robbins's tone is urgent, it doesn't compromise his crystal-clear science. His descriptions highlight the interdependence of trees not only with their immediate surroundings -- the rhizosphere, ''the vast complex root system and the soil and the microorganisms affecting, and affected by, the roots'' -- but also with the planet as a whole, explaining the vital work performed by trees in cleaning pollutants from the air and absorbing some of the extra carbon that's throwing off our climate's balance, causing global warming. And he describes how trees serve as guardians of our fresh water systems. Even the smallest details here are fascinating: learning, for instance, that the salicylic acid (a compound in aspirin) from black willows helps fish fight infection.
Robbins's approach is a solid counterweight to Milarch's unique, and equally crystal clear, spiritual vision. ''Call them light beings, plant devas, earth spirits, or angels,'' he insists, speaking of his conviction that trees have their own guardian angels. ''Americans are about the only ones who don't believe in such things. . . . We treat the earth like it's dead, which allows us to do what we want, but it's not dead.'' Such talk naturally increases Robbins's skepticism. But regardless of what drives Milarch, he has cloned -- or coaxed seedlings from -- some of the world's oldest trees, including the 4,800-year-old bristlecone pine called Methuselah, as well as an Oriental plane tree known as the Hippocrates Tree, beneath which the father of medicine is said to have taught his students. Milarch's faith is steadfastly maintained, despite financial and political challenges. Somehow his guardian angels -- and ours -- keep this worthy project alive.
Designers often talk about the bones of a good garden, and winter is an excellent time to appreciate the skeletal structure of our landscape, the strongest part of which isn't stone walls -- it's trees. So why not spend your winter in the company of these true masters of the universe?
THE POWER OF TREES (Trinity University, $12.95), by Gretchen C. Daily, with photographs by Charles J. Katz Jr., is a deceptively slim volume that will inspire frequent rereading. The authors' intention is expressed in their epigraph from the Tibetan master Sogyal Rinpoche: when you meditate on a tree, ''you will find that it dissolves into an extremely subtle net of relationships that stretches across the universe.''
In other words, if you're of a mind to cut down a tree to see more of the horizon, consider that the tree itself offers a limitless view. Daily, a conservation biologist, and her friend Katz visited the Skagit River region in Washington State, where Daily found consolation during the slow death of her father. The lyrical little book she has written in the aftermath is a window into the world of ''the longest-lived organisms on Earth,'' a way of transcending pain through an appreciation of what's right in front of you. We can, she reminds us, read the past in a tree's rings, as we would read the pages of a book.
Daily introduces us to the Great Banyan Tree, ''a single individual in Calcutta with about 3,000 trunks . . . spanning an area of 1.5 acres.'' Thanks to her, we learn about a colony of aspens in Utah called Pando: 47,000 trees, genetically identical, connected by a massive root system. ''Pando is thought to be the heaviest organism on Earth,'' Daily writes, ''weighing an estimated 7,275 tons and spanning about 100 acres. The whole colony appears to be at least 80,000 years old.'' The small black and white photographs in ''The Power of Trees'' have a timeless quality. At first, I was annoyed that Daily and Katz provide no captions, but gradually it dawned on me that such distinctions can be a way to distance ourselves from the tribe of trees, whose power is indeed awesome.
Trees don't always need authors to describe them (and we won't even go near the subject of why trees must die for mediocre books). Given half a chance, trees can tell their own stories, not only in their rings but in the way they pose for the camera. The photographer Larry Lederman has teased out the shyer sorts, celebrated the big shots and altogether captured their charm, sass and elegance in MAGNIFICENT TREES OF THE NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (Monacelli/New York Botanical Garden, $50). As Gregory Long, president of this National Historic Landmark, writes in his foreword, ''some of these specimens are actually landmarks themselves'' -- like the double allée of tulip trees planted 110 years ago.
Lederman has returned to some of the 250-acre garden's 30,000 trees in every season, capturing his favorites in the light of dawn and dusk. This book is beautiful, but it will also be useful to any gardener puzzled about what to add to her landscape. Currently on my wish list because of Lederman's photographs are the sawtooth oak, the American fringetree and the little-leaf linden, a stalwart on city streets because it stands up so well to urban pollution -- but whose beauty really emerges when it has room to spread. I was very taken with the handsomely burled Siberian elm, but my heart belongs to a senior white oak, photographed in winter, its graceful canopy arching over a rocky outcropping. If Lederman's book doesn't send you straight to the nursery, it should at least give you a good reason to visit the New York Botanical Garden, a national treasure nestled in the heart of the Bronx.
Normally, I don't much like monographs that deal with a single garden. They're often produced by people with more money than taste, and haven't we seen enough of that for a lifetime? But LA FORMENTERA: The Woodland Refuge of Juan Montoya (Monacelli, $65) proves the splendid exception to my rule. Our able guide is Karen Lehrman Bloch, who recollects her first impression of this landscape: ''I am on sacred ground.'' Thanks to Eric Piasecki's photographs, there are ideas in this estate garden in Garrison, N.Y., that can be adapted to any scale: the stony path cut low into the ground, the elegant chute of water draining into a simple basin, the bamboo banisters, the ferns in giant pots.
We have much to learn from the patrons of the decorative and gardening arts. Montoya has allowed the woodland to speak for itself; he has expanded its canvas, clearing out bramble to let tall trunks lead the eye into the distance, placing simple log benches in the woods to invite the visitor to rest. The winter pictures are especially inspiring. This is gardening with confidence -- with the belief that the best way to let nature shine is to edit rather than embellish. And the glimpses we get of a house filled with art and books -- a perfect complement to the woodland refuge -- make one want to settle in for a spell. Which is exactly what anyone's house and garden, no matter how small, ought to do.
A theme that runs through much of the current writing on trees is how much more scientists need to learn about them. A figure as venerable as E. O. Wilson writes, in his foreword to LONGLEAF, FAR AS THE EYE CAN SEE: A New Vision of North America's Richest Forest (University of North Carolina Press, $35), ''I realized how little I really knew -- . . . and how much more remained for science to discover -- about the American South's signature tree.'' And he's from Alabama, in the heart of longleaf pine country. I didn't know much about the longleaf either, but that's what books are for, isn't it? A fascinating and exquisite new world of astonishing biodiversity is opened up for the reader in ''Longleaf,'' in which Bill Finch, Beth Maynor Young, Rhett Johnson and John C. Hall describe a savanna that originally covered 92 million acres of the southeastern United States. As Wilson points out, it has ''played critical roles in American history, economy and culture. But it is almost gone.''
The photograph of mixed-age Georgia longleaf with a wiregrass understory shimmers with light, its vertical lines penciling into a distant haze. I lost several hours paging through the evocative pictures in this book, and the text is equally absorbing. Longleaf stumps holding up houses for a century ''are still solid as a rock,'' while the oak frames have collapsed. ''But when you try to imagine the trees those stumps once supported . . . it's like trying to imagine the ocean while eating fish sticks.''
We don't know what we're missing, but we can at least appreciate what remains. The longleaf has a near-mythic ability to survive intense fires. If only for the sake of its denizens -- the jaunty nocturnal spadefoot toad, the elegant bluebird, the demure mole salamander, the vibrant white-topped pitcher plants -- we must hope that the longleaf remains with us for centuries longer. One provocative but sensibly workable key to its survival is presented by Bob Farrar, who, with the Longleaf Alliance, suggests the possibility of a conservation partnership with landowners who have ''an incentive to grow and market longleaf timber.'' In other words, if you keep planting trees, even to cut some of them down, that will ensure the survival of the species. Farrar makes an eloquent case for the superiority of the longleaf, a tree so remarkable, he insists, that ''we don't deserve'' it. No tree could have a better advocate.
What of those of us who don't have much land, or any land at all? Are we to be denied our trees? Not if the Japanese ''green designer'' Kenji Kobayashi has anything to say about it. In KESHIKI BONSAI: The Easy, Modern Way to Create Miniature Landscapes (Timber Press, paper, $19.95), he claims to have invented a new sort of bonsai for a new generation of city dwellers who have neither the time, the resources nor the patience for the ''stale, excessively intricate diversion'' of classical bonsai. I think he judges his forebears too harshly, but youth may be its own excuse. And I must admit that after reading his book I'm ready to try my hand at one of the garden arts I had considered beyond my ability.
Keshiki is a form of landscape bonsai in which miniature forests are planted in small vessels, some the size of a teacup. Of course, classical bonsai artists also create illusions of landscape; that's a mark of true mastery. But I'm not one to quibble about such distinctions; bonsai by any name is a lovely, gracious, soul-enriching enterprise. The charm of Kobayashi's work is its quick payoff: his plantings don't take generations to mature, and they're relatively easy to create. In a series of step-by-step projects, he provides readers with clear, straightforward instructions, nicely illustrated. As an added bonus, he introduces us to some of his friends, artisans who work in iron, clay, papier-mâché and fabric. Kobayashi also writes of the pleasures of good conversation, home cooking, simple living. One gets a nice feel for his enchanting personal landscape, a sort of bonsai gestalt that may inspire many more trees to be grown in Brooklyn.
I've avoided botanical Latin throughout this essay, and that will set many a gardener's teeth on edge. For those who want a better understanding of plant taxonomy, LATIN FOR GARDENERS: Over 3,000 Plant Names Explained and Explored (University of Chicago, $25), by Lorraine Harrison, is a treasure.
Phlox divaricata, she writes, will have ''a spreading and straggling habit''; abortivus means ''incomplete, with parts missing''; something that is ramiflorus will have ''flowers on the older branches'' (a good thing to know when pruning); and, not surprisingly, anything aromaticus will be fragrant, so plant it near a window. Sprinkled throughout are short biographies of notable plantsmen, along with stories about interesting plants. The mighty oak, Quercus, about which there are so many legends and superstitions, was sacred to the ancient Druids. And when you see quercifolia on that plant tag, you'll know the hydrangea you're coveting has leaves like an oak. Digitalis, so toxic it's known as ''dead man's bells,'' is one of my favorites. Remember the tale about the gloves a fox dons to keep his prints off the henhouse door, and the one about the fairies who wore these blossoms on their hands? ''The Latin name comes from digitus, meaning finger,'' Harrison writes. So the folklore isn't far off the mark -- as usual.
Whether in Latin or English, this season our thanks should go to the writers and photographers who speak for the trees. But we must also heed the warnings of the scientists and recognize the peril faced by these majestic beings. Plant more trees. And go ahead, hug them too. Gretchen Daily deserves the last word: ''Trees define our lives and the future of humanity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From ''Latin for Gardeners.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, LINDLEY LIBRARY)
 An ancient white oak from ''Magnificent Trees of the New York Botanical Garden.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY LEDERMAN) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); BREAST CANCER (73%); WRITERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



41 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; HOLIDAY BOOKS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 2553 words

HEADLINE: Travel

BYLINE: By JOSHUA HAMMER. 
Joshua Hammer, a former Newsweek bureau chief, is a freelance foreign correspondent. He is writing a book about German colonialism in southern Africa.

 BODY:
This season's travel books abound with journeys inspired by literary lions -- a trip to a Greek island in pursuit of the teachings of Epicurus, a hike along the river where Virginia Woolf died, an excursion to the birthplace of the Nigerian writer Ken Saro-Wiwa. And not every excursion is highbrow: one of the best books of the bunch is partly a homage to Bobby Troup, the lyricist who wrote the 1946 hit ''(Get Your Kicks on) Route 66.'' 
Noo Saro-Wiwa's LOOKING FOR TRANSWONDERLAND: Travels in Nigeria (Soft Skull/Counterpoint, paper, $15.95) is the remarkable chronicle of a journey home from exile. Many years after her father, the playwright, poet and environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa, was hanged by the military regime of General Sani Abacha, Saro-Wiwa returns to her native land from her home in England to see what, if anything, has changed. ''There had to be more besides the media reports of kidnappings and the scam e-mails from 'Sani Abacha's wife' wanting to split her millions with me,'' she writes before setting off on an odyssey from Lagos to the Muslim north to her birthplace in the oil-rich Niger Delta. ''I found myself . . . voyaging to this final frontier that has perhaps received fewer voluntary visitors than outer space.''
For the first time since Nigeria's independence in 1960, one democratic government has succeeded another. Yet the country remains ''a nation of ruffians,'' awash in corruption and plagued by epic mismanagement and decrepitude. ''If Lagos were a person,'' Saro-Wiwa observes of Nigeria's brash economic capital, ''she would wear a Gucci jacket and a cheap hair weave, with a mobile phone in one hand, a second set in her back pocket and the mother of all scowls on her face.'' Saro-Wiwa finds beauty in a northern bird sanctuary and is entranced by Nigeria's exuberant dancing and music, but her tour through ruined amusement parks, depleted game reserves and festering cities ravaged by gang warfare and Christian-Muslim violence reveals a dystopia well worth avoiding. Too many Nigerians, she concludes, take their moral cue from the country's politicians, who have ''clubbed, kicked and clawed their way to power'' and then ''plunge elbow deep into our government tills with breathtaking abandon.''
In ROUTE 66 STILL KICKS: Driving America's Main Street (Skyhorse, paper, $16.95), Rick Antonson explores the highway that came to symbolize American mobility and rootlessness in the first half of the 20th century. In Chicago, Antonson and a companion rent a silver Mustang convertible -- their version of the Corvette driven by Martin Milner and George Maharis in the TV series ''Route 66'' -- then follow fragments of the mostly disused highway across eight states to Los Angeles. The journey brings them face to face with a lost America: ghostly motor courts, rusted gas stations, towns nearly abandoned after the Interstate Highway Act made Route 66 obsolete. They become mired in mud on unpaved stretches of road, bicker over missed turnoffs and bad hotel choices, and meet a host of people whose lives have ''dead ended in the same way'' as the roads.
Antonson breaks from this adventure to recall Route 66's glory days. He tells the story of Cyrus Avery, an Oklahoma entrepreneur who persuaded the government to stitch together bike paths, auto club roads and pieces of existing highways into a cross-country route. He looks back engagingly on the lives of Woody Guthrie, Mickey Mantle and Will Rogers, all of whom grew up near Route 66 and traveled it on their way to becoming American icons. And he shines light on Route 66's dark side, including Al Capone's liquor runs. Antonson anoints John Steinbeck, whose ''Grapes of Wrath'' chronicled the exodus of Okies from the Dust Bowl, as the road's poet laureate. Route 66 was ''the mother road,'' Steinbeck wrote, ''the main migrant road . . . waving gently up and down on the map . . . over the red lands and the gray lands, twisting up into the mountains.'' Seeking to explain its continued allure, Antonson aptly calls this ribbon of asphalt ''one long, rambling sentence that describes America.''
TO THE RIVER: A Journey Beneath the Surface (Canongate, paper, $13.95) pays tribute to another legendary artery with literary associations: the River Ouse in Sussex, where Virginia Woolf drowned herself in March 1941. Dejected and unmoored after the breakup of a relationship, the British journalist Olivia Laing sets out on a ramble from the river's source in ''a copse of oak and hazel not far from Haywards Heath'' to its mouth at Newhaven on the English Channel. ''Unlike a lake or sea, a river has a destination and there is something about the certainty with which it travels,'' Laing observes with typical insight, ''that makes it very soothing, particularly for those who've lost faith with where they're headed.''
Laing finds the pastoral setting and the river's flow restorative. But she also encounters a region haunted by ghosts. At the site of the Battle of Lewes in 1264, which pitted Henry III against the doomed rebel and reformer Simon de Montfort, she walks across meadows that have grown over the marshes where many of Montfort's knights drowned in muck. Visiting the home of Woolf and her husband, Leonard, she contemplates Woolf's literary obsession with ''immersion and submersion, about going under and being washed away'' -- and speculates on how it foretold her death. ''She was wearing Wellington boots and her hat remained wedged on by a string of elastic tied beneath her chin,'' she writes of Woolf's body, which was fished from the Ouse three weeks after she descended into its cold, swift current.
Yet much of Laing's writing feels overwrought, and her descriptions of the natural world can seem repetitive. Thinking back on her broken romance, she compares herself and her lover to Greek sailors lured by the sirens to their deaths on the rocks of the Aegean, destined to wind up ''petrified, until the hide rotted from our bones.'' Even the simple act of eating a Mr. Whippy ice cream can inspire mythological references: ''I wondered as I licked it if this was the corollary to the pomegranate seeds that Hades spooned into Persephone's mouth, the food that would entrap me in the mortal realm.''
In TRAVELS WITH EPICURUS: A Journey to a Greek Island in Search of a Fulfilled Life (Penguin, $20), Daniel Klein follows in the footsteps of another intellectual giant. The 73-year-old Klein plants himself on the island of Hydra on a quest ''to figure out the most satisfying way to live this stage of my life.'' Klein comes armed with a copy of the Greek philosopher Epicurus' ''Art of Happiness,'' which views old age as the ''pinnacle of life'' and urges those in their later years to slow down, surrender their competitive instincts and savor the joys of being alive.
Sitting on the terrace of a taverna and meandering up steep mountain paths, Klein easily adjusts to the Epicurean rhythms of rural Greek life: ''Moving slowly has a grace to it that I find I can easily settle into. I feel fluent in slow motion.'' He mocks the ''forever young movement,'' the tendency of many people to cling to their youth through breast implants or testosterone patches, and advises them not to dwell on the prospect of what he calls ''old old age,'' when the body and mind disintegrate. ''Perhaps authentic old age,'' he writes in this often insightful meditation, ''can consist of neither the breathless ambition of the forever youngster nor . . . unremitting despair . . . but something meaningful in itself.''
HOW WE FORGOT THE COLD WAR: A Historical Journey Across America (University of California, $34.95), by Jon Wiener, is a political argument masquerading as a travel yarn. A professor of history at the University of California, Irvine, Wiener visits cold war memorials and historic sites, seeking to debunk claims that the United States-Soviet conflict was a heroic struggle on a par with World War II. This effort, he writes, has been met with ''public indifference, skepticism and apparent resistance to what historians have called 'cold war triumphalism.' '' Wiener recounts the doomed attempt to build a $100 million Victims of Communism Museum in Washington and comically searches the Maryland countryside for the pumpkin patch exhibit commemorating Whittaker Chambers, the anti-Communist whose testimony exposed Alger Hiss as a Soviet spy in a case that boosted the career of then-Congressman Richard Nixon. ''Like other cold war commemorative efforts,'' Wiener notes, after tracking down the bronze plaque to an unmarked barn that receives an average of two visitors a year, ''the pumpkin patch National Historic Landmark is remarkable primarily as a failure.''
The problem, Wiener argues in this persuasive yet sometimes heavy-handed polemic, is that the cold war was no Manichaean struggle pitting the American white hats against a black-hatted Evil Empire. Rather, it was an ambiguous showdown between two superpowers driven by self-interest and geopolitical competition. Wiener's accounts of his trips to nuclear test sites, missile-launching control centers and fallout shelter exhibits contrast the guides' cheerful patter with the prospect of Armageddon, and his visit to a former plutonium processing plant serves as a reminder of the environmental costs of the arms race. His journey ends at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, which stands as a stark rebuttal to those who have glorified the proxy wars fought in the name of defeating Communism. ''It is the one monument of the cold war era that resolutely denies a triumphant interpretation of the conflict. With its sunken black granite walls carrying the names of all 58,000 Americans who died in the war, the memorial steadfastly refuses to celebrate heroism in a battle between good and evil.''
Condé Nast Traveler magazine has a knack for matching author to subject. THE CONDÉ NAST TRAVELER BOOK OF UNFORGETTABLE JOURNEYS: Volume II, Great Writers on Great Places (Penguin, paper, $16), edited by Klara Glowczewska, features a preponderance of urban adventures, from Jay McInerney's exploration of Amsterdam to Pico Iyer's inquiry into religious zealotry in Jerusalem, ''City of God, City of Men.'' One of the best entries is Robert Hughes's ''Liberation of Sydney,'' in which the Australian art critic returns to his boyhood home and finds that the city's reputation for ''un-self-conscious masculinity'' has mellowed: ''Sydney is no longer quite so keen on the Ocker (Pacific redneck) image of the Australian: beer gut, thongs, nasal foghorn voice and a truculent certainty that, short of Paradise itself, Australia is the only ticket.'' Instead, Hughes finds a city brimming with sophistication, from galleries celebrating indigenous art to the Sydney Opera House, whose ''form suggested blown spinnakers, birds' wings, seashells, all that was appropriate to the great port.''
In another fine essay, Julia Reed serves up her own tasty take on New Orleans four years after Katrina, reclaiming its identity as a city devoted to pleasure. Tracing New Orleans's fondness for libations, she describes a visit during Prohibition by a federal agent named Isidore Einstein, sent to test how easily he could obtain alcohol. Notes Reed: ''A scant 37 seconds elapsed between the time Einstein stepped off the train and the moment he held a drink in his hand.''
The indefatigable Pico Iyer is fond of setting off on pilgrimages, and he takes another to the Indian holy city of Varanasi in one of the many exuberant essays found in THE BEST AMERICAN TRAVEL WRITING 2012 (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $14.95), edited by William T. Vollmann. Wandering along the ghats, the steps by the Ganges where Hindus cremate their dead, Iyer discovers not a ''Shangri-La of calm, but a place where purity and filth, anarchy and ritual, unquenchable vitality and the constant imminence of death all flow together.'' As he has demonstrated in books like ''Video Night in Kathmandu,'' Iyer is drawn to such crossroads of the world, places where religious acolytes, backpackers and various footloose types make dizzying connections. ''He looked back at me and casually nodded,'' Iyer writes, describing an encounter with a white-haired gnome at Asi Ghat, ''and I realized that it was a German singer of Sufi ghazals whom I had last seen in the Tiergarten in Berlin, talking of Ethiopia and Mali.''
Luke Dittrich makes a more somber but no less vivid journey in an essay called ''Walking the Border.'' Traveling on foot from the coast of California to Ajo, Ariz., he wheels a baby carriage filled with food and water across desert tracks and camps in gulches frequented by drug mules and illegal immigrants. ''I go and gather up everything I think I might be able to use as a weapon, including the pepper spray, a knife and some hiking poles,'' he writes of one sleepless night in his tent. ''Lying there in the dark, watching vague shadows on the polyester, it feels like a world of unknowns is outside pressing in.'' A different kind of creepiness infuses ''The Reckoning,'' by Kenan Trebincevic, a Muslim refugee who returns to his former apartment in Bosnia for the first time since the Balkan War. There he confronts a neighbor who stole from his mother just before the family was driven out by Serb thugs: ''As she approached our floor, her footsteps became halting, her breathing heavy. She fumbled for her key. Her eyes didn't meet mine. 'No one has forgotten,' I said. She put her head down.''
In the winter of 1922, Agatha Christie, then a promising young novelist, joined her husband, Archie, on a trip around the world as part of a marketing campaign for an international trade fair. THE GRAND TOUR (Harper/HarperCollins, $29.99), edited by Christie's grandson, Mathew Prichard, documents that 10-month boondoggle with newspaper clippings, Christie's photos and letters she sent home to her mother in England. This scrapbook provides an intermittently fascinating look at the British Empire in its twilight, and Christie's characterizations of her companions often sparkle with humor. The junket's leader, a retired army officer, was ''rude, overbearing, bullying, inconsiderate and mean in curiously small matters,'' she writes, describing how he would dispatch her at every stop to buy him ''white cotton socks or other necessities of underwear'' and never reimburse her. When angry, ''he began to swell up slowly and go red in the face like a turkey cock. . . . When he was in a good humor, he told lion stories, of which he had a large stock.''
But the traveling party's itinerary -- luncheons with local officials and tours of coal mines, power stations, farms and factories -- soon grows dreary. And Christie displays a stunning lack of curiosity about the world beyond her colonial bubble. (She spends two months in South Africa and Rhodesia without a single recorded comment about race relations.) But the tour winds to a lively close with the Christies breaking away for a private vacation in Hawaii, where they enjoy the surf and unwittingly roast in the tropical sun. ''We have tried all remedies -- anointing ourselves with coconut oil, whitening, peroxide cream etc.,'' she writes of their agonies. ''Finally A. has taken to bathing in pajamas, to the intense amusement of the natives who roll about in ecstasies of mirth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A burger box from ''Route 66 Still Kicks'' and, top, a nuclear test site from ''How We Forgot the Cold War.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER ARMSTRONG
CENTER FOR LAND USE INTERPRETATION)
 From ''The Grand Tour'': Agatha Christie in Hawaii. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE ARCHIVE TRUST) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (78%); SONG WRITING (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); GANGS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); BIRDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (90%) HAWAII, USA (79%) NIGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (90%); NIGER (79%); ENGLAND (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



42 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Football

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS. 
John Williams produces the Books section for NYTimes.com.

 BODY:
THE DALLAS COWBOYSThe Outrageous History of the Biggest, Loudest, Most Hated, Best Loved Football Team in America
By Joe Nick PatoskiIllustrated. 805 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $29.99.
We might pause right here at the start to wonder about the potential audience for an 800-page history of the Dallas Cowboys. If ''football mad'' is the first adjective you would use to describe Big D, many more will scroll by before you get to ''bookish.'' As Joe Nick Patoski writes, this is a city ''all about tearing down the past'' that can count, among its other achievements, an early rivalry with Houston for the title of ''boob-job capital of America.''
Then again, even the N.F.L. was initially a hard sell in northeast Texas. The entrenched Lone Star tradition of packing high school and college football stands on Fridays and Saturdays didn't leave a lot of energy for Sundays. The city's first iteration of a professional franchise, the Dallas Texans in 1952, drew so little interest that the team was banished to practice in Hershey, Pa., and play in Akron, Ohio, in the middle of its inaugural (and only) season. 
The Cowboys fared a little better. Clint Murchison Jr., the son of an oil baron, invested $600,000 to start the team in 1960. After surviving competition from another crew named the Texans -- this one in the upstart American Football League -- it went on to win five Super Bowls, redefine the art of cheerleading and inspire the equal levels of adoration and resentment reserved for arrogant conquerors everywhere. The current owner, Jerry Jones, paid $140 million for the team in 1989. Forbes recently valued the 'Boys at a manly $2.1 billion.
Jerry Seinfeld once joked that given all the personnel changes over the years, remaining loyal to a sports team is a silly proposition: ''You're actually rooting for the clothes, when you get right down to it. . . . You are standing and cheering and yelling for your clothes to beat the clothes from another city.'' On one hand, this is a problem for Patoski, since generations of Cowboys aren't bound together by a single narrative strand, or even a dozen of them. Only by clothes. So a comprehensive history of the team is at an inherent disadvantage against narrower slices -- say, Jeff Pearlman's ''Boys Will Be Boys,'' which covers the team's frequent victories and tabloid appearances in the 1990s with the frictionless verve of glossy-magazine vernacular. Or John Eisenberg's ''Ten-Gallon War,'' published just one week before Patoski's book, which chronicles the early battle with the Texans for the Dallas fan base.
On the other hand, the 50-year scope offers an instructive time-lapse view of America's jock culture: from the 1970s star quarterback Roger Staubach, who asked for a station wagon instead of a sports car after being named M.V.P. of Super Bowl VI, to the current quarterback Tony Romo, who took fire from fans when he jetted to Mexico with Jessica Simpson just before the start of the 2008 playoffs. And from the legendary coach Tom Landry, who said about his deep religious convictions, ''I have no doubt that there is something other than man himself that leads man,'' to Jones, who once reflected, ''If I was going to be in the foxhole with somebody, I'd be there with me.''
Whether or not it's an illusion based on high visibility, the franchise seems to have attracted more than its share of outsize characters. Gathering them all in one book makes for a raucous reunion. In 1971, the running back Duane Thomas fell into a silence for weeks after asking a reporter, ''Haven't you ever felt like not saying anything?'' He spoke to the media through the former football star Jim Brown after that season's Super Bowl. (Brown: ''Duane says he feels good today.'') A vow of silence would have been a good strategy for the offensive lineman Nate Newton, a key part of the team's '90s dynasty. He told the press, of the days leading up to Super Bowl XXX in 1996: ''The Tempe police gave us a list of places not to go, and there's where I went. I like wicked, dude.'' And in perhaps the least publicity-conscious moment in American history, he said this about the ''White House,'' a designated five-bedroom hangout where Cowboys could get wicked, dude: ''We've got a little place over here where we're running some whores in and out, trying to be responsible, and we're criticized for that, too.''
Patoski notes that the linebacker Lee Roy Jordan and three other white players went to a team Halloween party in 1970 dressed as members of the K.K.K., which was somehow less odd than the explanation for it. ''I felt I needed some way to show the blacks on the team, especially those from the West Coast, that color meant nothing to this ol' Alabama boy,'' Jordan said. Mission . . . accomplished?
Unfortunately, Patoski sets no limits for himself in the anecdotes department. Information, once learned, will be shared. He knows the rest of the costumes worn to that party, so we're told that ''Larry Cole was the Jolly Green Giant; Ron Widby came as Frankenstein.'' The minutiae of the team's media changes are also set down for the record, like the fact that Rick Weaver, ''an announcer from the West Coast by way of Wichita, Kan.,'' joined the radio team in 1963. One by one, we learn all the moonlighting jobs that players held in the 1978 off-season. (''Burton Lawless got into frozen seafood.'') This devotion to detail reaches its apotheosis when Patoski lists the regular seating arrangement for team flights in 1975: ''On the right side, Clint Murchison and wife were in 3C and D,'' and so on.
His appendix of sources includes a 62-page list of magazine and newspaper articles. That's a lot to synthesize, and he can be too dutiful in giving equal time. He spends just a little more than three pages (about 0.4 percent of the book) on the Ice Bowl, the legendary playoff game between Dallas and the Green Bay Packers in temperatures well below zero. A bit later, we learn that Billy Graham christened Texas Stadium with a 10-day spiritual crusade in 1971, which is interesting enough. But we're also treated to an extended excerpt from Graham's remarks on one of those nights: ''To you who are watching by television, it's been raining here in Texas for the last two days. And tonight, in spite of the weather, there are 43,000 people here. I don't know what kind of crowd this would have been, had we had good weather.''
Patoski's previous books include biographies of the musicians Willie Nelson, Stevie Ray Vaughan and Selena, Texan legends all but not of the gridiron variety, and he airs some opinions about football that seem squarely those of a music fan. He offers, for instance, that by 2011 the former Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson ''had become almost as legendary a broadcaster as former Oakland Raiders coach John Madden.'' He also fumbles some facts along the way. For instance, he has the 1960 United States men's hockey team (the book is wide-ranging) beating the Soviet Union, 9-4, for the gold medal in the ''miracle on ice.'' But America beat Czechoslovakia for the gold that year -- the ''miracle on ice'' over the Soviets came in 1980, and not in the gold-medal game.
But the book's shortcomings are balanced by its surplus of entertaining characters and by Patoski's broader interest in Texas history. The Cowboys' birth and ensuing decades of success also corresponded with the Sun Belt's ascent to a central role in the politics and economics of the country. Always in the foreground of the book is the larger story of Dallas, from its founding in 1841 through its lingering codified racism in the mid-20th century to its various periods of population boom and increased clout. Those looking for just the football facts have to wash them down with a lot of civic history along the way, and the book is better for it. Patoski must be fascinated by the Cowboys to have devoted himself to this herculean task. Luckily for those fans whose curiosity extends beyond the sidelines, he's also taken with the complicated region that the team calls home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Big D: from left, Harvey Martin, Randy White, Bob Breunig, John Dutton and Ed Jones. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM THE COLLECTION OF JOE NICK PATOSKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%)

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (84%); HOUSTON TEXANS (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



43 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2317 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: How We Punish Crime

 BODY:
Readers offer ideas for prison reform and alternatives.
To the Editor:
Re ''How to Cut Prison Costs'' (editorial, Nov. 10):
I was taught in law school that prison sentences have two purposes: to ensure public safety and to punish the offender. For the past few decades, meeting those goals has meant long prison terms even for nonviolent offenders, leading to soaring incarceration rates.
A few states are now realizing that they can cut prison sentences (and thus, costs) without sacrificing public safety. Reforms include expanding re-entry programs to curb recidivism and developing alternatives to incarceration.
Although state budget crises spurred these changes, more than money is at stake. With continued reform, an American prison system that shocked Dickens in 1842 for its cruelty could finally begin to meet international standards, helping to restore America as a country of just authority and moral leadership. 
But first, we need to stop using punishment as a principal justification for lengthy prison terms and, instead, reserve prison for those who pose a grave risk to public safety.
Punishment, where productive, could still be employed through sanctions and local supervision of graduated intensity. But instead of going to prison, low-risk offenders should stay in the community.
This emphasis on results over retribution would bring many benefits. Not only would it help redeem America's image abroad, but it would also help restore many communities that have come to regard prison as a rite of passage. Also, offenders not in prison are better able to pay restitution to victims. And, finally, reform could frustrate the private prison industry's unconscionable efforts to profit off mass incarceration.
Some think the existence of long prison terms for nonviolent offenders is a myth. That is not the case in many states. In Louisiana, writing a bad check can be worth up to 10 years. Even in Minnesota, a leader in community corrections, the time served for drug offenses has increased 99 percent since 1990. It's time to reverse these trends, and not just because it's cheaper.
CHIP CORWIN Madison, Wis., Nov. 26, 2012
The writer is a third-year student at the University of Wisconsin Law School.
Readers React
Unquestionably, the expansion of programs to better equip inmates to cope upon their return to society reduces the rate of recidivism and thus promotes public safety even as it reduces the financial burden of maintaining the prison system. That approach is now being emphasized by the current commissioner of the New York City Department of Correction.
It is equally important, as Mr. Corwin suggests, to use alternatives to incarceration. While postconviction punishment is an appropriate response to criminal misconduct, it should not take the form of long-term incarceration, which is often disproportionate to the crime and counterproductive to the rehabilitation of the offender. As a judge in Criminal Court, I found that psychiatric intervention, drug treatment and other behavior modification programs and use of mandated community service were often more effective in rehabilitating an offender while conferring a public benefit.
Mr. Corwin does not mention the most serious, and least justified, form of punishment: the senseless deprivation of a convicted felon's civil rights. The impediment to pursuing certain licensed occupations, to gaining public housing and driving privileges, and to the exercise of fundamental rights, such as voting and jury service, relegates many former inmates to second-class citizenship and handicaps their ability to establish productive and lawful lives.
The restoration of these rights, after an appropriate interval, would significantly improve the lives of former prisoners, make more fair the imposition of punitive sanctions and relieve, to some extent, the economic cost of the prison system.
GERALD HARRIS ChairmanNew York City Board of Correction New York, Nov. 28, 2012
Perhaps the most harmful result of needlessly incarcerating low-risk, nonviolent offenders is what it does to families, especially children. More than one-third of children with a parent in prison drop out of school. Youth whose parents go to prison are seven times more likely to be convicted of a crime as adults. But data can't measure the pain of families torn apart by harsh sentences that are ineffective, unhealthy and unfair.
As the now-grown daughter of a former prisoner said in a focus group on funding for prison alternatives in Wisconsin: ''When my mother was sentenced to prison, I was sentenced to be without my mother.''
Offenses linked to drug and alcohol abuse account for 80 percent of the growth in Wisconsin's prison population since 1996. Most of these people need treatment, not punishment. Prison doesn't treat their problems, doesn't make communities safer and rips apart innocent families whose wounds may not heal for generations.
KIM GILHULY Project DirectorHuman Impact Partners Oakland, Calif., Nov. 28, 2012
As one who has long advocated for the expansion of alternatives to incarceration, I could not agree more with Mr. Corwin that we need to divert low-risk offenders to community-based supervision and services. But if we really hope to reverse America's world-record prison growth, and its exorbitant costs, we need to examine the extreme sentencing policies that apply to serious offenders as well.
Currently, an estimated 140,000 people in prison -- 1 of every 11 behind bars -- are serving life sentences. In addition, substantial numbers are serving ''life equivalent'' sentences of 30, 40 and 50 years, with little possibility of parole.
Most of these people have been convicted of serious crimes, but excessively lengthy prison terms preclude the possibility of individual change. The 18-year-old who is the getaway driver for a friend's armed robbery of a drugstore will not necessarily be a threat to public safety 10 years later, yet will often be turned down by a parole board owing to the nature of the crime.
Aside from arguments of justice and compassion, the implications of such sentences for public safety and fiscal policy are significant. There is little evidence that lengthy prison sentences have a substantial impact on crime, but they place enormous strains on federal and state budgets.
With finite resources, we can either keep thousands of individuals in prison long after their prospects of recidivism decline or use those funds to address the needs of young people in disadvantaged communities who are at risk of becoming involved in crime. The wise choice should be obvious.
MARC MAUER Executive Director The Sentencing Project Washington, Nov. 28, 2012
There is a great deal to be said for sentences that include lengthy periods of probation following reasonable terms of incarceration. The cost of running a probation department is far less than that of running a prison system. Long probation also provides an environment where more professionals can get involved with a person in need of rehabilitative services.
Moreover, society need not feel as if the proper amount of punishment has not been inflicted by such a sentence. Just ask any probationer whether he would like to trade in his five years of probation for a year in jail. Most, I believe, would choose jail because it requires less effort and less self-examination.
M. K. NOBLE New York, Nov. 28, 2012
As Mr. Corwin points out, we should reserve prison for those who pose a genuine threat. Yet, most people currently behind bars are there for minor offenses. Regardless of the nature of the crime -- whether turnstile jumping or rape -- both are branded ''criminal.'' They are then unable to get a job, find housing or get a loan. Their chance to contribute to the economy and society is effectively deleted.
Many responses -- from addiction treatment to finding housing -- are necessary to reduce recidivism. But these remedies are just chipping away at the problem. What is needed instead is a re-examination of what constitutes a crime and the appropriate punishment. Then, low-level offenders would not even enter the criminal justice system in the first place.
One solution is changing the incentives for all criminal justice funding. For example, many federal dollars go to local police based on the number of arrests. Instead, if police departments were financed based on reducing dangerous crime, we would have a more rational, efficient system.
The cumulative economic and societal toll of mass incarceration far exceeds the billions that government spends on prisons annually. This huge opportunity cost is hidden. It drags down those caught in the system, and the harm reverberates throughout the economy and affects the rest of us.
INIMAI M. CHETTIAR Director, Justice Program Brennan Center for Justice New York University School of Law New York, Nov. 30, 2012
Not only do we need to rethink our entire prison system, which is characterized by excessive, biased and disproportionate sentences, but we also need to re-examine the way in which prisoners are granted clemency.
In Missouri, and probably in most other states, only the governor has the authority to grant clemency. But after the Willie Horton debacle in 1986 (in which a furloughed prisoner raped a woman), which helped derail the presidential hopes of Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts two years later, few governors seem to find the courage, conviction, compassion or common sense to let prisoners who have served decades behind bars return to their families, even when they pose no threat to society.
Perhaps the decision to grant clemency should be removed from the governor and given to the board of probation and parole, or to a panel composed of criminal justice experts, attorneys and psychologists. This would remove the responsibility from those governors who are reluctant to act because they have further political aspirations.
BARBARA L. FINCH University City, Mo., Nov. 28, 2012
The writer is a co-founder of Women's Voices Raised for Social Justice.
Mr. Corwin is on to something. But there is more to the picture and to the problem.
We are criminalizing more acts and omissions that we once disregarded or treated as a civil matter. Prosecutors' offices become collection agencies for bad debts. Jails become dumping grounds for spouses in domestic disputes. Prisons, not hospitals, house our mentally ill.
Punishment inflation increases under the persistent threat of being labeled soft on crime. In the mid-1990s, Montana, for example, drank the ''truth in sentencing'' Kool-Aid and abolished time off for good behavior, doubling prison sentences overnight.
Punishment inflation is fueled by deterrence theory. If 5 years in prison can deter crime, won't 10 years in prison deter more crime?
We have a criminal justice system that is archaic, racist and focused on the ''others.'' The rest of us don't identify with and therefore do not change policies that affect the ''others.'' But as Attorney General (and later Supreme Court associate justice) Robert Jackson pointed out in 1940, the laws have become so complex that all of us have become lawbreakers, subject only to the discretion of the police and the prosecutor. We are the ''others.''
JEFFREY RENZ Missoula, Mont., Nov. 28, 2012
The writer is a professor at the University of Montana School of Law.
Prisons are for people we are afraid of. But we are filling them with people we're just mad at.
Prisons aren't the only way to hold offenders accountable. In fact, there are better ways. Victims of nonviolent crimes, such as passing bad checks or shoplifting, are better off with enforced restitution. Sending the lawbreakers to prison does nothing to make the victims whole and probably will turn a low-level criminal into a much more sophisticated one. The skills offenders learn to survive inside prison make them more dangerous when they are released.
Holding low-level offenders accountable under mandatory supervision in the community, and making sure that they are paying their victims and staying off drugs, is much better for the community -- and saves a lot of money for the taxpayers.
PAT NOLAN President, Justice Fellowship Leesburg, Va., Nov. 28, 2012
The Writer Responds
Mr. Harris addresses an important omission from my letter, and his insights into the oft-unseen effects of mass incarceration bolster the argument for reform. Even beyond that, however, his letter reminds us that our national ambition should not be to stigmatize former inmates -- a growing problem as criminal histories become more accessible online -- but rather to make our country more inclusive and democratic.
I agree with Mr. Mauer that it is often too easy to simply put ''low-risk'' offenders into one camp and ''serious'' offenders into another. His point deserves emphasis because, as other writers suggest, in many cases prison time is not merely ineffective, but counterproductive.
Although I share Mr. Mauer's concerns, recent events give me hope that the enthusiasm for extreme sentences is fading. For example, earlier this month, California voters tempered their state's notorious ''three strikes'' law, a draconian provision that routinely produced life sentences grossly disproportionate to the underlying crime.
Each step forward is meaningful because, ultimately, as Ms. Gilhuly makes clear, prison is destructive. The image she gives us, of a child being torn from her mother, provokes a visceral response. Some might say that emotions shouldn't guide our policy decisions, and I would concede that point, but neither should we let cynicism and apathy rot out our collective conscience.
Finally, several writers note that alternatives to prison provide substantial cost savings. I agree this is a happy fact that we should appreciate, if not celebrate. But I still worry: If state budget conditions improve, will the urgency for reform dissipate? We must not let it.
CHIP CORWIN Madison, Wis., Nov. 30, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA DEZSÖ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); JAIL SENTENCING (92%); SENTENCING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); JUDGES (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



44 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: So Sue Me

BYLINE: By CHUCK KLOSTERMAN

 BODY:
I'm applying to law school. I'm sure there are many schools that could provide me with a decent education; I'm less confident that a degree from some institutions will get me a job. In fact, some schools, while charging outrageously high tuition, place fewer than half of their recent graduates in long-term, full-time legal positions. Is it moral for schools like these to keep enrolling students and collecting tuition dollars knowing that their product is a risky (or outright bad) investment? MATTHEW DREILING, NEW YORK 
You're looking at this problem through a peculiar lens. You're philosophically positioning law schools as extensions of the service economy: you believe they are promising a symbiotic exchange for both parties, where your investment of time and tuition will be mechanically rewarded with a job you desire (and if that doesn't happen, the school is acting in bad faith). Your argument also infers a somewhat sinister self-awareness from the schools themselves -- it suggests that they know their graduates will be uncompetitive but pretend otherwise to coerce new students into overpayment.
If your query were simply ''Is all college tuition in America unreasonably expensive?'' my answer might be different. But your particular question is performance-based; you want to know if it's unethical for colleges whose students are less successful in the job market to demand the same unreasonable tuition as the ones whose graduates perform well. And it's not unethical -- it's just fiscally unfortunate. Obviously, the best thing any law school could do for its reputation is graduate people who become successful. These schools are motivated to do so; if they continually fail at that goal, they will not attract the best applicants, and the failure will perpetuate itself. But their principal ethical responsibility is to educate law students to the best of that institution's ability, which isn't inherently tied to how easily those graduates become gainfully employed. That responsibility is mostly yours.POLYGLOT, NOT
I moved to the Netherlands two years ago. I don't plan to stay more than five years and have been wavering about whether I should commit to learning the language. The problem is that Dutch is a difficult language that's useless outside the country, and virtually everyone here speaks great English. On the other hand, I feel there's some obligation to assimilate when living in a foreign country. What is my obligation as a foreigner? NAME WITHHELD, THE NETHERLANDS
Assimilation is not an ethical responsibility. You retain the right to what language you speak and what culture you identify with. That said, any problem you encounter with the language barrier is totally on your shoulders; certainly, no Dutch-speaking resident of the Netherlands has to assimilate to your unwillingness to understand the nuances of a country to which you willingly relocated.
E-mail queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (87%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); BAD FAITH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



45 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4377 words

HEADLINE: Who Do They Think You Are?

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN

 BODY:
Not long ago, I decided to test how much privacy I have online. I cleared the cookies, the bits of code that Web sites leave on my computer to track what I browse and buy, from my two Internet browsers, Safari and Firefox. Then, with my digital past superficially erased, I set out to create two new identities: Democratic Jeff and Republican Jeff.
Safari became the home of Democratic Jeff. I started by spending time on Barack Obama's re-election Web site and then visited some travel, car and shopping sites to search for flights to Los Angeles, Volvos and Birkenstocks. On Firefox, as Republican Jeff, I went to Mitt Romney's site and then searched for Cadillacs, flights to Hawaii and diamond rings.
Having created my new digital identities as heavy-handedly as possible, I returned to my usual Web sites. At first, the ads on my favorite Washington neighborhood blog, the Prince of Petworth, were the same on both browsers. But less than two days later, an ad for Mitt Romney suddenly appeared next to a story I was reading on Firefox about Gore Vidal's burial. When I opened that page on Safari, the ad in the exact same spot was for Catholic University's master's program in human resources management. 
How did Republican Jeff and Democratic Jeff end up seeing entirely different ads? The answer is real-time bidding, a technology that's transforming advertising, politics, news and the way we live online. Advertisers compete in an auction for the opportunity to send ads to individual consumers. Each time a company buys access to me, it can bombard me with an ad that will follow me no matter where I show up on the Web.
To dig deeper into my new identities, I visited the Web site of BlueKai, one of the leading online data aggregators. The company's software enables its customers to sort consumers into 30,000 market segments like ''light spenders'' and ''safety-net seniors,'' and this fine-grained categorization helps make real-time bidding possible. According to BlueKai, Republican Jeff is someone who makes between $60,000 and $74,999 a year, lives in Portland, Me., is interested in luxury cars, celebrities and TV, may have bought a cruise ticket, is an ideal candidate to take out a mortgage and a ''midscale thrift spender.'' Democratic Jeff is someone who lives in Los Angeles, Long Beach or Santa Ana, runs a large company with more than 5,001 employees and cares about advertising and marketing. Neither of these profiles is accurate. Nevertheless, the pigeonholing of Republican Jeff and Democratic Jeff represents our digital future.
Google and Facebook have each been expanding their use of real-time bidding. In June, Facebook announced that it would introduce a new service called Facebook Exchange, which will enable advertisers to send promotions for Spanish hotels, say, to Facebook users who have searched for trips to Spain.
Should we worry about ads aimed specifically at us everywhere we go on the Web and, increasingly, on our mobile devices too? Yes, and not just because the ads can be invasive and annoying. Real-time bidding also makes the online marketplace less of an even playing field, allowing companies to send loyalty points or discounts -- or price increases -- to individuals based on their perceived spending power. The travel site Orbitz, after learning that Mac users spend 30 percent more on hotel rooms than P.C. users, has started to send Mac users ads for hotels that are 11 percent more expensive than the ones that P.C. users are seeing, according to a recent Wall Street Journal article.
Of course, many consumer breaks are unfair, and we readily accept that the cost of airline tickets, for example, varies from one passenger to another on the same flight. But our consumer profiles are beginning to define us in all of our online interactions, and a result may be that we get different prices at the mall -- or different news articles and campaign ads on our mobile devices -- based on a hidden auction system that we're unable to alter or control.
This is the darker side of the online personalization that otherwise delights us on our iPhones and tablets. At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in 2011, Eric Schmidt, now the executive chairman of Google, said that mobile devices would soon ''do things we haven't begun to think of,'' like storing details of our preferences and tastes and offering location-based suggestions that anticipate our desires and our questions before we've even asked them. Of course, a world where Google tells us what we should be doing next is, for each of us, a world of one inhabitant -- a place that we never consciously chose to enter and from which there's no exit. From the perspective of companies like Google and BlueKai, I am not the consumer -- I am the product, waiting to be sold to advertisers. Inevitably, some people will be considered more valuable products than others, and they will live in different virtual worlds as a result.
Beginning in the ''Mad Men'' era and continuing into the early Internet age, TV networks and magazine publishers sold ad space by persuading advertisers that their audiences included demographic groups likely to buy particular products. In the 1950s, it has been said, 95 percent of the success of advertising agencies came from the creative department, which designed the ads, and only 5 percent from the media department, which paid to place the ads. But the rise of independent media-buying firms has made it possible to identify the individuals most likely to be receptive to ads. This is bad news for magazines and newspapers: once advertisers were able to track and reach specific consumers, they became less interested in where their ads appeared and more interested in who, specifically, was seeing them.
This shift is transforming the economy of online advertising. Google still depends largely on ads tied to search. These are based merely on whatever terms you enter at a particular moment: search for ''Hawaiian vacations,'' and ads for Hawaiian hotels are likely to pop up on the results page. Such ads, which resemble old-fashioned classifieds, produced a vast majority of Google's nearly $38 billion in revenue in 2011. On the other hand, only 0.1 percent of all display ads, which are more like magazine ads, with text and images that can appear anywhere, are clicked, according to one estimate.
But as consumers flock to devices like smartphones and tablets, the potential of personalized display ads is making them increasingly popular with advertisers. Since 1994, when Lou Montulli, an employee at Netscape, created the cookie as a way of distinguishing online shoppers, it has been possible to track the activities of individual users on particular Web pages. It wasn't until the following decade, however, that real-time bidding first used cookies to tag individual Web browsers so that their users could be sent display ads at various Web sites. This makes it possible to build comprehensive profiles of users and then conduct an auction among advertisers to show a display ad to targeted users across tens of thousands of Web sites. Google hopes its revenue from ads that are not tied to search queries will grow significantly. In 2010, the worldwide business in display ads was about $25 billion, Neal Mohan, Google's vice president of display advertising, told me. But, he added, ''there's no reason that $25 billion couldn't be $100 billion in a few short years'' -- as the industry delivers more and more ads to mobile phones, tablets, smartphones and even interactive televisions.
When I visited the offices of BlueKai last year, I met Omar Tawakol, who helped found the company in 2008. After studying mechanical engineering at M.I.T., Tawakol went to grad school for computer science at Stanford, where he became obsessed with the idea that data about individual Internet users could be valuable in itself, regardless of where it was collected. ''Right now, data looks like black, gooey material,'' Tawakol told me at his office in Cupertino, Calif. ''Oil was to the industrial revolution as data is to our information economy.'' His sense of the potential scope of the marketplace he would help create is reflected in the name he chose for his company: ''kai'' means ''ocean'' in Hawaiian.
BlueKai's customers -- which have included travel sites, like Kayak and Expedia, that want to advertise to individual consumers -- now track more than 80 percent of the U.S. online population and have created more than 200 million individual profiles based on what we browse and buy online. (By some estimates, there are more than two profiles for every person in the United States.) At the time of my visit, Tawakol told me that over the previous 30 days, BlueKai's cookies indicated that 38 million people had been to travel sites, and 635,000 of them had plugged in ''Hawaii'' as a destination. Next, he explained how the BlueKai data exchange then worked. Let's say you're planning a trip to Hawaii. You visit a travel site that works with a data intermediary like BlueKai. With the travel site's cooperation, BlueKai puts a cookie on your computer that records the fact that you have looked up flights from San Francisco to Maui with a seven-day advance purchase. BlueKai's extensive partnership network enables it to follow more than 160 million people every month who are looking to buy things like cars, financial services, retail and consumer goods or travel accommodations. By sorting users into categories based on our interests and purchasing power -- ''midscale thrift spenders,'' for example, or ''safety-net seniors'' -- BlueKai's software helps advertisers determine how much each of us is worth following, and at what price. Advertisers for Hawaiian hotels, restaurants, car-rental companies, souvenir shops and so on then place bids starting at one or two cents for each anonymous consumer.
The winning bidder -- the Maui Hyatt Regency, for instance -- next goes to an advertising exchange, like Google's DoubleClick Ad Exchange, which conducts a separate auction to determine what the Hyatt has to pay to send you an ad whenever you show up on a Web page that has a relationship with DoubleClick. The Hyatt bids against the entire pool of other would-be advertisers who may not know that you want to vacation in Hawaii and therefore bid less to send you an ad. The automated auction is conducted in real time, which means that as soon as the Maui Hyatt wins the auction, its ad shows up within milliseconds of your loading a given Web page. ''What real-time bidding did is to open up a world where the advertising buyer can come in and very specifically, person per person, decide who they want at what price,'' Tawakol said. On one occasion after I searched for flights to Maui on Orbitz, the display ad that suddenly showed up at the top of The New Republic home page was for package deals to Kahakuloa Bay.
Two years ago, Tawakol concluded that businesses would rather create their own user profiles and restructured his data exchange accordingly. BlueKai no longer collects and sorts data about consumers; it provides the software that enables Web sites to track their users and put them into market segments. A travel site where you look into flights to Honolulu, for example, will take your profile to a real-time bidding exchange and bid on the right to flood you with ads about Hawaiian hotels, no matter where you show up on the Web. ''This is shockingly big, now that people are using their own data,'' Tawakol told me. ''We're talking about 80 billion times a day'' that ad transactions are taking place. In addition to changing the structure of the data exchange, Tawakol also expanded a separate BlueKai service -- its ''data management platform'' -- that allows advertisers to send customers ads or discounts across a range of digital platforms -- from the Web to mobile devices and eventually to Web TV.
As Tawakol contemplates the future, he imagines a personalized world that extends beyond users' Web experiences. ''There will be a concept of a unique and anonymous consumer across platforms -- online, offline, mobile and digital TV,'' he said. ''If you're looking for a trip to Hawaii online, you will see an offer on your mobile phone and your home TV.'' Tawakol added that ''once we figure out the privacy rules'' the tracking will all be connected: ''Ads you see on TV will be informed by where you logged in, what you saw online and what products you're using.''
Joseph Turow calls this ubiquitous tracking and personalization ''the long click.'' A professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, Turow characterizes the process in his book ''The Daily You: How the New Advertising Industry Is Defining Your Identity and Your Worth.'' A consumer gets a particular reputation and is then inundated with offers online and off, and the results are tracked as he passes through an advertising gantlet -- from customized articles (whose writers' pay is based on how many products their stories sell) to discount offers transmitted to TVs and mobile phones. Some marketers are even looking forward to digital billboards that will flash personalized discounts or pricing the moment you enter a store, after reading your customer profile from your mobile device.
The long click raises obvious privacy concerns. But the privacy threats go beyond troublesome ads. BlueKai's business model stands or falls on the idea that our digital profiles are anonymous at the time they're auctioned off. In fact, computers can link our digital profiles with our real identities so precisely that it will soon be hard to claim that the profiles are anonymous in any meaningful sense.
Paul Ohm, a law professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder, argues that this goes far beyond creepiness. Companies can combine hundreds or thousands of facts about us into what Ohm calls ''a database of ruin.'' For example, by knowing discrete and apparently unconnected facts about you -- your shirt color, gait, driving habits and the e-mail font you use -- companies could, using algorithms that sort the profiles of hundreds of thousands of people like you, accurately predict what kind of porn you surf. For each of us, Ohm argues, there's at least one closely guarded secret that could lead to devastating harm if revealed -- ''a medical condition, family history or personal preference,'' he says -- and the database of ruin will make that secret increasingly hard to conceal.
Tawakol stresses that the BlueKai profiles contain only generic information. When we were in his office last year, he pulled up his own consumer profile. ''It shows I have Comcast, says something about me being in this area geographically and thinks I'm interested in certain books and magazines,'' he said.
When I checked the broad outlines of my profile -- anyone can do this from home -- I found that a single search for a flight to Hawaii on Kayak.com had landed me in the following BlueKai categories: ''Economic Spectrum > Midscale: Light Spenders,'' ''50K-100K Income'' and ''Age: Retired (65+).'' I was also put in the ''Safety-Net Seniors'' and ''Small-Town Retired Couples'' segments. As in the case of Republican Jeff and Democratic Jeff, none of these classifications was accurate, although Tawakol noted that they would become more precise the more I browsed the Web while allowing BlueKai cookies on my computer.
BlueKai has emphasized its commitment to privacy by allowing users to block its cookies and to see their profiles at BlueKai's Web site. Tawakol has also developed a way of guarding mobile privacy by hiding the unique identification numbers on our smartphones. And BlueKai says that its advertising partners can't identify by name the consumers they're tracking, and they generally don't want to. ''We stop allowing any trackability after 90 days for privacy reasons because we don't want someone's profile to get so full of stuff that it feels bad,'' or creepy, Tawakol said. ''And not only is the profile anonymous, it can't have anything sensitive -- sensitive financial data, nothing to do with health care, sex, adult material or religious preference.'' The Obama administration has not been satisfied with self-regulation, however. Earlier this year, the Federal Trade Commission issued a privacy report that renewed its call on the advertising industry to develop a ''Do Not Track'' system that would let individuals opt out of Internet tracking more easily than they can now.
The industry initially resisted these proposals, insisting that any restrictions on tracking technology would cripple the economic viability of the Internet. In February, however, a coalition of Internet giants, including Google, agreed to support the idea of embedding a Do Not Track button in Web browsers that will allow users to ask Web sites not to track them. Microsoft has gone even further, angering its competitors and the advertising industry by making Do Not Track the default setting in Internet Explorer 10.
Given the possibility of turning cookies off, should we really be concerned about what some call ''follow-me advertising''? In practice, fewer than 15 percent of Internet users turn off or limit their cookies, according to surveys, indicating that most people don't know they're being tracked this way or don't care. But the greater concern is that cookie technology will soon be obsolete as follow-me advertising moves from the Web to mobile devices. Already, companies like Belly offer customer-loyalty programs that link discounts to your smartphone. Using G.P.S. tracking, an app with a ''near me'' button alerts users to businesses in their vicinity that accept the Belly card. After customers scan the card in a store, Belly sends loyalty points to their smartphones.
Advertising has always been an arms race, with ads chasing people and people finding ways -- TiVo, for example -- to avoid ads. But once ads move onto our smartphones and, possibly, onto wearable devices like Google Glasses that aspire to project ads directly onto our retinas, avoiding the ads that are following us everywhere will become much harder than simply deleting your cookies: smartphones have persistent identification numbers that can't easily be reset.
Last year, there was an outcry when Apple and Google admitted that they were storing geopositioning data about users' locations on their iPhones and Android smartphones. ''It's weird that the offline world is breaking the anonymity barrier at a deeper level, and somehow that seems to be O.K.,'' Tawakol said, referring to our growing comfort with mobile devices' knowing where we are. If smartphones that track location can tell when you're buying shirts at Sears -- and enable you to receive loyalty points or discount coupons for the shirts at the checkout line -- it's difficult to imagine how mobile advertising can remain truly anonymous.
Being put into BlueKai-designated market segments -- like ''safety-net seniors'' or ''midscale thrift spenders'' -- isn't troubling only from a privacy perspective; it can also lead to tangible economic harms like profiling, redlining and price discrimination. As Turow puts it in ''The Daily You'': This ''strategy of social discrimination will increasingly define how we as individuals relate to society -- not only how much we pay but what we see, when and how.''
Tawakol and other proponents of personalized advertising talk about its empowering qualities, its ability to deliver only relevant ads and offers that will surprise and delight consumers, not annoy them. But profiles that define us forever can also be technologies of classification and exclusion. As Google's 2011 report on real-time bidding emphasizes, the page views of consumers with ''the most value to the advertiser'' receive very high bids, while those with ''the least value'' get no bids at all. Unlike a marketplace where individuals haggle with sellers on equal terms, the new world of price discrimination is one where it's hard to escape your consumer profile, and you won't even know if companies are offering discounts to higher-status customers in the first place. Those who worry about privacy may struggle to establish different identities on different devices -- creating home and work tablets, iPhones and laptops -- but most people won't make the effort. ''Some individuals will be given a digital scarlet letter,'' says Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, describing an invisible marker that identifies someone as not worth dealing with.
If this kind of advertising actually works, will the spread of real-time bidding and follow-me advertising continue? Some skeptics in the advertising business argue that using real-time bidding to send ads to ever-narrower market segments isn't cost-effective because it can double advertising costs without doubling revenue. ''If you were a toothpaste brand, and you knew your ideal consumer was a woman, 25 to 49, with two kids, you might send ads only to those people and severely limit the scope and scale of the rest of your digital ad plan because you're overtargeting,'' says Tom Hespos, the founder of Underscore Marketing. Hespos, a leading skeptic of data exchanges, recommends that his clients -- including large pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer -- build their brands with a high-profile ad on Yahoo or by sponsoring a radio station on Pandora, rather than by putting all their energies into microtargeting. Similarly, in keynote addresses at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's annual meetings in 2008 and 2009, Wenda Harris Millard, then co-chief executive of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, compared the practice of selling online ads through data exchanges at the lowest available price with selling ''pork bellies'' and ''shmattes.'' Instead of focusing solely on technology, she called for an emphasis on creativity and innovative brand development. But 2009 was the beginning of the real-time bidding era. In light of changes in the marketplace, Millard told me, her views on real-time bidding have evolved. ''Over time, things got a little better,'' she says. ''The truth of the matter is that it is really working.''
Real-time bidding is not only reshaping the advertising industry -- it's also changing the way we consume culture. By 2017, it's expected to represent 34 percent of all money spent on display ads, up from 12 percent this year. And the process is beginning to change the way we receive news too: as it becomes clear that you click on certain ads when you read certain kinds of articles, some sites will give viewers different news based on the value of their predicted responses. Yahoo has beta-tested a Media Interest Manager that recommends ''news for you'' based on its predictions of the stories Yahoo thinks you'll be most interested in reading.
Already, if you're online and reading The Denver Post, which is a partner of the Daily Me, a company that personalizes news content, and if you've been identified as a basketball fan, you may receive articles about basketball as well as basketball-themed ads. In the future, we're likely to see a rise in companies like the Daily Me and Demand Media, whose stated mission is to ''fulfill the world's demand for commercially valuable content'' -- paying freelance journalists, for example, to write articles about the health benefits of tropical vacations that can be paired with ads for Hawaiian beach getaways and then sent to users interested in booking trips to Hawaii. The stories we see on the Web, on TV and on our mobile devices could be pegged to the market segments in which advertisers have placed us.
As our experiences become customized, there is more at stake than just discount coupons and deals. There's also the future of our common culture. As personalization shapes not only the ads we see and the news we read but also the potential dates we encounter and the Google search results we receive, the possibility of not only shared values but also a shared reality becomes more and more elusive. In his book ''The Filter Bubble,'' Eli Pariser describes the social consequences of a personalized culture, which is the core strategy for Google, Facebook, Yahoo and YouTube -- which hope to present us with information that's so directly relevant to our lives that they can sell more ads to which we're likely to respond.
As Pariser puts it, ''Personalization can lead you down a road to a kind of informational determinism in which what you've clicked on in the past determines what you see next -- a Web history you're doomed to repeat. You can get stuck in a static, ever-narrowing version of yourself -- an endless you-loop.''
Tawakol responds that it's possible to create ''algorithmic serendipity'' that can expose people to products they didn't yet realize they wanted, creating apparent randomness by sending them ads that their profiles wouldn't ordinarily receive.
''You might find that people who have a luxury car tend to have a high propensity to buy some kind of biking gear, so a person who expresses a high preference for luxury cars might be a good target for biking gear, even though they don't yet bike.'' But this leaves no possibility for individuality, eccentricity or the possibility of developing tastes and preferences that differ from those of people you superficially resemble.
A world of noncustomized ads -- broadcast television in the 1960s, for example -- sometimes confronted consumers with ads for products that held no appeal for them. But it was a place where people could define themselves and be surprised by experiences in the future that didn't reflect preferences they expressed in the past. By contrast, a world of customized ads, news and politics is one where advertisers, publishers and politicians rank and differentiate us. They evaluate us not as citizens but as consumers, putting us in different -- and often secret -- categories, based on the amount of money they predict that we'll spend or the votes they predict we'll cast.
As personalization becomes ubiquitous, the segmented profiles that advertisers, publishers and even presidential candidates use to define us may become more pervasive and significant than the identities we use to define ourselves.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY EDWARD DEL ROSARIO) (MM40
MM41
MM42
MM43
MM44
 MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEB SITES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POLITICS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); FINE JEWELRY (69%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); HUMAN RESOURCES (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (76%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



46 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 111

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: The Happiness Project

BYLINE: By ALIX BROWNE

 BODY:
There are people who live charmed lives, and then there are Ian Barry and Amaryllis Knight. Barry grew up in Santa Cruz, Calif., and studied architecture at junior college. He plays guitar in the experimental band Black Math Horseman, and, each year for the past four years, he has built a single motorcycle, almost entirely from scratch. Knight grew up on the edge of Hampstead Heath, in London. (Her father, Andrew Knight, ran The Economist and then the London Daily Telegraph Group; her mother, Sabiha Rumani Malik, is a former director of the architecture firm Foster and Partners.) She has worked in refugee camps in Africa, lived for four months in a Tibetan colony in the Himalayan foothills and driven in a five-week road rally from London to Mongolia. She was a producer on a forthcoming documentary about the Source Family, the obscure early- 1970s mystical cult led by Father Yod. She also designs furniture and is a trained doula and apprentice midwife. 
Together they have created a way of life and channeled it into an enviable number of businesses and projects. They are partners in Bäco Mercat, Josef Centeno's bustling downtown Los Angeles foodie outpost, resoundingly acclaimed as one of the 10 best new restaurants of 2012, and are also partners in his soon-to-open Tex-Mex restaurant and tequila joint, Bar Amá. ("Ian is a nerd when it comes to rare mescal and tequila, so he's extra-excited about this one," Knight says.) Both are exacting and enthusiastic cooks - self-described control freaks in the kitchen who do not share knives.
The couple, who have been engaged for five years, live in Laurel Canyon, in a house designed by Edward Fickett, an architectural adviser to President Dwight Eisenhower whose work includes Edwards Air Force Base, Dodger Stadium and the design of some 60,000 affordable and largely talk prefab dwellings known as Fickett Houses. Barry and Knight had little more than a mattress when they moved in early this year, but the house had great bones. They stripped out cascades of ivy and forlorn Italian Cyprus trees, built patios and raised gardens for vegetables. Knight designed a massive, architectural stairway to terrace a corner of the hillside where they planted Alphonso mango, four varieties of banana, pineapple-guava, pomegranate, lime-caviar, rose-apple, Jamaican allspice, cardamom and more. Once it all takes root, she says, "the foliage between the stairs can take a fair amount of abuse from traffic, and will release its scents with each tread: thyme, Corsican mint and chamomile." They enclosed an area of the guest bathroom, where once stood a eyesore of a shed, and put in a hummingbird garden, home, they hope, to Harold, a tiny refugee who was dislocated from his nest by the intensive landscaping. Three magnificent beasts, Taaka, Shiso and Arrow, all rescues and all varying degrees of wolf, roam the grounds - and an adjacent nine-acre citrus grove - freely, not fully able to believe their good fortune.
Barry sums it up this way: "Amaryllis is the spirit of everything."
The path that brought them to this incredible place was not lined with birds of paradise and fragrant herbs. The two met over the Internet, over a motorcycle. Barry had recently quit a lucrative job as a network engineer for Veritas Software Corporation, and was living in a tent in a friend's yard in Los Angeles while pursuing his lifelong passion of building bikes. Knight, who had wanted a motorcycle since she had ridden behind her father on the back of one in Greece at the age of 5, was also chasing a childhood dream.
"I fell in love with a black and oxblood custom pre-unit he had built for his friend Josh," Knight says, "so I wrote him and asked if he needed an assistant." Her offer was not as random as it may sound. Knight had once rebuilt a 1967 Mustang Fastback. Barry declined, but the two struck up a correspondence. One month and one day after they met face to face, he asked her to marry him, offering up half of everything he had, including Taaka.
The immediate result of that union was Falcon, a company founded on the premise that Barry would build 10 bikes in 10 years, each based on a different engine type. And by build they did not mean assemble, but create, from scratch, every part with the exception of, say, the tires and the carburetor. They set up shop - and house - first in Echo Park, where their studio had no natural light and Knight was diagnosed with a vitamin D deficiency (her doctor asked her if she lived in a cave), and then in a 5,000-square-foot former factory in a gritty part of downtown Los Angeles next to Skid Row. Within the confines of a 14-foot corrugated metal fence, they created an oasis, but their front door was strewn with human feces and used needles almost daily.
It was around that time that they met Centeno, then the chef at the Lazy Ox Canteen in nearby Little Tokyo. "We ate there all the time," says Knight, who was also thrilled whenever she happened to run into Centeno at the bank. "I was like, 'Yay, he can walk me to my car and I won't get mugged.' " The first official Falcon, designed around the engine of a 1950 Triumph Thunderbird and known as the Bullet, had already rolled into existence - and won the Custom Culture Award at the 2008 Legend of the Motorcycle International Concours d'Elegance in Pebble Beach. For Barry it was not so much a validation as a revelation: there were people out there who valued his work as much as he did. A photo on the couple's refrigerator shows Colin Powell dropping by the studio for a visit.
TODAY, FALCON IS LOCATED ON a block of West Third Street, near La Brea, that will likely never be trendy but is not unreasonably far from parts of Hollywood that already are. Barry's studio is in the back of the building. And once he gets his collection of motorcycles out of there, the front will become Altai, a design consultancy and store scheduled to open early next year. Knight will spearhead an interiors and landscaping program and curate a selection of furniture and objects. She hired Teena Sahebi, a veteran of Opening Ceremony, to be the fashion director for men's clothing and run the style side of the business. "In the motorcycle world are the most badly dressed men you will ever meet," Knight says. (Altai has already secured exclusives from the likes of Raf Simons, Casely-Hayford and Christophe LeMaire for Hermès.) But you also get the sense that being around Barry has spurred her own urge not just to nurture the creative impulse in everyone around her, but to get down to actually making things herself. "Ian has amassed an arsenal of tools - a five-axis CNC machine, metal benders, grinders, leveling tables and jigs," she says. "It offers us opportunities to experiment and build Altai furniture prototypes." So far these include a handsome polished aluminum and marble coffee table and a dog bed (both of which Knight designed for the Laurel Canyon house but that can be customized to fit someone else's) and a bronze fireplace screen that was a commission for a friend. She plans to "hire" Barry, who just completed Falcon No. 4, the White Falcon, last month; the two are also competing with one another on the design for a chair. "Ian challenged me to make a chair that looks like poured liquid metal," she says, pointing to the creative quid pro quo that fuels their romance. "The things I want to make, like the table, are so simple. Unlike Ian, I'm not trying to reinvent the wheel."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In step Amaryllis Knight, Ian Barry and their dogs (from top), Shiso, Arrow and Taaka, in the newly planted garden of their house in Laurel Canyon, Calif.
Growth industry Clockwise from top left: the house in Laurel Canyon by the architect Edward Fickett
a coffee table in the living area designed by Knight
Barry in the adjacent citrus grove
a vanity table in the bedroom
the first Falcon bike, built for the actor Jason Lee (Barry bought it back and it's now his daily ride)
bounty from the couple's gardens
their dog Shiso on the lookout.
 Made from scratch Left: Barry and Knight are partners in Bäco Mercat. Below and far left: the Falcon workshop with bike No. 4 in progress. Over the transom is the future home of Altai, a design consultancy and store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIAN GAUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); REFUGEES (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: FOSTER + PARTNERS LTD (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); HIMALAYAS (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%); MONGOLIA (79%); CHINA (58%); AFRICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



47 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Holiday Magazine; T MAGAZINE; Pg. 161

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: A Little Give and Take

BYLINE: By ANN PATCHETT

 BODY:
Is there anything more satisfying than complaining about the commercialization of Christmas? Could there be a better use of righteous indignation? Let us raise a chorus of voices against the traffic, which is like crawling into a pot of failed fudge, or the misguided dream of finding a parking place, which spawns a vigilant circling of the sixth floor of the garage. It felt so pushy all those years the store decorations went up the day after Thanksgiving, except that now they go up two weeks before Halloween. The carols jingle, flaying our last nerve, while we spend money we don't have to buy gifts they won't enjoy. In the process, we shave off just a little more of whatever sense of holiday wonder we ever possessed in the first place.
Bah. 
Then last year I experienced a Christmas conversion. I didn't find the true meaning of the season, not even close, but I did, for the first time in my life including childhood, tap into some real holiday joy. And I did it in the most unexpected place imaginable - a retail establishment. On Nov. 16, 2011, I opened a small, independent bookstore in Nashville called Parnassus Books with my business partner, Karen Hayes. It was the week before Thanksgiving. If I remember this correctly, and I'm sure I don't because I was wildly distracted, we weren't really thinking so much about Christmas then. We were thinking about the light fixtures and the staff schedule and if there was cash for the cash drawer. We had just decided on our hours of operation, and had yet to have those hours painted on the front door. We were thinking about opening a business.
But the tide of holiday shoppers could have cared less whether or not we were ready for them. They knew that books make thoughtful gifts, and once our doors were open they swept in like a flood.
All I can tell you is that when you're the one selling Christmas presents, the world looks a lot different than it does when you're the one buying them. Having spent so many years as a harried and unhappy holiday shopper, I simply assumed my misery was shared by the people on the other side of the checkout counter. In fact, I assumed it was worse for them, because while I might be out in the morass for a couple of hours, they had to stay in it for the entire day. But here's the big reveal: When you're the person pushing the merchandise, Christmas is a weird sort of fun.
"I'd take the Christmas season any day," Andy told me. Andy is a crackerjack bookseller at our store, a veteran of the now defunct Borders chain. "You walk in the door, you blink, and it's time to go home." Andy and I were going over the finer points of the season last week while taking turns hauling stacks of books up a sliding ladder to fill the overstock shelves. "Come Christmas, everybody wants a recommendation. They need a book for Uncle Harry. You hand them a book, they cross Harry off the list. Everybody's happy."
Meanwhile, Karen, who orders the books that fill the shelves, rarely made it out of her office that first season. She was pinned to her desk by the centripetal force of employees running in from the front of the store to tell her we need more copies of the new Stephen King, more! and then running out again to ring someone up.
Many months later, I would enjoy a conversation with a young woman who had never read F. Scott Fitzgerald. A friend told her she should read "The Beautiful and Damned." She was holding the book in her hand. Gently, firmly, I explained that she should read "The Great Gatsby" first, and if she liked it, "Tender Is the Night." I told her no one should start with "The Beautiful and Damned." But at Christmastime, conversations regarding the finer points of the Fitzgerald oeuvre do not exist. Our conversations about books were better suited for a fast-paced game show - "I need a book for a smart 11-year-old girl," a wild-eyed mother shouted over the din of the crowd. I didn't ask her if the child had read the Harry Potter books. I didn't waste her time like that. " 'The Apothecary,' Maile Meloy," I said, pitching the pretty hardback into her hands.
Parnassus is a small store, and there were enough people crammed inside that I was glad the fire marshal wasn't shopping there. We had to get the books to the people as fast as possible so they could rush on to the Container Store and Williams-Sonoma in the mall across the street. Maybe it's inevitable, but those of us at Parnassus found ourselves recommending the same books over and over again. Your husband likes nonfiction and business? Here's the Steve Jobs biography. Your dad likes history? Robert K. Massie, "Catherine the Great." Mystery? "Death Comes to Pemberley." Literary fiction? '"The Marriage Plot."
I bought the Steve Jobs for my stepdaughter's husband, but it turned out he already had it. When I brought it back the next morning, Andy was working the register. We made eye contact the second I came through the door. He raised his eyebrows and pointed discreetly at the book in my hands. I nodded. "Sir!" he said to a gentleman who was walking dejectedly away. "I was wrong. I see we have one copy left." I went straight to the gift wrap table and wrapped it up.
Give or take a couple of percentage points, most retail establishments expect to do 25 percent of their yearly business in the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. So are they going to deck their halls a little bit early in hopes of extending the magic? You better believe it. I've never put up a Christmas tree in my life, but I was happy to clip a star to the top of the one in the bookstore. We tried to restrict the playing of carols to the Vince Guaraldi Trio, but after several days even those adorable Peanuts characters singing, "Hark! the Herald Angels Sing" began to chafe. We switched over to Elvis - "Blue Christmas."
And we had fun. Even though we kept running out of "The Hunger Games" (who didn't have "The Hunger Games" already?) and Laura Hillenbrand's "Unbroken," Andy was right: we blinked and the day was gone. I bought books for everybody I knew - gorgeous annotated copies of "Peter Pan" and coffee table books that ate up half a roll of wrapping paper. They were so beautiful that I couldn't resist them, and anyway, there was no time to shop anyplace else. I was filled with the Christmas spirit, or the spirit of holiday retail, and I started to think that they were one and the same.
As those of us at Parnassus brace for our second holiday season, we're all a little wiser. Karen has ordered extra copies of Jon Meacham's "Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power," which we're expecting is going to be big, along with the new collection of Alice Munro stories, "Dear Life," because what good is having a bookstore if you can't push Alice Munro? This year, I highly recommend the abandonment of online shopping in favor of diving into the traffic. Shop local and support your neighbors! In these trying economic times, joy to the world and good will toward all may just need a little homemade stimulus package.
Ho, ho, ho.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Presents tense: Selling gifts turns out to be more fun than buying them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN PARR/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); THANKSGIVING (78%); HALLOWEEN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



48 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Devoted to Cars That Haul A Full Load of French Charm

BYLINE: By TOM COTTER

 BODY:
TOMS RIVER, N.J.
OF all he could have fallen in love with during his trip to France in 2001 -- the food, the wine, the architecture, the women -- Ed Perzel became smitten with a tin snail.
Much to the relief of his wife, Elli.
Tin snail is a nickname for the Deux Chevaux, a charismatic French car manufactured in 1948-90. Produced by Citroën, it has been called a frog, a goat, mon petit and a student Jaguar. In the United States, it is known as a 2CV.
Deux Chevaux -- or more completely, Deux Chevaux Vapeur -- indicates an official rating of two taxable horsepower, a modest number that conferred the benefit of a lower tax assessment based on the car's small size, light weight and tiny engine.
''I knew what a 2CV was, but had never actually seen one until our first trip to Paris in 2001,'' said Mr. Perzel, 74, a retired college professor and a lover of eclectic cars. ''I said to Elli, 'I've got to get one of those.' '' 
The 2CV was to France what the Volkswagen Beetle was to Germany and the Ford Model T to America -- inexpensive transportation for tough economic times. Depending on how many variations of the basic model are counted, production estimates for the 2CV can exceed seven million.
The Toute Petite Voiture, or very small car, development program was conceived in 1934 with its original design brief calling for ''four wheels under an umbrella.'' It was to be a minimalist car that could equally haul four adults wearing proper hats to church on Sunday or 50 kilos of potatoes to market on Monday.
The mission of the 2CV's lanky yet compliant suspension was to assure that it could be driven across a plowed farm field with a basket of eggs on the seat, not breaking a single one. Being easy on eggs meant it would be comfortable for humans, too.
The car was equipped with an air-cooled 2-cylinder engine that powered, more or less, the front wheels; output peaked at about 30 horsepower by the time production ended.
To Citroën enthusiasts, however, traditional measures of performance are not the point. They say a 2CV can accelerate from 0 to 60 ''in a day,'' but it produces more smiles-per-mile than any car.
On subsequent trips to France, Mr. Perzel looked into buying a 2CV that he could ship home to West Jefferson, N.C. He even considered a 2CV restoration project from a junkyard in Provence before deciding that project would be too complicated.
An Internet search eventually led Mr. Perzel to Noel Slade, owner of Eurocar Imports, a Citroën specialist in Toms River, on the Jersey Shore.
Mr. Slade, a native of Essex, England, inherited a love of 2CVs from his father, who operated a Citroën repair shop. The younger Mr. Slade brought his skills to the United States after marrying an American working in England who yearned to return to the New York area.
Mr. Slade, 38, refurbishes 2CVs, importing derelict hulks by the container load from France, Germany, Spain and Belgium. When they arrive in New Jersey, the cars are disassembled and sandblasted to remove corrosion. The rust-prone original frame is replaced with a new galvanized-steel unit.
''We're not just doing paint jobs; we're completely remanufacturing the whole car from the ground up,'' Mr. Slade said.
''It's like a giant Lego set, just parts, nuts and bolts,'' he added. ''We've shipped finished cars all over the United States, Canada, South America, across Europe and Australia. California is our most popular state.''
Typically, 2CVs that are at least 25 years old face no licensing problems with regard to emissions or safety equipment, Mr. Slade said. Cars destined for California need to be 1975 or earlier models.
Each 2CV gets new body panels and upholstery -- reproduction parts are readily available -- and the engine and suspension are rebuilt. Mr. Slade sells most of his remade cars for $20,000 to $25,000, depending on the paint configuration and optional equipment, which may include higher-grade interior trim and engine modifications.
The Perzels ordered a 1964 2CV in classic burgundy and black, a color combination with an Art Deco riff that Citroën used on the Charleston models.
''The reality is that I bought a 2CV before I ever drove one,'' Mr. Perzel said. ''I made one quick trip to Toms River to check out his operation. I ordered the car in June 2009, and it was delivered the following February.''
Mr. Perzel has been driving his 2CV around the North Carolina mountains ever since.
''It's a fun car to go out and play in,'' he said. ''Everyone who sees it does a double-take.''
Mr. Slade said he's had a customer waiting list for the cars since he opened for business in 2003. Even though it takes only about eight weeks to completely rebuild a 2CV, customers ordering a car today will wait six to eight months for delivery. He and his staff restore some 25 to 30 2CVs a year, and the shop works on the delivery truck version as well as other Citroën models.
Those waiting times may be extended as a result of recent events. The shop suffered severe damage in October from Hurricane Sandy.
''Water flooded the building,'' Mr. Slade said. ''I lost or sustained damage on 40 2CVs, and I lost most of my tools and equipment.''
The pressure to get the shop back in operation may not be as dire as it would be for conventional repair businesses because Mr. Slade's 2CVs are often bought as hobby vehicles. But customers soon discover the cars are competent as daily drivers, he said.
''A 2CV can get 45 to 48 miles per gallon and can travel at highway speeds,'' he said.
One customer, Sam Scribner, bought a yellow and black 1975 2CV from Mr. Slade last spring. Mr. Scribner, the American owner of a furniture business in Panama, decided to treat himself to a car he had admired for years after retiring to Maitland, Fla.
''I bought it to keep company for my 1970 VW Beetle convertible,'' said Mr. Scribner, 64, whose 2CV has its steering wheel on the right. ''Most people have no idea what kind of car it is. People take pictures of me at traffic lights.''
Mr. Scribner says he regularly reaches 60 miles per hour when taking his wife to work at Disney World in Orlando, 32 miles from home. ''It's designed to be driven hard,'' he said.
Mr. Slade also services 2CVs bought elsewhere. Ben Boyle, a high school English teacher from Kingston, Mich., bought his red 1986 2CV nine years ago from a private owner in Atlanta. Mr. Slade has not only replaced the car's frame, he also made a house call to rebuild its engine.
''As long as it's not snowing, I'm driving that car,'' said Mr. Boyle, 32, whose collection includes such disparate vehicles as a 1980 Chevy Chevette and a Russian S.U.V. called the Lada Niva.
''I've driven 90,000 miles in my 2CV since I bought it,'' he said. ''It's a car full of quirky features, like windows that flip up, a quirky suspension and a quirky shifter that comes out of the dashboard. It's a collection of simple parts that are put together in an unorthodox manner.
''I can understand how the new versions of the Mini Cooper and Fiat 500 drive up the value of older models, but thankfully there is nothing culturally I can identify that will drive up the prices of 2CVs,'' Mr. Boyle said.
Whatever happens with 2CV values, there are orders waiting to be filled, so for the near term, Mr. Slade said, he will rebuild the business at his current location. But he hopes to sign a lease soon for a new shop five miles farther inland, in Manchester, N.J.
''I'll be up and running 100 percent within four weeks,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRANCOPHILE: Above, Ed Perzel fell for Citroën 2CVs in Paris, but bought his '64 model from the restoration shop of Noel Slade, below left, in New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM COTTER
LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
INVENTORY: From top, Mr. Slade's Citroën 2CV stock includes a restored '74 2CV, while a '63 model and a '62 Truckette await their transformation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 STATEMENT: A 2CV nickname is noted on Mr. Perzel's license plate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM COTTER) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (86%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



49 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; LOS ANGELES AUTO SHOW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Making the Best of Awkward Timing

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
MORE than 50 vehicles made their world or North American premieres at the 2012 Los Angeles auto show, organizers proclaimed, during two days of press previews before the doors were opened to the public on Friday.
But to torture a baking analogy, by the time one separated the wheat from the chaff among the new models here, there were barely enough ingredients left to make a decent loaf of bread. This long-running but product-challenged show is about half a loaf short.
Important new models do lurk in the manufacturers' displays, including the latest Toyota RAV4, the redesigned Acura RLX, the next Subaru Forester, an expanded Hyundai Santa Fe, the latest Mazda 6 and, just 18 months after the introduction of a new generation, a refreshed Honda Civic. 
These are high-volume models, but they rank firmly in the meat-and-potatoes categories of the industry. The fantastical, futuristic concepts and design studies that populate a major auto salon were fewer and farther between than usual here.
Like many international auto shows, the Los Angeles stop on the circuit suffered mightily through the recession. But in contrast to shows in Detroit, New York, Paris and Frankfurt, the Los Angeles event has not bounced back so strongly.
A more fundamental problem is that the Southern California stop on the circuit suffered as the January show in Detroit gained prominence. This year's schedule here, coinciding with the start of the holiday shopping frenzy, stands to further depress attendance. The show runs through Dec. 9 at the Los Angeles Convention Center.
Still, the show offers a first look at the 2014 model year debutantes. Besides the mainstream sedans and utility vehicles, Los Angeles remains an appropriate and traditional event at which to introduce products evocative of the California lifestyle: convertibles, electric cars and models that showcase fuel-saving technologies.
Chevrolet introduced an E.V. version of its Spark minicar here. Fiat unveiled a 500e that promises an all-electric range comparable to that of a Nissan Leaf. BMW showed the i3 Concept Coupe, a small runabout with crossover styling that could lead the company's line of electric cars.
One of the show's more ambitious offerings was a Mercedes-Benz design study, the Ener-G-Force S.U.V., which would be propelled by electricity from a hydrogen fuel cell. But like many such design studies, if a version of this G-Class concept ever did make it into production, it would be likely to receive a conventional powertrain.
Audi demonstrated its commitment to fuel-saving technology by introducing diesel-powered versions of its A6, A7 and A8 sedans and its Q5 and Q7 S.U.V.'s. Volkswagen said its new Beetle Convertible would also have a diesel option, and Mazda announced plans to include a diesel version of its Mazda 6 sedan. Ford displayed a 1-liter, 3-cylinder turbocharged engine that is to go on sale next year in its Fiesta subcompact.
High horsepower, of course, remains an attraction for showgoers, so the Mercedes-Benz AMG performance division unveiled three new models, including a Black Series SLS coupe with 622 horsepower; Volvo's Polestar concept tweaked an S60 sedan with a 508-horsepower motor; Nissan highlighted minor enhancements to its 545-horsepower GT-R sports car for 2014; and Jaguar put a 550-horsepower V-8 in its XFR-S sedan.
Providing essential components of driving fun were, in addition to the long-awaited convertible version of the latest VW Beetle, a new generation of the Porsche Cayman and a Hyundai design study, based on the Veloster, called the C3 Roll Top Concept. The clever coupe had its hatchback reconfigured around a sliding, tarp-covered roof opening and a drop-down tailgate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUCCESSOR: Matthias Müller, Porsche's chief, introduced the 2013 Cayman in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL McCARTEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SEDANS (89%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (74%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (62%)

PERSON: MATTHIAS MULLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



50 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: A Velodrome in Brooklyn? If a Philanthropist Has His Way

 BODY:
In ''The Mysterious Mr. Rechnitz,'' on the cover of last Sunday's Metropolitan section, J. David Goodman profiled Joshua Rechnitz, who recently emerged as a major New York City philanthropist with a $40 million gift to create a cycling track in Brooklyn Bridge Park. Readers on NYTimes.com praised and questioned his generosity. Readers also commented on Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, about the New York City Housing Authority's response to Hurricane Sandy. A selection of comments is below.
Well done, Mr. Rechnitz! 
I do hope that the velodrome will connect in some direct ways with the dramatic shift N.Y.C. has made in recent years to enhance the infrastructure and thinking that will make commuting by bicycle safer and more socially acceptable.
Lending financial support to that effort to transform N.Y.C. into a greener, safer and healthier environment will affect the daily lives of thousands, if not millions, of people. I look forward to seeing how the velodrome may help in this amazing transformation.
I will also be there on opening day, ticket in hand, to see a few track races. Thanks for your generosity.
It's so refreshing to see a philanthropist who is not an outsize egotist.
George Swain,
Hudson Valley, NY
I live in the neighborhood where the velodrome is to be placed. This will do nothing to enrich the park, the area or the city. It will also do nothing to encourage the use of bicycles. If he really wanted to do something for the park, he should give it a gift with no strings attached!
JMartin,
NYC
Seems like the gentleman just wants his preferred sports amenity within easy commuting distance to his home. And who doesn't want their preferred gym closer to home?
Aren't there other uses for the space that would provide some plausible benefit to the majority of the citizenry?
It really raises the question of what rights the community has in use of space, and planning.
But the real spectacle here is watching the cast of fawning enablers contorting themselves to support and justify an obviously ludicrous project. It's like a kind of madness.
The man wants not only to indulge his obsession, but also to have others share in his reverie.
jr,
nyc, ny
The velodrome in Los Angeles, funded by Home Depot, is a fantastic example of a building that serves as a centerpiece for the healthful life of a very diverse community. I spent a day there recently. The building was packed all day. Bike races for local bike clubs, endless soccer games for a youth soccer league, birthday parties in meeting rooms that could be reserved by the general public. The building hummed with activity all day.
New Yorkers should be salivating at the prospect of such a facility being GIVEN to their city.
Neil Prince, New World,
New Jersey
Housing After the Storm
The situations you describe defy belief, except that I readily believe you. The idea that someone with advanced bone cancer -- withholding rent to force the authority to deal with mold -- is facing eviction is simply untenable.
Offering orchestra tickets to people without heat or electricity, who'd have to climb 12 flights to attend? We have a stupid system in place, and the people running it are clearly incompetent.
Siobhan,
New York
The problem is too many people, many of them completely able to take care of themselves, dependent on the government. If there were fewer, then those who were truly needy could be better cared for. I've noticed in public housing there are plenty of people with nothing to do all day, yet no one takes the initiative to help the elderly, offer child care to those who do work, clean up around the building.
Poor communities where government assistance is the norm are passive in bettering their own lives and those around them, and instead grumble about what more the government should be doing for them. This is part of the problem.
Andrew S.,
Tacoma WA
I wonder what it's like to be physically disabled, terminally ill, poor, alone in the dark, cold and without running water? Oh, and add elderly to the list, plus don't forget totally vulnerable and, most likely, extremely depressed.
Sounds like these folks are living high off the hog to me.
NYCgal,
NYC
After doing research on families who live in public housing last year, I can say there are many fallacies and stereotypes about those who live in public housing.
The first is the one that says that people in public housing don't work. What I learned is that many, many people who live in public housing work at middle- and lower-middle-income jobs.
For the person who works as a teller or help desk manager at a bank with bills to pay and a child or two, public housing is probably the only place that they can live in an apartment they can afford.
People's lives are complicated, and so are the reasons they live in public housing. I'm not making excuses, just telling the facts as I saw them. Wdj,
brooklyn
As a NYS Supreme Court judge, I generally found Nycha (and their lawyers) to be rigid, insensitive and less compassionate than any other landlords. It often seemed to me that public-housing tenants were living life on parole. Ejg,
nyc

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CYCLING (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); HURRICANE SANDY (70%); SOCCER (62%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



51 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5114 words

HEADLINE: The Empty Promise of Tax Incentives

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Lisa Schwartz and Ramsey Merritt contributed research.

 BODY:
In the end, the money that towns across America gave General Motors did not matter.
When the automaker released a list of factories it was closing during bankruptcy three years ago, communities that had considered themselves G.M.'s business partners were among the targets.
For years, mayors and governors anxious about local jobs had agreed to G.M.'s demands for cash rewards, free buildings, worker training and lucrative tax breaks. As late as 2007, the company was telling local officials that these sorts of incentives would ''further G.M.'s strong relationship'' with them and be a ''win/win situation,'' according to town council notes from one Michigan community.
Yet at least 50 properties on the 2009 liquidation list were in towns and states that had awarded incentives, adding up to billions in taxpayer dollars, according to data compiled by The New York Times.
Some officials, desperate to keep G.M., offered more. Ohio was proposing a $56 million deal to save its Moraine plant, and Wisconsin, fighting for its Janesville factory, offered $153 million. 
But their overtures were to no avail. G.M. walked away and, thanks to a federal bailout, is once again profitable. The towns have not been so fortunate, having spent scarce funds in exchange for thousands of jobs that no longer exist.
One township, Ypsilanti, Mich., is suing over the automaker's departure. ''You can't just make these promises and throw them around like they're spare change in the drawer,'' said Doug Winters, the township's attorney.
Yet across the country, companies have been doing just that. And the giveaways are adding up to a gigantic bill for taxpayers.
A Times investigation has examined and tallied thousands of local incentives granted nationwide and has found that states, counties and cities are giving up more than $80 billion each year to companies. The beneficiaries come from virtually every corner of the corporate world, encompassing oil and coal conglomerates, technology and entertainment companies, banks and big-box retail chains.
The cost of the awards is certainly far higher. A full accounting, The Times discovered, is not possible because the incentives are granted by thousands of government agencies and officials, and many do not know the value of all their awards. Nor do they know if the money was worth it because they rarely track how many jobs are created. Even where officials do track incentives, they acknowledge that it is impossible to know whether the jobs would have been created without the aid.
''How can you even talk about rationalizing what you're doing when you don't even know what you're doing?'' said Timothy J. Bartik, a senior economist at the W.E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research in Kalamazoo, Mich.
The Times analyzed more than 150,000 awards and created a searchable database of incentive spending. The survey was supplemented by interviews with more than 100 officials in government and business organizations as well as corporate executives and consultants.
A portrait arises of mayors and governors who are desperate to create jobs, outmatched by multinational corporations and short on tools to fact-check what companies tell them. Many of the officials said they feared that companies would move jobs overseas if they did not get subsidies in the United States.
Over the years, corporations have increasingly exploited that fear, creating a high-stakes bazaar where they pit local officials against one another to get the most lucrative packages. States compete with other states, cities compete with surrounding suburbs, and even small towns have entered the race with the goal of defeating their neighbors.
While some jobs have certainly migrated overseas, many companies receiving incentives were not considering leaving the country, according to interviews and incentive data.
Despite their scale, state and local incentives have barely been part of the national debate on the economic crisis. The budget negotiations under way in Washington have not addressed whether the incentives are worth the cost, even though 20 percent of state and local budgets come from federal spending. Lawmakers in Washington are battling over possible increases in personal taxes, while both parties have said that lower federal taxes on corporations are needed for the country to compete globally.
The Times analysis shows that Texas awards more incentives, over $19 billion a year, than any other state. Alaska, West Virginia and Nebraska give up the most per resident.
For many communities, the payouts add up to a substantial chunk of their overall spending, the analysis found. Oklahoma and West Virginia give up amounts equal to about one-third of their budgets, and Maine allocates nearly a fifth.
In a few states, the cost of incentives is not significant. But several of them have low business taxes -- or none at all -- which can save companies even more money than tax credits.
Far and away the most incentive money is spent on manufacturing, about $25.5 billion a year, followed by agriculture. The oil, gas and mining industries come in third, and the film business fourth. Technology is not far behind, as companies like Twitter and Facebook increasingly seek tax breaks and many localities bet on the industry's long-term viability.
Those hopes were once more focused on automakers, which for decades have pushed cities and states to set up incentive programs, blazing a trail that companies of all sorts followed. Even today, G.M. is the top beneficiary, public records indicate. It received at least $1.7 billion in local incentives in the last five years, followed closely by Ford and Chrysler.
A spokesman for General Motors said that almost every major employer applied for incentives because they help keep companies competitive and retain or create jobs.
''There are many reasons why so many Ford, Chrysler and G.M. plants closed over the last few decades,'' said the G.M. spokesman, James Cain. ''But these factors don't mean that the companies and communities didn't benefit while the plants were open, which was often for generations.''
Mr. Cain cited research showing that the company received less money per job than foreign automakers operating in the United States.
Questioned about incentives, officials at dozens of other large corporations said they owed it to shareholders to maximize profits. Many emphasized that they employ thousands of Americans who pay taxes and spend money in the local economy.
For government officials like Bobby Hitt of South Carolina, the incentives are a good investment that will raise tax revenues in the long run.
''I don't see it as giving up anything,'' said Mr. Hitt, who worked at BMW in the 1990s and helped it win $130 million from South Carolina.
Today, Mr. Hitt is the state's secretary of commerce. South Carolina recently took on a $218 million debt to assist Boeing's expansion there and offered the company tax breaks for 10 years.
Mr. Hitt, like most political officials, has a short-term mandate. It will take years to see whether the state's bet on Boeing bears fruit.
In Michigan, Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican in his first term, has been working to eliminate most business tax credits but is bound by past awards. The state gave General Motors $779 million in credits in 2009, just a month after the company received a $50 billion federal bailout and decided to close seven plants in Michigan.
G.M. can use the credits to offset its state tax bill for up to 20 years. ''You don't know who will take a credit or when,'' said Doug Smith, a senior official at the state's economic development agency. ''We may give a credit to G.M., and they might not take it for three years or 10 years or more.''
One corporate executive, Donald J. Hall Jr. of Hallmark, thinks business subsidies are hurting his hometown, Kansas City, Mo., by diverting money from public education. ''It's really not creating new jobs,'' Mr. Hall said. ''It's motivated by politicians who want to claim they have brought new jobs into their state.''
For Mr. Hall and others in Kansas City, the futility of free-flowing incentives has been underscored by a border war between Kansas and Missouri.
Soon after Kansas recruited AMC Entertainment with a $36 million award last year, the state cut its education budget by $104 million. AMC was moving only a few miles, across the border from Missouri. Workers saw little change other than in commuting times and office décor. A few months later, Missouri lured Applebee's headquarters from Kansas.
''I just shake my head every time it happens, it just gives me a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach,'' said Sean O'Byrne, the vice president of the Downtown Council of Kansas City. ''It sounds like I'm talking myself out of a job, but there ought to be a law against what I'm doing.''
Outgunned by Companies
For local governments, incentives have become the cost of doing business with almost every business. The Times found that the awards go to companies big and small, those gushing in profits and those sinking in losses, American companies and foreign companies, and every industry imaginable.
Workers are a vital ingredient in any business, yet companies and government officials increasingly view the creation of jobs as an expense that should be subsidized by taxpayers, private consultants and local officials said.
Even big retailers and hotels, whose business depends on being in specific locations, bargain for incentives as if they can move anywhere. The same can be said for many movie productions, which almost never come to town without local subsidies.
When Oliver Stone made the 2010 sequel to ''Wall Street,'' in his mind there was only one place to shoot it: New York City. Nonetheless, the film, a scathing look at bankers' greed, received $10 million in tax credits, according to 20th Century Fox.
In an interview, Mr. Stone criticized subsidies for industries like banking and agriculture but defended them for Hollywood, saying that many movies can be shot anywhere and that their actors and crew members pay state income taxes. ''It's good,'' Mr. Stone said of the film subsidies. ''Or like basically the way business is done. I don't understand what the moral qualm is.''
The practical consequences can be easily seen. The Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative group, found that the amount New York spends on film credits every year equals the cost of hiring 5,000 public-school teachers.
Nationwide, billions of dollars in incentives are being awarded as state governments face steep deficits. Last year alone, states cut public services and raised taxes by a collective $156 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning advocacy group.
Incentives come in many forms: cash grants and loans; sales tax breaks; income tax credits and exemptions; free services; and property tax abatements. The income tax breaks add up to $18 billion and sales tax relief around $52 billion of the overall $80 billion in incentives.
Collecting data on property tax abatements is the most difficult because only a handful of states track the amounts given by cities and counties. Among them is New York, where businesses save an estimated $1.1 billion a year in property taxes. The American International Group, the insurance company at the center of the 2008 financial crisis, continued to benefit from a $23.8 million abatement from New York City at the same time it was being bailed out with $180 billion in federal money.
Since 2000, The New York Times Company has received more than $24 million from the city and state.
In some places, local officials have little choice but to answer the demands of corporations.
''They dictate their terms, and we're not really in a position to question their deal terms,'' Sarah Eckhardt, a commissioner in Travis County, Tex., said of companies she has dealt with recently, including Apple and Hewlett-Packard. ''We don't have the sophistication or the resources to negotiate with a company that has the wherewithal the size of a country. We are just no match in negotiating with that.''
Local officials can find themselves across the table from conglomerates like Shell Oil and Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of construction equipment.
Shell has been offered a tax credit worth as much as $1.6 billion over 25 years from Pennsylvania, which competed with West Virginia and Ohio for an energy production facility. Royal Dutch Shell, the parent company, made $31 billion in profits in 2011 -- about $3.5 million every hour. The company's chief executive made $13.1 million last year, according to Equilar, an executive compensation firm. Pennsylvania predicts that the plant will create thousands of long-term jobs, but it did not require them in exchange for the tax credit.
Caterpillar has received more than $196 million in local aid nationwide since 2007, though it has chastised states, particularly its home base, Illinois, for not being business-friendly. This year, Caterpillar announced a new plant in Georgia, which offered $44 million in incentives. Local counties chipped in free land and other aid, including $15 million in tax breaks and $8.2 million in road, water and sewer repairs.
The company, whose profits are soaring, recently froze workers' pay for six years at several locations, arguing that it needed to remain competitive. A spokesman for the company, Jim Dugan, said it employed more than 50,000 people and invested billions of dollars nationwide.
Local officials typically have scant information about the track record of corporations, like whether they lived up to job assurances elsewhere. And some officials acknowledged that they did not know to what extent incentives were a deciding factor for companies.
''I don't know that there's a way to know other than talking to the businesses, and the businesses telling us that that was a factor in creating jobs,'' said Ken Striplin, the city manager of Santa Clarita, Calif., which gives tax breaks in a designated enterprise zone. ''There's no box that says 'I would have created this job without the enterprise zone.' ''
California is one of the few states that have been cutting back on incentives. But that does not mean its cities are following suit. When Twitter threatened to leave San Francisco last year, officials scrambled to assuage the company.
Twitter was not short on money -- it soon received a $300 million investment from a Saudi prince and $800 million from a private consortium. The two received Twitter equity, but San Francisco got a different sort of deal.
The city exempted Twitter from what could total $22 million in payroll taxes, and the company agreed to stay put. The city estimates that Twitter's work force could grow to 2,600 employees, although the company made no such promise.
A Twitter spokeswoman said the company was ''very happy to have been able to stay in San Francisco.'' City officials did not respond to inquiries.
Like many places, San Francisco has been cutting its budget. Public parks have lost about $12 million in recent years, though workers at Twitter will not lack for greenery. The company's plush new office has a rooftop garden with great views and amenities. Enjoying the perks, one employee sent out a tweet: ''Tanned on Twitter's new roof deck this morning as some dude served me smoothie shots. This is real life?''
A Zero-Sum Game
It was the company every state had to have. In 1985, General Motors was looking for a spot to manufacture its Saturn, a new compact car that would compete with Japanese imports and create thousands of American jobs.
Incentives were not in wide use, and several states had only recently begun to allow more of them.
In fact, when G.M. announced the search, its chairman, Roger Smith, said the perks would not be a predominant factor. ''Tax breaks can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear,'' Mr. Smith told The Detroit Free Press. He said G.M. planned to avoid states that had large debts or lackluster schools.
Undeterred, some 30 states stepped forward in what became a full-out competition. One official, Bill Clinton, then the governor of Arkansas, traveled to Detroit offering income tax credits and sales tax exemptions worth nearly $200 million.
Mr. Smith essentially kept his word and chose Tennessee, which had put together a relatively small package. Reid Rundell, a retired G.M. executive, said in a recent interview that it had come down to geography. ''The primary factor was distribution for incoming parts, as well as outgoing vehicles,'' Mr. Rundell said.
But the gates had been opened. In 1992, South Carolina lured BMW with a $130 million package; the next year, Alabama got Mercedes-Benz at a price tag that topped $300 million.
''What the auto incentives did back then was really raise the profile of economic incentives both within companies, in government and in the public's eye,'' said Mark Sweeney, who worked for the South Carolina Commerce Department in the 1990s and now advises companies on obtaining government grants.
By 1993, governors were regaling one another at a national conference with stories of deals beyond the auto industry, including a recent bidding war for United Airlines that drew more than 90 cities. The airline had set up negotiations in a hotel, and its representatives ran floor to floor comparing bids, said Jim Edgar, then the governor of Illinois.
Mr. Edgar said he had called for a truce, concerned that the practice was unfair to companies that did not receive incentives. But many states would not sign on, he said, particularly those in the South, where businesses were moving.
''If you've got some states doing it, it's hard for the others not to do it,'' Mr. Edgar said. ''It's like unilaterally disarming.''
Soon after, economists at Federal Reserve branches were questioning the use of incentives. One, in Minnesota, used mathematical proofs and game theory to show that competition between states did not increase overall economic value. Several other economists have since called the practice a zero-sum game.
A group of taxpayers in Michigan and Ohio went as far as suing DaimlerChrysler after Ohio and the City of Toledo awarded the automaker $280 million in the late 1990s. The suit argued that it was unfair for one taxpayer to be given a break at the expense of all others.
The suit made its way to the Supreme Court, and G.M. and Ford signed on to briefs supporting Daimler, as did local governments. The National Governors Association warned the court that prohibiting incentives could lead to jobs moving overseas. ''This is the economic reality,'' the association said in a brief.
The governors offered no hard evidence of the effectiveness of tax credits, but the Supreme Court did not consider whether they worked anyway. In 2006, the court concluded that the taxpayers did not have the legal standing to challenge Ohio's tax actions in federal court.
The tab for auto incentives has grown to $13.9 billion since 1985, according to the Center for Automotive Research, a nonprofit group in Ann Arbor, Mich. G.M., the top recipient, was awarded $3.3 billion of the aid. Since 1979, automakers also closed more than 267 plants in the United States, about half of which still sit empty, according to the center.
The auto industry and some local officials have long argued that auto companies create so many jobs and draw in so many supporting suppliers that all taxpayers benefit. Even if companies shut down years later, as Saturn did in Tennessee for a few years, the trade-off is worth it, they said.
''I do believe that if a state ever is going to create incentives,'' said Lamar Alexander, who was Tennessee's governor in 1985 when Saturn selected the state, ''the auto industry would be by far the No. 1 target, because an auto assembly plant is a money target.''
Still, Mr. Alexander, now a United States senator, said that recruiting a large factory today would be more expensive. ''It has changed a lot,'' he said. ''It's almost become a sweepstakes.''
G.M. Gets Into the Act
G.M. may have initially minimized the role of local dollars, but as the company's financial problems grew, incentives became a big part of its math.
The actions of the company were described in more than two dozen in-depth interviews with former company officials, tax consultants and governors and mayors who have dealt with G.M.
The automaker's real estate division, Argonaut Realty, oversaw the hunt for the most lucrative deals. Up and down the corporate ladder, employees were encouraged to push governments for more, according to transcripts of public meetings and interviews. Even G.M. plant managers knew that the future of their facilities depended in part on their ability to send word of big discounts back to Detroit.
Union representatives were enlisted to attend local hearings, putting a human face on the jobs at stake. G.M.'s regional tax managers often showed up, armed with tax abatement wish lists and highlighting the company's gifts to local charities.
''We knew what our investment of X amount meant to the community, and we knew we needed to partner with the community to be successful,'' said Marilyn P. Nix, who worked as a real estate executive at G.M. for 31 years until retiring in 2005.
At the top of G.M., executives reviewed the proposals from various locations and went where the numbers added up.
''I know people like to blame the industry for taking advantage of the incentives, but you go back to what your fiduciary responsibility is to the stockholders,'' Ms. Nix said. ''As long as you've got people that are willing to better the deals, the management owes it to their stockholders to try to get the best economic deal that they can.''
For towns, it became a game of survival, even if the competition turned out to be a mirage.
Moraine, Ohio, was already home to a G.M. plant in 1997 when the company pushed hard for additional incentives. G.M. said it was looking for a place to accommodate more manufacturing.
Wayne Barfels, the city manager at the time, said a G.M. representative had told officials that Moraine was competing with Shreveport, La., and Linden, N.J. After the local school board approved property tax breaks, The Dayton Daily News reported that the other towns had not been in discussions with G.M.
The school board considered rescinding the deal, but allowed G.M. to keep it after a company official apologized. In 2008, G.M. shut the Moraine facility.
In towns where General Motors remains, local officials praised the company. ''I can say they have been a great partner to us,'' said Virg Bernero, the mayor of Lansing, Mich. ''It would do something to the psyche of this community if they were not here. I mean, I just praise God every day.''
Looking to lure businesses beyond automakers, states have routinely bolstered their incentive tool kits. In 2010 alone, states created or expanded about 40 tax credits and exemptions, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
The nature of the credits has also changed. New ones are geared toward attracting technology and green energy companies, but it is hard to know whether 15 years down the road they will thrive or wind up stumbling like the automakers. And many modern companies, like those in digital technology, can easily pack up and leave.
''I don't see anything that suggests that Twitter and Facebook are better bets in the long run,'' said Laura A. Reese, the director of the Global Urban Studies Program at Michigan State University. Ms. Reese advises local governments to invest in residents through education and training rather than in companies where ''it's hard to pick winners.''
Yet states try to do it all the time. In 2010, Rhode Island, which has the nation's second-highest unemployment rate, recruited Curt Schilling, a former Red Sox pitcher, to move his video game company from Massachusetts. The company, 38 Studios, had never released a game and was not making money, but the governor at the time had the state guarantee $75 million in loans.
The company failed and dismissed all of its roughly 400 workers this May. Rhode Island taxpayers are now on the hook for the loans.
Officials said part of the difficulty was that communities do not get much say in a company's business strategy.
''We, as communities, stake our futures with these people who are supposed to know what they're doing, and sometimes they don't,'' said Arthur Walker, a businessman in Shreveport and former chairman of the city's chamber of commerce.
Mr. Walker and other officials in Shreveport know firsthand. In 2000, they were worried that G.M. would close a plant in their area and responded with a generous proposal: the city would cut the company's gas bill and provide work force training grants. In addition, G.M. would benefit by a recent increase in one of the state's income tax credits.
Eager to encourage innovation, Shreveport officials suggested ways the city could assist G.M. in building electric cars. ''We wanted to be part of the future,'' said Mr. Walker, whose brother worked at the plant.
G.M. took the city's incentives but not its business advice and began building the giant Hummer there.
''We knew they needed to build green cars -- I mean, who builds a Hummer for the 21st century?'' Mr. Walker said. ''It was a losing proposition that we found ourselves in. We couldn't win because those people weren't making the correct business decisions, in my view. When it didn't work, we're the ones left holding the bag.''
The Hummer was discontinued in 2010, and the Shreveport factory closed this August, the final victim of G.M.'s bankruptcy.
Ypsilanti's Losing Battle
For much of the last 20 years, Doug Winters has been agitating for General Motors to be held accountable.
Mr. Winters, the attorney for Ypsilanti Township and several other places around Ann Arbor, has lived in Ypsilanti all his life. His grandmother labored at the local plant, Willow Run, during World War II, when it made bomber planes. People in town still proudly point out that a woman known as Rosie the Riveter worked there as well. After the war, when G.M. moved into the plant to manufacture its automatic transmission system, his father got a job.
Mr. Winters loves the history of Willow Run but hates what he views as corporate hypocrisy: G.M. asked for government help on the one hand and then appealed to free-market rationales for closing shop.
Over the years, Ypsilanti granted G.M. more than $200 million in incentives for two factories at Willow Run, Mr. Winters said. ''They had put basically a stranglehold on the entire state of Michigan and other places across the country by just grabbing these tax abatements by the billions,'' he said. ''They were doing it with a very thinly disguised threat that if you don't give us these tax abatements, then we'll have to go somewhere else.''
Ypsilanti first sued G.M. in the 1990s to prevent the company from closing the factory at Willow Run that made the Chevrolet Caprice.
The town had granted the company tax incentives after the factory manager argued that G.M.'s ability to compete with other carmakers was at stake, documents in the lawsuit show. The tax break and ''favorable market demand,'' said the plant manager, Harvey Williams, would allow the automaker to ''maintain continuous employment.''
Nevertheless, G.M. shut the factory. A lower court found in favor of Ypsilanti, but the ruling was reversed on appeal. The judge said that a company's job assurances ''cannot be evidence of a promise.''
In 2010, when the company closed the remaining factory at Willow Run, Mr. Winters sued again. This time, Ypsilanti argued that the automaker should have been forced to close overseas factories instead, especially since American taxpayers had bailed out G.M. In addition, Ypsilanti sought to recover money from G.M., saying the company had agreed to reimburse the town for some incentives if it left.
So far, Ypsilanti's claims have not been addressed. They were complicated by G.M.'s bankruptcy, which allowed the carmaker to emerge as a new company and leave some of its liabilities and contractual obligations behind.
When asked whether the new G.M. has civic responsibilities to its former factory towns, Mr. Cain, the company spokesman, said: ''Our obligation to the communities where we do business is to run a successful business. And when we prosper, it allows us to do more than just turn the lights on and make cars.''
He also said that since the bailout, ''G.M. has invested more than $7.3 billion in its U.S. facilities, and we've created or retained almost 19,000 jobs in communities all over the country.''
Matthew P. Cullen, who oversaw real estate and economic development for G.M. until he left the company in 2008, said the automaker was aware of its impact on communities. He said that what happened with G.M. was the result of an entire industry changing and that there had been no bad intentions.
''If you go forward in good faith doing everything you can and make the investment, then you're partners,'' Mr. Cullen said. ''Sometimes partnerships in business work, and they work for 60 years. And in some cases, they don't, and it doesn't make you a bad partner.''
Some towns that are still dealing with the fallout of plant closings might disagree. In Pontiac, Mich., tax revenues have fallen 40 percent since 2009 after the old G.M. knocked down buildings on its property, resulting in lower tax assessments, according to the city's emergency manager.
In Ypsilanti, an entity set up to sell off G.M. property is marketing the plant as valuable. At the same time, it has been arguing for lower property taxes on the grounds that its plant is not worth much.
Ypsilanti's supervisor, Brenda Stumbo, said the township would be stung hard by further revenue cuts. Ypsilanti has already slimmed down its Fire Department, and city workers are juggling multiple jobs. There are seven to 10 home foreclosures a week, giving the township the highest foreclosure rate in the county, Ms. Stumbo said.
''Can all of it be traced back to General Motors?'' she said, listing auto suppliers that closed after G.M. did. ''No, but a great deal of it can.''
Nonetheless, Ms. Stumbo said that if G.M. would bring jobs back to town, she would be willing to grant the company more incentives.
But Mr. Winters is not so sure. He said he would never support more incentives without stronger protections for Ypsilanti. ''They've done a lot of damage to a lot of people and a lot of communities, and they've basically been given a clean slate,'' he said. ''It's a 'get out of jail free' card.''
United States of Subsidies: This is the first article in a series that will examine business incentives and their impact on jobs and local economies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Motors pushed hard for tax breaks in Ypsilanti Township, Mich. Some $200 million later, this is what remains. (A1)
SARAH ECKHARDT, Travis County, Tex., commissioner
DOUG WINTERS, Ypsilanti Township attorney
MARILYN P. NIX, former real estate executive for General Motors (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The first production model of the Saturn rolled off the assembly line in Spring Hill, Tenn., in 1990. About 30 states engaged in a heated competition for the General Motors plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
This year, Caterpillar announced a new plant in Georgia, which offered $44 million in incentives. Gov. Nathan Deal posed in an excavator outside the Capitol in Atlanta after the announcement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANT SANDERLIN/ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Twitter's rooftop garden in San Francisco. When Twitter threatened to leave the city last year, officials scrambled to assuage the company, giving it tax exemptions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A32)
An abandoned General Motors plant at Willow Run in Ypsilanti Township, Mich. Over the years, Ypsilanti granted G.M. more than $200 million in incentives for two factories at Willow Run, but in the end it did little good. The company closed its last factory there in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Workers at the Ypsilanti plant in 1974. Bomber planes were produced there during World War II. Later, workers made car transmissions. Now the property is on the market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SACKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A33) CHART: How the Information Was Collected: The New York Times used a variety of sources to amass an extensive database of state and local spending on business incentives. Information came from more than 100 records requests to state agencies nationwide and an examination of numerous government reports. Examples of companies that received awards were gleaned from several sources, including Investment Consulting Associates and Good Jobs First, a nonprofit policy center that focuses on economic development. Go to www.nytimes.com/national to see more information and to search the data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LITIGATION (68%); RETAILERS (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: NATHAN DEAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012



52 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Utah Hunters Criticize Market Approach to Licenses and Conservation

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- Todd Huntington, a dentist from a small town in central Utah, considered himself lucky. After two years of failing to secure a hunting permit in the state's random drawing, he won a $35 state permit to shoot a male deer.
Once he was out among the fir and aspen forests of the Wasatch plateau this fall, he came upon a buck, aimed a muzzleloader and pulled the trigger. Nothing happened. As the buck fled, Dr. Huntington glared at his gun and wondered when this chance might come again. ''When I was a teenager, anybody could buy a tag down to the hardware store and away you went,'' he said. ''Now you have to have a degree in wildlife-speak to work your way through all the regulations to be able even to apply.''
It especially bothers him -- and other hunters -- that those with means can buy public licenses through private outlets, paying thousands of dollars to move to the head of the line. More than any state in the West, Utah has expanded hunting opportunities for the well-to-do and has begun to diminish them for those seeking permits directly from the state. 
State wildlife managers recognize this, but they say their motives are grounded in animal -- if not social -- welfare. Utah has embraced an increasingly free-market model as a way to raise more money for conservation.
Here is how it works: the state has enticed ranchers with an allotment of vouchers for lucrative hunting licenses that they can sell for thousands of dollars as part of a private hunt on their land. Many used to complain bitterly to state officials about elk and other game eating forage meant for their cattle.
The vouchers for hunting licenses, handed out for more than 10 years now, give them ample economic incentive to nurture big game on their land and not get frustrated with ranching and sell their land to developers.
Another program, smaller in scope but much more controversial, allows private nonprofit groups to auction off a few hundred licenses to the highest bidder or run their own drawing in exchange for supporting conservation projects. State wildlife managers say that with species like elk, the system is working to produce more game for all.
''We want the most wildlife we can have,'' said Greg Sheehan, the director of the State Division of Wildlife Resources. ''The question is how we do that.''
This new approach, some say, violates a century-old American ethic, articulated by Theodore Roosevelt, himself an avid hunter, that wildlife belongs to all, and not just to those with land or wealth.
''Money has definitely infiltrated our American hunting system,'' said David Allen, the president of the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation, based in Montana. ''Some of it's totally ethical and legal and aboveboard. But is it all good? Maybe, maybe not.''
However deeply the new system has taken root in Utah, efforts to franchise it around the West have faltered. States like Alaska, Arizona and Idaho have rejected large auctions.
Randy Newberg of Bozeman, Mont., whose cable hunting show ''On Your Own Adventures'' runs on the Sportsman Channel, disparaged Utah's approach as unfair. ''A person gets to buy their way to the front of the line when you have people who wait 10, even 20 years for a permit and thousands waiting in line,'' he said. ''It's turning the corner away from what's been the most successful wildlife model in the world.''
The Utah group Sportsmen for Wildlife has benefited most from the auction of what are called ''conservation permits,'' which sell for tens of thousands of dollars. The nonprofit Mule Deer Foundation works with this group in running the annual drawing of ''convention permits.''
Miles Moretti, the president of the foundation, said an auction ''doesn't violate the North American model. It's just they use the tags in a different way to conserve game. Can a guy buy a tag every year for $200,000? Yes. So it's not fair? Well, life's not fair. This is a way to raise money for wildlife.''
For Utah residents like Dr. Huntington, who get permits in a blind draw directly from the state, the cost of a permit for a buck is modest, $35; the same permit for nonresidents in the draw is $263. Resident bull elk permits go for $280, or for $795 for out-of-state hunters. Hunters who do business with private ranchers can pay $10,000 and more for a permit to take one bull elk on prime private land.
The drawing held at the annual hunting expo by the two nonprofit groups gives the convention a high profile; attendees contribute $5 million or more to the economy of Salt Lake City. This convention drawing is popular; the $5 entry fees have raised about $1 million.
Critics of the auction and the convention drawing, like Tye Boulter, the president of the United Wildlife Cooperative, said that too much of the money made by the Mule Deer Foundation and Sportsmen for Wildlife went to promoting the groups and lobbying for their political causes.
But Mr. Moretti said, ''We believe we've fulfilled our obligation'' to bring in convention dollars and support wildlife projects.
An audit of the $1 million from the convention drawing was made public in August, prompted by Mr. Boulter's complaints. It showed that about $250,000 went toward lobbying for increased hunting of wolves, which at the time were still listed as endangered in the Northern Rockies. ''They are catering to the industry -- guides, outfitters, landowners, things like that,'' Mr. Boulter argued, saying groups that support wolf hunts are not necessarily conservationists.
Mr. Boulter also objects to the increasing privatization of state-controlled hunting opportunities. ''These wildlife aren't commodities,'' he said. ''These are a public trust.''
About 113 tracts of private ranchland have access to big-game permits for hunts on their land. As part of the arrangement, Utah requires them to open their land to public hunters who enter a general drawing.
The most important element of the system is getting ranchers to think differently about wildlife, said Kevin Bunnell of the State Division of Wildlife Resources. ''It turned people who used to be critical of wildlife into advocates for wildlife,'' he said.
This year, 3,209 licenses for deer, elk, moose or pronghorn were disbursed by ranchers -- about 2 percent of the 142,000 licenses available for all game.
The math works differently with trophy hunts. Most of the permits to take the more coveted antlered game on ranchland are reserved for the big-spending private hunters -- 60 percent of the pronghorn bucks, more than 85 percent of the bull elk and nearly 90 percent of buck deer.
Mr. Boulter does see benefit in the conservation aspects of the ranch program and believes strongly in hunting rights on private property. But he remains troubled. ''Monetizing wildlife is a big deal,'' he said, adding that it was taking North American wildlife management backward, not forward. ''Aristocrats, slowly, are getting more opportunity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Utah has expanded hunting opportunities for wealthy buyers of public licenses and has begun to diminish them for those seeking permits directly from the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILD COUNTRY OUTFITTERS AT DESERET CWMU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); SPORT HUNTING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ANIMALS (74%); ETHICS (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); HARDWARE STORES (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012



53 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Secure Border Crimps Commerce Along It

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Brenna Rae Goth contributed reporting.

 BODY:
DOUGLAS, Ariz. -- When the copper smelters closed, the jobs dried up and the people who used to sustain the small shops along this border city's commercial strips left to find work elsewhere, the Ortega family looked toward the neighbor to the south, Agua Prieta, Mexico, for a new clientele.
For decades, catering to Mexicans had been a reliable business plan for the Ortegas and many other store owners here, a multigenerational band of believers who have been around too long to give up. But the tight border enforcement prompted by the Sept. 11 attacks -- and amplified by the harsh realities and language of drug violence and illegal immigration -- gradually made it harder to get across the border legally, then too much of a bother, and finally a discomfiting waste of time.
Like the copper smelter workers, the Mexicans, little by little, also began to disappear. 
An unforgiving blow came about two years ago, when the American government turned down a request by officials on both sides of the border to resume issuing visas in Agua Prieta, which it had stopped doing several years earlier, forcing whoever wanted them to travel 115 miles to Nogales, a costly undertaking for Mexicans relying on lean monthly salaries to survive.
''I understand the need for securing our border,'' said Bill Thomas, 64, who runs Thomas Home Furnishings, a store his father founded 59 years ago, 11 blocks from a port of entry now so fortified and congested that the city had to build a road to steer the lines of idling cars waiting to get across away from local streets. ''But what we've done is, we've shut out the honest guy.''
The feeling is the same along much of the Mexican border in Arizona, where an imposing wall of corrugated steel disconnects main streets, shared histories and binational family ties. It has also begun to seep deeper, among business owners and elected officials inside a state known for its iron-fisted approach to illegal immigration.
The Metropolitan Tucson Convention and Visitors Bureau has been running a media campaign in the Mexican border state of Sonora and its neighbor to the south, Sinaloa, to dispel any notions that Arizona is unwelcoming.
(After Arizona passed its strict immigration law in 2010, the Mexican government issued a warning to its citizens, telling them to assume that they could be ''harassed and questioned'' in Arizona ''at any time.'')
On Nov. 16, Tucson's mayor, Jonathan Rothschild, made his first official trip to Nogales, Mexico, to visit a port of entry that is under expansion and for which he has lobbied for an increase in staffing. At a meeting in October, mayors in the economic development committee at the Maricopa Association of Governments, a regional planning group based in Phoenix, embraced a unifying slogan: ''We're all border communities.''
''Mexicans spend about $2 billion a year in Arizona,'' said the committee's chairman, Thomas L. Schoaf, the mayor of Litchfield Park, a suburb of Phoenix. ''They go to the Biltmore'' Fashion Park, an upscale mall in Phoenix, and ''they go to Flagstaff.''
About 21 million Mexicans cross legally into Arizona every year, Mr. Schoaf said; in Santa Cruz County, which runs along the border, their spending accounts for 40 percent of the sales tax revenue. ''A significant part of our economic vitality is related to people who cross the border,'' Mr. Schoaf said, ''so we need to make the crossing more efficient.''
Erik Lee, the associate director of the North American Center for Transborder Studies at Arizona State University, said old infrastructure and inadequate staffing were largely to blame for the costly and unpredictably long waits at border crossings. While the number of Border Patrol agents has virtually doubled since 2004, to 23,306 from 11,684, the number of customs inspectors, who operate the ports of entry, increased by only 12 percent, to 21,893 from 19,525, according to federal statistics.
On average, it took 66 minutes to cross the border from Nogales, Mexico, to Nogales, Ariz., in 2008, costing the regional economy about $200 million, according to estimates compiled by Mr. Lee and Christopher E. Wilson of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Projections by the Commerce Department say the average time to get through ports of entry into the United States will rise to 99 minutes by 2017, a delay the department estimates could cost a total of $12 billion for the economies on the two sides.
Looking at his electronic ledger, Josué Lopez, who runs Casa Enrique Uniforms here, a store that his father, who was born in Agua Prieta, bought 39 years ago, said, ''There's a lot of money being lost in the name of security.''
His business depends heavily on Mexican customers: schools require uniforms, which Mr. Lopez sells, along with the uniforms used by many of the factory and medical workers on the other side of the border. Things were going well until three years ago, he said, but then a lot of his customers stopped coming as their visas expired.
In 2010, sales were down 23 percent, and though there was a small recovery last year, he said it was only because ''we slimmed down the business and started focusing on the top products that we knew would move.''
In March, voters in this city of barely 18,000 residents elected Danny Ortega Jr., a third-generation Ortega running the family's shoe and clothing stores, as mayor. He was ''someone we thought could understand what we're going through,'' Mr. Lopez said.
Mr. Ortega, 50, took office in June, bent on finding a lifesaver for his and Douglas's future. He hired a consultant from Phoenix to push the federal government for changes: an extra southbound lane at the border crossing, which opened on Nov. 16, and a dedicated lane for prescreened drivers and pedestrians, which has yet to happen.
''Let's not be so regimented and look at every person coming in from Mexico as someone who's going to commit a crime,'' said Mr. Ortega, who left I.B.M. after 23 years to help his father and siblings run the family business. ''Our financial sustainability is dependent on them.''
He hired a bilingual city manager, and he has reached out to the mayor of Agua Prieta, Irma Villalobos Terán, to figure out ways to cooperate, regardless of federal policies beyond their control. They also joined a meeting in October hosted by the Mexican consul in Douglas, Oscar Antonio de la Torre Amezcua, to discuss ways to promote shopping tourism on both sides of the border.
''We either help ourselves,'' Mr. Ortega said, ''or we will die.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Agua Prieta, Mexico, on the left above, has a main street directly south of the border fence that is active with people and businesses. On the north side, Douglas, Ariz., left, has businesses that have struggled or failed, particularly since the American government stopped issuing visas in Agua Prieta about two years ago. (A23)
 Mayor Danny Ortega Jr. of Douglas, Ariz., has reached out to Irma Villalobos Terán, his counterpart in Agua Prieta, Mexico, to figure out ways to cooperate, regardless of federal policies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAMANTHA SAIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); TERRORISM (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012



54 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5636 words

HEADLINE: Hide-and-Seek in Belize

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
AMBERGRIS CAYE, Belize
DANIEL GUERRERO promised during his campaign for mayor here to clean up San Pedro, the only town on this island, a 20-minute puddle jump from the mainland. But if he ever runs for re-election, don't expect him to mention that vow.
''I meant clean up the trash, the traffic, that sort of thing,'' he says. ''I didn't mean this.''
''This'' is a full-blown international media frenzy and the kind of mess that no politician could have seen coming. It started on Nov. 11, the morning that Gregory Faull, a 52-year-old American, was found dead, lying face up in a pool of blood in his home. He had been shot in the head. His laptop and iPhone were missing. A 9-millimeter shell was found nearby. 
What happened next turned this from a local crime story to worldwide news: The police announced that a ''person of interest'' in the investigation was a neighbor, John McAfee, a Silicon Valley legend who years ago earned millions from the computer virus-fighting software company that still bears his name.
A priapic 67-year-old, with an improbable mop of blond-highlighted hair and a rotating group of young girlfriends, Mr. McAfee quickly melted into the island's lush green forest. Then, for Belizean authorities, the real embarrassment began.
Asserting his innocence, Mr. McAfee became a multiplatform cyberdissident, with a Twitter account, and a blog at whoismcafee.com with audio links, a comments section, photographs and a stream of invective against the government and the police of Belize. He has done interviews on podcasts, like the ''Joe Rogan Experience,'' and offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of ''the person or persons'' who killed Mr. Faull. He has turned lamming it into a kind of high-tech performance art.
''I am asking all people of conscience to read this blog, especially the links in the 'Background' section,' and see the ugly truth unfolding here,'' he posted on Nov. 18. ''Speak out. Write your congressmen. Write the prime minister. Do what you can.''
Before he went underground, Mr. McAfee led a noisy, opulent and increasingly stressful life here. He was known for the retinue of prostitutes who he says moved in and out of his house, and for employing armed guards, some of whom stood watch on the beach abutting his house. He also kept a pack of untethered dogs on his property who barked at and sometimes bit passers-by.
Two days before the murder, someone had poisoned a handful of those dogs. As it happens, Mr. Faull had complained about the animals, as well as the guards and the constant late-night inflow and outflow of taxis on the dirt path that runs behind his and Mr. McAfee's homes -- a path so tiny that it's supposed to be off-limits to cars.
Mr. Faull had shown up at the town council office a few weeks ago with a letter decrying the din and the dogs, as well as Mr. McAfee's guns and behavior. Nothing came of it.
''We were planning to meet with John McAfee and hand him the letter,'' Mr. Guerrero said. ''But it never happened. We were busy doing other work.''
In hindsight, that looks like a blunder. Mr. McAfee has since said on his blog that he had no choice but to flee because police and politicians in Belize are corrupt and eager to kill him. As proof, he has written at length about a late April raid that the country's Gang Suppression Unit conducted at a property of his on the mainland, in a district called Orange Walk.
Some McAfee watchers have a different theory -- namely, that he grew paranoid and perhaps psychotic after months of experimenting with and consuming MDPV, a psychoactive drug. These experiments were described in detail by Mr. McAfee himself, under the pseudonym ''Stuffmonger'' in a forum on Bluelight, a Web site popular with drug hobbyists.
So, here's one hypothesis: Rich man doses himself to madness while seeking sexual bliss through pharmacology. Then shoots neighbor in a rage. Case closed, right? Ah, but those Bluelight posts were a ruse, Mr. McAfee would later blog, just one of the many pranks he has perpetrated over the years -- part of a bet with a friend to see if he could create Bluelight's largest-ever thread.
''I am indeed that same Stuffmonger,'' he posted on Nov. 20. ''I, however, do not do drugs, and I am no chemist. I am, however, a practical joker who does not mind investing months in a given joking enterprise.''
Joke or not, the posts and every element of his new renegade life have gone viral. Which is to say, the guy has done it again. Throughout his varied, occasionally confounding and hoax-filled career, the one constant has been a genius for self-promotion. Little of his adult life has gone unpublicized. The current inconvenience of hiding has simply altered his stratagems and given his usual winking and mischievous tone an angry, survivalist cast.
Since disappearing, he hasn't merely evaded police officers sent to unearth him. He has taunted them. He has contended on his blog that when the authorities searched his house in the days after the murder, he hovered nearby in preposterous-sounding disguises, including that of a drunk German tourist in a Speedo and ''a distasteful, oversized Hawaiian shirt'' who would yell ''at anyone who would listen.'' He has also said he dressed as a stooped Guatemalan peddler ''in ragged brown pants,'' his cheeks stuffed with chewing gum, selling wares to tourists and reporters.
If you visit Mr. McAfee's house, the charade sounds laughable, in part because the beach is all but abandoned. Nonetheless, the contention led Foxnews.com to post this headline: ''John McAfee Reveals His Secret Hiding Place: His Home.''
Mr. McAfee has also used the blog to highlight the plight of Belize's underclass. Or, rather, a narrow niche of the underclass: the poor and fetching young women whom he has slept with -- including the one who is hiding out with him now, whom he calls Sam. The blog is Amnesty International meets Hugh Hefner as played by Jean Valjean, the unfairly hounded peasant of ''Les Misérables.''
Except that nobody has accused Mr. McAfee of anything, other than being ''bonkers,'' as the country's prime minister, Dean Barrow, put it to a reporter when the chase began. Mayor Guerrero sounds more patient, but his idea of boosterism surely doesn't involve a murder, followed by a manhunt for a rich, tattooed, gun-loving, harem-tending, government-hating, media-savvy gringo, a word by which Americans of all races are known here.
Mr. Guerrero has offered to accompany Mr. McAfee personally to the police station here, to allay any fears of mistreatment. It's an offer that he believes Mr. McAfee won't accept.
''I think he's living a movie in his mind,'' Mr. Guerrero, ''and he's enjoying the movie.''
SAN PEDRO is a kind of budget Margaritaville, with an eastern shore lined with beaches, midmarket hotels and bars where there is often basketball on television and Bon Jovi on the jukebox. With its narrow streets and tiny roundabouts, it looks like the miniature resort version of a British colony, though much of the place is a bit rickety and could use a fresh coat of paint. During the day, if you're not in the mood to snorkel around the gorgeous coral reefs, there is no shortage of hammocks.
Most visitors are Americans who come for three or four days, but in recent years, Belize has attracted its share of people who move here to lie low, for one reason or another.
''I call it the Island of Misfit Toys,'' says Eileen Jamison, behind the counter of DandE's Frozen Custard and Sorbet. ''Ever see the movie 'Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer?' They stop at this Island of Misfit Toys -- a doll that cried, a train with square wheels. We've got some misfit toys here. Weirdos.''
During a recent eight-day visit here, I tried to get in touch with Mr. McAfee, and interviewed his friends and former employees. This proved harder than it initially sounded. Many in Mr. McAfee's circle have their own irrational fears and more than a few refused to speak for reasons that I discovered only at the end of the stay.
''The word is out there you're with the F.B.I.,'' said a man entwined in Mr. McAfee's life, the day before I left. ''Nobody believes you're a reporter.''
It turns out that proving you are not with the F.B.I. is kind of tricky. All of my credentials suddenly looked forged, even to me. But the wariness of some locals merely reflects their fear of the authorities. Much of what Mr. McAfee has written about police misconduct rings true to a certain stratum of the populace here, and conspiracy theories are rampant. Several people say they believe that the government is pursuing Mr. McAfee because it wants to seize his property.
That seems even more absurd once you see the property. It's five miles north of San Pedro, in a sparsely populated part of the island called Mata Grande. His villa is next to a pristine beach and a dock. A white picket fence lines the property with a sign that reads ''Never Mind the Dog. Beware of Owner,'' next to an image of a hand wrapped around a smoking revolver. Behind the fence is a pool, and behind the pool is a one-story, blue and white house. A number of bungalows are spread around the property, a few of them in Caribbean shades of purple and yellow. The villa, which was listed for $1.7 million when Mr. McAfee bought it, is less luxurious-looking than you might expect. The grounds are unkempt, and parts of it are under construction.
One recent afternoon, two men were there working on a new addition. They know that their boss has skedaddled but say they are still being paid by a groundskeeper.
''The dogs were buried back there,'' one of the workers said, taking a quick break and pointing to a patch of ground at the rear of the property. He was referring to the poisoned dogs. Mr. McAfee wrote on his blog that he found them writhing in agony and vomiting blood and shot them to end their misery. Then he buried them. ''The police came recently and dug them back up,'' the worker said. ''And cut their heads off.''
Presumably, the government was looking for bullets in the heads of the dogs, to compare with the bullet that killed Mr. Faull. The results of those tests have not been made public.
Mr. McAfee bought this property four years ago and, like much else about him, the reasons for his relocation, and what he was doing here, are a bit murky.
What is certain is that he bought a water taxi service and started a couple of small local businesses. The most ambitious was QuorumEx, a biotech start-up that aspired to develop natural antibiotics with plants in the Belizean rain forest.
In 2010, he told Jeff Wise, a reporter with Fast Company, that he came up with the idea after a chance meeting with Allison Adonizio, then a 31-year-old with a doctorate in ethnobotany from Florida International University, who was vacationing in Belize. She passed on a three-year research grant offered by the National Institutes for Health to lead research for QuorumEx. The idea for the company made a certain sense: a guy who had spent years fighting computer viruses turns his attention and talents to combating bacteria.
But reporters who visited Mr. McAfee had a hard time figuring out how much of the operation was authentic and how much was sleight of hand, and he seemed to relish the confusion. In Fast Company's article, published in May 2010, Mr. Wise wrote that Mr. McAfee didn't seem very focused on QuorumEx's stated mission. Instead, he told the reporter, he and his colleagues were rummaging around the forest in search of an herbal version of Viagra for women.
Within a few weeks of the article's publication, Ms. Adonizio and Mr. McAfee had a falling out. The two had made no progress with their antibiotics work, Ms. Adonizio would later tell Mr. Wise. But that was the least of it. After she broke up with her boyfriend, she told the reporter, Mr. McAfee had implied that he could have the guy killed. She said Mr. McAfee also tried to fix her up with what she described as ''crazy circus folk,'' apparently a reference to his friends. She says he showed her pornographic Web sites that were disturbingly kinky. When at last she said she wanted out of their business partnership, she contended that he physically lunged at her, and that she had to lock herself in a lab.
''As soon as I started questioning his motives, he turned on me and became a horrible, horrible person, controlling, manipulative and dangerous,'' Ms. Adonizio told Mr. Wise, once she had returned to the United States. ''I'm thankful that I got out with my life.''
Asked about all of this by Mr. Wise, Mr. McAfee said ''Allison is an unhappy person who is unhappy to the core. Whatever's on the table, she will turn it this way, that way, and make something out of it, to be the cause of her unhappiness.''
A FEW months before Ms. Adonizio left Belize, Mr. McAfee introduced himself as Stuffmonger on Bluelight. He had started a thread on the site about MDPV, one of several drugs known by the deceptively benign name of bath salts. He wrote that he wanted recreate what he called ''super perv powder,'' a light brown version of MDPV that he tried in 2006. The drug delivered a jolt to his nether parts that he never forgot. ''I think it's the finest drug ever conceived,'' he wrote in his first Bluelight post, ''not just for the indescribable hypersexuality but also for the smooth euphoria and mild comedown.''
The point of his Bluelight posts, Stuffmonger wrote, was to describe his experiments to recreate ''the tan,'' as he christened the drug, a slightly darker version of MDPV which he said was no longer commercially available. He hoped that others would chip in and help. To that end, his posts offer chemistry-set pointers (''If the yellow-green color happens, don't worry, you haven't lost anything. Add water, pour it back in the flask and heat slowly'') and warnings (''A 100 mg dose of the tan will merely guarantee fatigue and sore genitals from nonstop sex and keep you up for 24 hours max'').
The posts were accompanied by photographs of Stuffmonger's lab, and close-up shots of powders he had created. Among other Bluelight posters, there were some skeptics, including a person who figured that Stuffmonger was shilling for a company selling MDPV. But there were true believers, too, including a guy who said he'd followed Stuffmonger's instructions and wound up with a drug that he and his girlfriend had tried with a success that was almost frightening. The two had sex with such riotous abandon, he reported, that the next day they could hardly look at each other.
In all, Stuffmonger posted more than 200 times, and his ''last activity,'' according to Bluelight's profile page, was two days before the discovery of Mr. Faull's body.
Whether these Bluelight posts were just a charade, as Mr. McAfee contends, is impossible to say. But Dr. Paul Earley, an addiction specialist in Atlanta, said that MDPV users commonly rhapsodize about their early experiences, claiming the drug makes them alert, activated and in some cases fantastically randy.
''That's part of the danger,'' Dr. Earley said. ''The absence of any apparent side effects lures users into heavier and heavier doses and at some point, for reasons we don't fully understand, MDPV becomes extremely toxic. Users become psychotic and paranoid. They hallucinate monsters. Often they think the police are after them. That is the classic MDPV profile.''
Mr. McAfee has written on his blog that he has not taken drugs or had a drink since 1983. He told Joshua Davis, a reporter for Wired who has written an e-book about Mr. McAfee, that pre-1983 he had been an alcoholic and a heavy cocaine user -- snorting lines in his office at a Santa Clara, Calif., company called Omex and downing a bottle of Scotch a day. He said he was coping with the scars of a terrifying childhood in Roanoke, Va., where he grew up with a father who was an alcoholic who beat him and his mother; the father later committed suicide.
By 1983, Mr. McAfee was worried that he was headed for a similar demise. His wife had split, he had no job and no friends and rarely left his house. Then he entered Alcoholics Anonymous and has been sober ever since.
And not just sober, but an evangelizing teetotaler. He demanded that his employees in Belize abstain, or they'd be fired. ''Zero tolerance,'' said Herman Wade, who has served as Mr. McAfee's driver since March. ''He heard that I'd had a drink once and he said: 'I don't want to hear you were ever drinking again. Smart people don't drink alcohol.' That's a quote. It seemed a little excessive because we're talking about your free time, but those were his rules.''
WHEN Mr. McAfee argued on his blog that his Bluelight postings were an elaborate prank, he did provide one incontrovertible piece of evidence: his long history of elaborate pranks. They turn up, time and again, in the story of his professional life.
He was working on a voice-recognition program at Lockheed when, in 1987, he founded McAfee Associates out of his home in Santa Clara. If the man was inclined toward paranoia, he'd found the right job; computer virus protection is all about fighting threats that you can't see coming.
But his chief contribution to the company was marketing the product. He had the idea, revolutionary at the time, to give it away online and earn money through corporate licensing fees. Millions rolled in, but not fast enough for Mr. McAfee. In 1992, the same year the company had gone public, he began hyping the threat of a virus called Michelangelo, contending in television and newspaper interviews that it would waylay millions of computers.
The scare came and went with little notable impact, other than the one it had on the balance sheet of the company (very positive) and the reputation of Mr. McAfee (very negative). He left the company in 1994, having decided that he wasn't a great manager. His net worth was said to peak at $100 million. In 2010, the company, then known as McAfee Inc., was acquired by Intel for $7.68 billion.
After his exit, Mr. McAfee's life entered its eccentric-small-time-entrepreneur phase. He bought a plot of land in Colorado, where he ran a yoga retreat and wrote yoga books. He later acquired property in Rodeo, N.M., , and founded the Southwest Aerotrekking Academy, a school where people learned to fly motorized ultralights that screamed low over the desert at 70 to 80 miles per hour.
When people nearby, in Portal, Ariz., objected to the buzzing of his ''Sky Gypsies,'' as he called them, he came up with some creative diversions. One was a made-up organization of lesbian bikers, who were said to be on the verge of rumbling into town for an annual meeting. Another was a fabricated paintball group, complete with its own Web site, that was said to be heading to Portal.
''There was a rumor going around and everyone was really upset about it,'' said Joan Jensen, who works at Portal's post office. ''We have a lot of environmentalists around here, and none of them wanted a bunch of people playing paintball running around the canyon.''
When the Great Recession hit, Mr. McAfee publicly contended that he was down to his last $4 million, and he showed up in a number of articles, including one in The New York Times, as an example of a superrich guy laid low by the downturn. The stock market drop combined with the collapse of the real estate market, he said, had gobbled up most of this assets. He sold off the aerotrekking school and an assortment of properties in what looked like a fire sale. Then he moved to Belize.
It's unclear, though, how extensive these losses were. In April 2008, Mr. McAfee was named in a wrongful-death lawsuit by the family of Robert Gilson, a 61-year-old who died in a crash of an aerotrekker piloted by Mr. McAfee's nephew, who was also killed. Frank Fleming, a lawyer for the Gilson family, says Mr. McAfee might have poor-mouthed his own fortune and left for Belize as part of a legal strategy.
''I think he believes that because the U.S. and Belize don't have a bilateral treaty a judgment in a U.S. court is worthless in Belize,'' Mr. Fleming said in a recent interview. ''I don't think he's right about that.''
Whatever Mr. McAfee's reasons or the scale of his wealth, he ended up buying a number of properties on the Belize mainland, as well as the villa in Ambergris Caye, about a few hundred yards north of the home of Gregory Faull.
Mr. McAfee would prove to be a horrible neighbor.
''THIS is not a wallet,'' said Jeff Spiegel, tapping something metallic-sounding in a front pocket of his cargo shorts.
A former punk rock label manager with a shaved head, Mr. Spiegel was speaking through mirrored sunglasses. He had just escorted a handful of people out of Mr. Faull's home and up the beach to the Rojo Lounge, the restaurant he owns and runs with his wife, Vivien Yu. Mr. Spiegel was in the front of the entourage, and a man in military fatigues with a machine gun slung over his shoulder brought up the rear.
In between were the parents and some friends of Mr. Faull. For years, Rojo was his hangout of choice. The group being chaperoned this afternoon -- six days after Mr. Faull's death -- was heading to the restaurant's outdoor bar for an impromptu memorial service.
''When we learned that Greg's family was coming in, we asked Belize authorities for security,'' said Mr. Spiegel, explaining the machine gun. ''For the family's peace of mind and for their privacy.''
Sitting at a table at his restaurant, Mr. Spiegel took a break from his duties as chef to discuss Mr. Faull, mostly, he said, because he is worried that the man will wind up as a footnote in the story of his own death.
''He was the kind of guy who could walk into a bar knowing nobody and leave with a dozen friends,'' Mr. Spiegel said.
He refused to say much of anything about Mr. McAfee, other than to describe his residence as the site of ''a longstanding, uncomfortable situation.''
''You walk the beach at night and there is somebody holding a shotgun, shining a flashlight in your face, leaning up against a tree,'' Mr. Spiegel said. ''If you expect it and you live next door, you can just say, 'Get that lead out of my face.' If you're a tourist walking up the beach, it's incredibly disconcerting.''
Mr. Spiegel was one of the first people on the scene the morning of the crime, and checked the body to make sure that Mr. Faull was dead. He wouldn't speculate about who committed the murder. But asked if Mr. Faull might have poisoned Mr. McAfee's dogs, he thought for a moment.
''Here's how I explained this to his dad,'' Mr. Spiegel said. ''If indeed he did it, it wasn't because he was a cruel person, it wasn't because he was filled with hatred. The only reason he would have done it is if he felt that all avenues existing to address the problem had been exhausted, and there was no government agency that existed or that could intervene. In the same way he was hard-working in other aspects of his life, if this is something he did it was simply because,'' and here Mr. Spiegel paused briefly and then spoke as though trying to control his anger, ''somebody has to do something, at some point. Does that mean, he did it? No. But did there exist a legitimate problem that wasn't being addressed? Absolutely.''
He then pointed to one of his legs and two dime-size dark purple marks, about an inch apart -- a bite, he said, from one of Mr. McAfee's dogs.
''That was four years ago,'' he added. ''I'm sure you can see that this is not some trivial, neighborly'' dispute.
THE last two years of Mr. McAfee's life have been turbulent even by his own standards. As he waited for QuorumEx to produce some breakthroughs, he spent time in a tiny Belizean village called Carmelita, not far from his research lab in Orange Walk. He says he began a volatile relationship there with a young prostitute who helped convince him that the place was riddled with crime and a hub of narco-trafficking. That prompted a one-man, Gary Cooper-style campaign to impose a bit of law and order. Mr. McAfee confronted local thugs. He converted a local brothel into a bar and a family swimming-pool area, christening it Studio 54. He bought a building and outfitted it as a police station, the village's first.
Many locals say they were a little wary of this crusade, in part because Mr. McAfee hadn't bothered to ask if they needed the help and in part because they thought Carmelita was hardly the crime-infested swamp that he assumed it to be. The police were initially appreciative but kept a certain distance.
''They never used the police station he built,'' said Noel Codd, who manages Studio 54. ''They thought it came with strings attached, that John would be involved with the police's day-to-day affairs.''
Among the police, mistrust hardened into suspicion as Mr. McAfee added more security guards to his compound and as he started to either win over or negotiate truces with local drug dealers.
A rich guy, in the middle of the jungle, with a lab surrounded by a lot of men with weapons, and links to area bad guys: it looked highly suspicious to the Gang Suppression Unit, which in late April raided his compound looking for what it assumed was a meth lab. Mr. McAfee was handcuffed and left to broil in the sun while the G.S.U. collected equipment and shot one of his dogs after it menaced one of the agents. Mr. McAfee was arrested and spent the night in jail, charged with the unlicensed manufacturing of drugs and possession of an unlicensed weapon. The charges were later dropped -- the G.S.U. was certain that meth wasn't being produced in that lab -- but the experience seemed to amplify Mr. McAfee's sense of persecution.
''He had a complex network of informants,'' says Chad Essley, an animation director who visited Mr. McAfee a few months ago. ''He was constantly on the phone. He would know if a certain boat was coming up the beach.''
Mr. Essley, who lives in Portland, Ore., met Mr. McAfee online, through a private message board where Mr. McAfee had often posted about his life and adventures. After the raid, Mr. Essley wrote to Mr. McAfee to ask if he was all right. Mr. McAfee responded by inviting him to visit, all expenses paid. Mr. Essley went in part because he thought the trip might provide fodder for a graphic novel, now a work in progress called ''The Hinterland.''
''I think in a way he needed someone who was outside his reality and who was friendly and wasn't out for anything,'' Mr. Essley said. ''I met this woman there named Helen and at some point, either she or John said that they needed someone there to document things that were too crazy for words. And they needed some levity. I wasn't able to bring any levity, because the situation wasn't very funny.''
A lot of Mr. McAfee's time was spent in the arms of one of his girlfriends, Mr. Essley said, or watching DVDs. But there was also a lot of interaction with sketchy types in the area, he said. Mr. Essley never figured out what link they had to Mr. McAfee, though his sense was that they circled him because they knew he was rich.
''Strange people would show up on the beach, asking for jobs,'' Mr. Essley recalled. ''They'd say: 'Where is your boss? We want to speak to him.' I'd take down their phone number and give it to John.''
The real problem, in Mr. McAfee's own telling, was not these job seekers. In September this year, on the private message board where he met Mr. Essley, he published the first part of what he called ''Darkness Falls,'' which he said was ''a tale of intrigue and deception, involving great risks and dangers.''
Much of the post, which was made public by Gizmodo, is given over to detailed descriptions and photographs of the seven women who, he said, shared his bed. (''And there is Betsy. Betsy hunted me down two years ago to complain that one of my dogs had eaten one of her chickens.'') There are also portents of some scheme involving local gang members and perhaps the government of Belize, though that part of the story is low on particulars. ''Simple robbery and murder were the motives of this plot,'' he writes, ''but in the minds of the perpetrators the gains were expected to be in the millions of dollars -- thus the elaborate preparation and the large number of players.'' Answers are promised in a Part 2, but that has not been published publicly.
Mr. McAfee seemed to believe that he was in the cross hairs of dangerous and powerful people, and that they were ready to pounce.
One night in October, they did. Or at least Mr. McAfee believed that they did.
A real estate agent in Ambergris Caye named Chris Allnatt woke up at his home the next morning at 5:30 and was amazed to find Mr. McAfee asleep on his balcony, pants soaked with urine. Mr. McAfee had been renting the condo next door, and he later told Wired magazine that he high-tailed it after 30 to 40 police officers and Coast Guard personnel came for him in the middle of the night. He had traversed a narrow ledge, in the dark, 20 feet above the ground to reach Mr. Allnatt's balcony.
Mr. McAfee would later fall back on his go-to explanation for all bizarre behavior: he was kidding. He contended on his blog that he was merely playing a joke on Mr. Allnatt, who happens to be the agent who sold him that Mata Grande villa. ''I was scammed to the max on the deal and merely filed away in my mind that the score should someday be settled in an amicable and amusing (for me) fashion that benefited me in some way,'' he wrote.
How showing up asleep on Mr. Allnatt's balcony is supposed to settle a score, or amuse anyone, is a mystery. But Mr. Allnatt's version of this episode, you may not be surprised to learn, is a little different. There were no police officers or Coast Guard personnel around that evening, he said. He would have heard them. Also, Mr. Allnatt said he believes that Mr. McAfee ''was messed up on drugs.''
''When he woke up, he was all over the place, and later when my wife looked around the balcony, she found a little Ziploc bag filled with gray powder, which he'd hidden among our plants,'' Mr. Allnatt said. ''I almost considered calling and demanding an apology because we don't do drugs. I don't care if others do, but how dare he bring it on our property?'' He said he washed the contents of the bag down a drain and would never have discussed it if Mr. McAfee hadn't told the story to Wired.
Mr. McAfee's isolation and sense of despair would quickly deepen. About a week before the murder, said Mr. Wade, his driver, he fired his four bodyguards because he thought they were talking to the government. (In their place, he hired a British man.) When Mr. McAfee's dogs were poisoned, on Friday, Nov. 9, he e-mailed Mr. Davis, the Wired reporter, and wrote that ''a contingent of black-suited thugs'' had swarmed the beach near his home. ''A half-hour later,'' he said, ''all of my dogs had been poisoned.''
Soon after Mr. Faull was found dead, that Sunday morning, police officers arrived at Mr. McAfee's house. He would later contend that he eluded them by digging a hole, covering it with a cardboard box and lying still for hours. He accused Belizean authorities of the murder, figuring that they came to kill him and shot the wrong white guy. The government said this was ludicrous.
THE phone rang while I was shaving. ''This is John McAfee. I understand you want to talk to me. You've got four minutes. This is a third-world country but they can still triangulate a call.''
I had left my number with Mr. Essley and asked him to forward it to Mr. McAfee with a request for an interview. Ten minutes later, the interview had begun. I asked how he was faring, presumably in circumstances that were relatively austere.
''I'm doing fine under the circumstances,'' he said. ''I'm eating fairly normally. I can survive on bananas, and peanut butter and canned food.''
He sounded assured, serious and determined. There was no hint of the jokester who liked to wear disguises or grab his crotch for photographs.
Does he have any idea who killed his dogs? ''The only person I know who didn't do it is Greg Faull,'' he said, ''because he loved dogs and people who love dogs don't kill other people's dogs.''
I asked if it wasn't crazy to think that the Belize police would kill him, now that his case had attracted so much media attention.
''I would like to point something out. Research Arthur Young,'' he said, referring to a gang leader who was reportedly shot dead by police in April, after he'd been apprehended. ''Police were saying, 'We only want to talk to you.' They handcuffed his hands behind his back. You know very little about the police and the judicial system here.''
He then theorized that if he turned himself in, the police might well take him into custody and hang him using his pants, making it look like a suicide.
''Come on,'' he said, as though talking to a naif. ''Get real, sir.''
The call ended. As of late Friday, Mr. McAfee was still evading the 20 police officers and members of the Gang Suppression Unit that are said to be looking for him. He has been tapping out a steady flow of words and updates on his blog, and projecting an air of contented defiance. Recently, he announced that he and Sam had been secreted into the home of a friend and had enjoyed a bath and a cup of coffee.
''Life is good,'' he wrote.
To a modest segment of San Pedro, he is a kind of folk hero, outwitting a crooked and feckless government that has failed to provide much in the way of economic opportunity. To others, he's a tragic case of a superior mind gone haywire. He needs help, they say, and if he is really innocent, he should get it, as soon as possible.
To still others, he's a publicity seeker, par excellence. Mr. Spiegel, the Rojo Lounge owner, has a simple, low-budget plan to drive him out of hiding. ''The police should declare him a person of noninterest,'' Mr. Spiegel says. ''Soon as they do that, he'll be knocking on their door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top right, John McAfee, a pioneer in computer security who lives in Belize, where he is a ''person of interest'' in the November murder of a neighbor, Gregory Faull, 52, whose body was removed by the authorities, center. At bottom is Mr. McAfee's home, which is on a pristine beach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE SAN PEDRO SUN VIA REUTERS
ABOVE, JULES VAZQUEZ/7NEWS, VIA AGENCE-FRANCE PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
HENRY ROMERO/REUTERS) (BU1)
San Pedro has an eastern shore lined with beaches, midmarket hotels and bars. It is now the center of an international media storm over the whereabouts of John McAfee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY ROMERO/REUTERS)
The American businessman Gregory Faull, top. His body was found at his home in Belize, above, on Nov. 11. Mr. Faull had complained to the town council about commotion at John McAfee's home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAN PEDRO SUN, VIA REUTERS) (BU6)
John McAfree, at top, with a motorized ultralight at the Southwest Aerotrekking Academy in New Mexico, which he founded and then sold after the economic downturn. Above is the police station in San Pedro, Belize. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HENRY ROMERO/REUTERS) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (75%); MURDER (74%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ARRESTS (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); PODCASTING (64%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) BELIZE (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012



55 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: Chekhov Melancholy, Never So Welcome

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
A SOUND rises from the throat of a terminally ill woman in the second act of Chekhov's ''Ivanov,'' and it is the noise of life itself. You can hear it rendered, with nuanced form and contradictory content, by Joely Richardson in the Classic Stage Company's current revival of this early play by Anton Chekhov, one of a multitude of productions of his work that opened in New York and London this year.
Ms. Richardson portrays the neglected, tubercular wife of the egomaniacal title character (played by Ethan Hawke). She's talking about the possibility of their being happy together again, but her speech keeps wandering into near-nonsense and disconnected scraps of memory.
And suddenly there's that sound, which cannot be classified by a single word. You see, it's a laugh, a sob and a cough all at once; it's a muddle of joy and sorrow and stumbling self-awareness, shadowed by a premonition of the death that is always waiting. As I said, it's life itself, something as common and finite as it is precious and inexhaustible. Think about it hard enough, and you can laugh until you cry or cry until you laugh. 
That's the music of Chekhov, which is as precise and as ineffable as that of all great composers. Neither cheering nor mellifluous in its depiction of shrinking aspirations and missed connections among Russian provincials, it is not what you'd call easy-listening music. Yet we seem to have a bottomless hunger for it these days.
I can't remember a year in the theater as crowded with productions of Chekhov's chronicles of lonely lives as 2012 has been. Between May and August three utterly different interpretations of ''Uncle Vanya'' were staged in New York. Two other versions of the same play recently opened in London, along with a new ''Seagull,'' relocated on the Isle of Man, and a ''Three Sisters'' set in contemporary Russia.
The experimental Target Margin Theater in New York produced a Chekhov-inspired season under the rubric ''After Anton.'' And last month the city saw not only the Classic Stage Company's ''Ivanov'' but also Lincoln Center Theater's ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,'' a comic gloss on Chekhovian despair by the satirist Christopher Durang; a European circus-style exercise in whimsy, ''Donka: A Letter to Chekhov,'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music; and a panel discussion of young theater artists at the New Museum titled ''My Chekhov, Not Yours.''
Some of the shows, including several of those discussed at the New Museum, promise to be antic riffs, a kind of sassy back talk to a venerated Russian doctor and writer who, before dying in 1904 at 44, managed to redefine the nature of theater with a mere five plays. (Among the more out-there variations on the roster in New York next year: Kristen Kosmas's ''There There,'' which imagines a proofreader, played by Ms. Kosmas, substituting for the actor Christopher Walken in a one-man version of ''Three Sisters.'')
But more often the guiding spirit seems to be a desire to get as close as possible to Chekhov, to crawl under the skin and feel the nerves. Never mind that his language is incomprehensible unless you speak Russian. There's something about the clarity in Chekhov's ambiguity -- his quiet insistence that life is comic and tragic at once in a world without heroes or villains -- that is making today's artists identify with him with a new, illuminating fierceness.
''Disappointment, apathy, frayed nerves and weariness are the inevitable consequences of excessive excitability,'' Chekhov wrote in a letter in 1888, ''and this excitability is to a great degree characteristic of your young people.'' You can understand an affinity by young writers today for characters who have the energy of youth and no means of channeling it. Chekhov may resonate most piercingly in an era of transition, when ideologies are in flux and the notion of a secure family home is under siege. (Think of how much in Chekhov's plays concern embattled real estate.)
The idleness of unemployment; the sense that the old forms of expression are outmoded (but no consoling sense of new forms to come); the friction that comes from generations of families being crowded together, by necessity, under one roof; a distrust of ready-made ideologies: These are all as characteristic of our own time as they were of Chekhov's provincial pre-revolutionary Russia.
In the past year at least two young dramatists added their names to the illustrious list of English-speaking playwrights (including Tom Stoppard, Michael Frayn and David Mamet) who have provided personal translations of Chekhov plays. The 31-year-old Annie Baker's ''Uncle Vanya,'' which was staged in New York at Walkerspace last summer, strove to establish a contemporary colloquial ease. The British wunderkind Anya Reiss, 21, brought ''The Seagull'' into the land of laptops and cellphones at the Southwark Playhouse in London, while sticking as near as anachronisms permitted to the original text. (Target Margin's less naturalistic production of ''Vanya,'' directed by David Herskovits, was in part a meditation on the obstacles of grasping Chekhov in English, a struggle that appropriately came to reflect the play's characters' often futile attempts to communicate.)
Of course it's not as if Chekhov has ever been absent from English-speaking stages since the early 20th century; on the contrary, he has been nearly as abiding a part of the Western repertory as Shakespeare. In 1995 I marveled in The New York Times that Chekhov's plays were regularly ''being taken apart and reassembled like Lincoln Log houses in a kindergarten,'' by avant-garde artists who included Anne Bogart and the Wooster Group.
Such productions were, by and large, distancing intellectual exercises, suitable to an age when deconstruction had yet to become a dirty word. More earnest, straightforward (and often star-studded) presentations of Chekhov that showed up in the succeeding years often felt almost as alienating, though for the different reason that the performers seemed to have arrived from clashing schools of acting.
Desperately updated versions -- a ''Seagull'' set in the Hamptons or the Gullah Islands of South Carolina -- simply registered as strained. Such liberties were routinely being taken with Shakespeare too, of course. But Chekhov's plays -- though in my opinion the greatest since Shakespeare (and before Beckett) in their balancing of life's contradictions -- are less able to withstand the assaults of bad or misguided acting.
With Shakespeare the poetry can rise above the clutter of all manner of conceptual layering. (As the great acting teacher Stella Adler noted: ''You don't have to be intelligent in Shakespeare. He's a giant, so he carries you -- if you speak ever so precisely and have lots of good teeth.'') Chekhov, no matter how adept the translation, needs to exist in a specifically felt present in which all the performers share. And when I reviewed Chekhov productions, my formula became singling out one or two performances that worked for me, but usually didn't jibe with any of the others.
I had pretty much concluded, in a fitting mood of Chekhovian resignation, that my richest experiences of him would be limited to quiet tête-à-têtes with Anton on the page. The possibility of there being in my lifetime a fully staged ''Seagull'' or ''Three Sisters'' that effortlessly integrated comedy and tragedy (and vice versa) felt about as remote as those sisters ever making it to Moscow.
Apparently the gods are more generous to 21st-century theatergoers than Chekhov is to his characters. I can happily attest that within the past decade I have seen at least two thoroughly absorbing productions of ''The Cherry Orchard'' (at the Williamstown Theater Festival and the Classic Stage Company) and a creditable ''Three Sisters'' (also at Classic Stage).
And I have had the luxury of experiencing two productions that have become my gold standard for acting Chekhov: the 2007 ''Seagull'' at the Royal Court Theater in London (on Broadway in 2008), directed by Ian Rickson and starring Kristin Scott-Thomas and Carey Mulligan; and the Sydney Theater Company's ''Uncle Vanya'' (in New York at City Center last summer), directed by Tamas Ascher and starring Cate Blanchett, Hugo Weaving and Richard Roxburgh.
These were interpretations that, while obviously the product of great forethought and meticulous staging, felt startlingly spontaneous and also as confusing, in their welter of emotions, as everyday existence often is. And while the actors gave form to the eccentricities that Chekhov's characters wear like armor, they did so without the farcical exaggeration that turns people into cartoons.
''Caricatures are more pointed and therefore more comprehensible,'' Chekhov wrote when ''Ivanov'' was first being produced, ''but it's better to leave out a few strokes than to overdo it.'' What Mr. Ascher's and Mr. Rickson's productions caught so well is the sense that farce is natural to life; it arises from our everyday awkwardness and the sad fact that even the most eloquent can seldom say what they mean.
The actor Reed Birney, who appeared in Ms. Baker's acclaimed adaptation of ''Uncle Vanya'' last summer, spoke tellingly of what the director, Sam Gold, told his cast he wanted to achieve: ''Chekhov is never more thrilling than sitting in your living room reading it aloud. But when it goes to performance, it somehow loses that. So how can we recreate the experience of people just living the play?''
The problem for any interpreters of Chekhov is that ''just living the play'' is perhaps hardest when a play is closest to real life. In presenting human existence as a study in atrophy and humiliating defeat (there is never much dignity in Chekhov), he cuts so close to the bone that performers may instinctively try to distance themselves from their characters through actorly exaggeration.
Close to the bone is not a comfortable place to be. And there's an abiding impression that Chekhov is somber stuff. ''I've found more clouds of gray/Than any Russian play could guarantee,'' goes the Ira Gershwin lyric. Certainly that's the sensibility that Mr. Durang is having fun with -- and ultimately exorcising -- in ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,'' a comedy in which 21st-century grown-ups finally put aside their adolescent attraction to romantic, Russian-style depression.
That attraction, I'll admit, was strong when I was a teenager, given to grandly quoting Masha's self-pitying declaration from ''The Seagull'': ''I'm in mourning for my life.'' But watching well-presented Chekhov in recent years I have usually left the theater feeling anything but suicidal.
There's exhilaration whenever an artist achieves the kind of clarity of vision that Chekhov does, when you look up at a stage and see a brighter mirror than you've ever found on a wall. That's life, indeed. The pulse quickens in recognition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ethan Hawke as the title character in ''Ivanov,'' a revival from the Classic Stage Company. (AR1)
Three ''Uncle Vanyas'': top left, by Target Margin Theater
right, Maria Dizzia and Michael Shannon in another
 left, Cate Blanchett and Richard Roxburgh, with Sydney Theater Company. Below, David Hyde Pierce, Kristine Nielsen and Sigourney Weaver in ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); MUSIC (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC GENRES (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%)

PERSON: CATE BLANCHETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISLE OF MAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012



56 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3422 words

HEADLINE: 100 Notable Books of 2012

 BODY:
The year's notable fiction, poetry and nonfiction, selected by the editors of The New York Times Book Review.
FICTION & POETRY
ALIF THE UNSEEN. By G. Willow Wilson. (Grove, $25.) A young hacker on the run in the Mideast is the protagonist of this imaginative first novel.
ALMOST NEVER. By Daniel Sada. Translated by Katherine Silver. (Graywolf, paper, $16.) In this glorious satire of machismo, a Mexican agronomist simultaneously pursues a prostitute and an upright woman.
AN AMERICAN SPY. By Olen Steinhauer. (Minotaur, $25.99.) In a novel vividly evoking the multilayered world of espionage, Steinhauer's hero fights back when his C.I.A. unit is nearly destroyed. 
ARCADIA. By Lauren Groff. (Voice/Hyperion, $25.99.) Groff's lush and visual second novel begins at a rural commune, and links that utopian past to a dystopian, post-global-warming future.
AT LAST. By Edward St. Aubyn. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) The final and most meditative of St. Aubyn's brilliant Patrick Melrose novels is full of precise observations and glistening turns of phrase.
BEAUTIFUL RUINS. By Jess Walter. (Harper/HarperCollins, $25.99.) Walter's witty sixth novel, set largely in Hollywood, reveals an American landscape of vice, addiction, loss and disappointed hopes.
BILLY LYNN'S LONG HALFTIME WALK. By Ben Fountain. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.99.) The survivors of a fierce firefight in Iraq are whisked stateside for a brief victory tour in this satirical novel.
BLASPHEMY. By Sherman Alexie. (Grove, $27.) The best stories in Alexie's collection of new and selected works are moving and funny, bringing together the embittered critic and the yearning dreamer.
THE BOOK OF MISCHIEF: New and Selected Stories. By Steve Stern. (Graywolf, $26.) Jewish immigrant lives observed with effusive nostalgia.
BRING UP THE BODIES. By Hilary Mantel. (Macrae/Holt, $28.) Mantel's sequel to ''Wolf Hall'' traces the fall of Anne Boleyn, and makes the familiar story fascinating and suspenseful again.
BUILDING STORIES. By Chris Ware. (Pantheon, $50.) A big, sturdy box containing hard-bound volumes, pamphlets and a tabloid houses Ware's demanding, melancholy and magnificent graphic novel about the inhabitants of a Chicago building.
BY BLOOD. By Ellen Ullman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) This smart, slippery novel is a narrative striptease, as a professor listens in on the sessions between the therapist next door and her patients.
CANADA. By Richard Ford. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.99.) A boy whose parents rob a bank in North Dakota in 1960 takes refuge across the border in this mesmerizing novel, driven by fully realized characters and an accomplished prose style.
CARRY THE ONE. By Carol Anshaw. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) Anshaw pays close attention to the lives of a group of friends bound together by a fatal accident in this wry, humane novel, her fourth.
CITY OF BOHANE. By Kevin Barry. (Graywolf, $25.) Somewhere in Ireland in 2053, people are haunted by a ''lost time,'' when something calamitous happened, and hope to reclaim the past. Barry's extraordinary, exuberant first novel is full of inventive language.
COLLECTED POEMS. By Jack Gilbert. (Knopf, $35.) In orderly free verse constructions, Gilbert deals plainly with grief, love, marriage, betrayal and lust.
DEAR LIFE: Stories. By Alice Munro. (Knopf, $26.95.) This volume offers further proof of Munro's mastery, and shows her striking out in the direction of a new, late style that sums up her whole career.
THE DEVIL IN SILVER. By Victor LaValle. (Spiegel & Grau, $27.) LaValle's culturally observant third novel is set in a shabby urban mental hospital.
ENCHANTMENTS. By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $27.) Harrison's splendid and surprising novel of late imperial Russia centers on Rasputin's daughter Masha and the hemophiliac czarevitch Alyosha.
FLIGHT BEHAVIOR. By Barbara Kingsolver. (Harper/HarperCollins, $28.99.) An Appalachian woman becomes involved in an effort to save monarch butterflies in this brave and majestic novel.
FOBBIT. By David Abrams. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic, paper, $15.) Clerks, cooks and lawyers at a forward operating base in Iraq populate this first novel.
THE FORGETTING TREE. By Tatjana Soli. (St. Martin's, $25.99.) In Soli's haunting second novel, a mysterious Caribbean woman cares for a cancer patient on an isolated California ranch.
GATHERING OF WATERS. By Bernice L. McFadden. (Akashic, $24.95.) Three generations of black women confront floods and murder in Mississippi.
GODS WITHOUT MEN. By Hari Kunzru. (Knopf, $26.95.) Related stories, spanning centuries and continents, and all tethered to a desert rock formation, emphasize interconnectivity across time and space in Kunzru's relentlessly modern fourth novel.
HHhH. By Laurent Binet. Translated by Sam Taylor. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) This gripping novel examines both the killing of an SS general in Prague in 1942 and Binet's experience in writing about it.
A HOLOGRAM FOR THE KING. By Dave Eggers. (McSweeney's, $25.) Eggers's novel is a haunting and supremely readable parable of America in the global economy, a nostalgic lament for a time when life had stakes and people worked with their hands.
HOME. By Toni Morrison. (Knopf, $24.) A black Korean War veteran, discharged from an integrated Army into a segregated homeland, makes a reluctant journey back to Georgia in a novel engaged with themes that have long haunted Morrison.
HOPE: A TRAGEDY. By Shalom Auslander. (Riverhead, $26.95.) Hilarity alternates with pain in this novel about a Jewish man seeking peace in upstate New York who discovers Anne Frank in his attic.
HOW SHOULD A PERSON BE? By Sheila Heti. (Holt, $25.) The narrator (also named Sheila) and her friends try to answer the question in this novel's title.
IN ONE PERSON. By John Irving. (Simon & Schuster, $28.) Irving's funny, risky new novel about an aspiring writer struggling with his sexuality examines what happens when we face our desires honestly.
A LAND MORE KIND THAN HOME. By Wiley Cash. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $24.99.) An evil pastor dominates Cash's mesmerizing first novel.
MARRIED LOVE: And Other Stories. By Tessa Hadley. (Harper Perennial, paper, $14.99.) Hadley's understatedly beautiful collection is filled with exquisitely calibrated gradations and expressions of class.
NW. By Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $26.95.) The lives of two friends who grew up in a northwest London housing project diverge, illuminating questions of race, class, sexual identity and personal choice, in Smith's energetic modernist novel.
ON THE SPECTRUM OF POSSIBLE DEATHS. By Lucia Perillo. (Copper Canyon, $22.) Taut, lucid poems filled with complex emotional reflection.
PURE. By Julianna Baggott. (Grand Central, $25.99.) Children battle for the planet's redemption in this precisely written postapocalyptic adventure story.
THE RIGHT-HAND SHORE. By Christopher Tilghman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) A dark, magisterial novel set on a Chesapeake Bay estate.
THE ROUND HOUSE. By Louise Erdrich. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) In this novel, an American Indian family faces the ramifications of a vicious crime.
SALVAGE THE BONES. By Jesmyn Ward. (Bloomsbury, $24.) A pregnant 15-year-old and her family await Hurricane Katrina in this lushly written novel.
SAN MIGUEL. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $27.95.) Two utopians from different eras establish private idylls on California's desolate Channel Islands; this novel preserves their tantalizing dreams.
SHINE SHINE SHINE. By Lydia Netzer. (St. Martin's, $24.99.) This thought-provoking debut novel presents a geeky astronaut and his pregnant wife.
SHOUT HER LOVELY NAME. By Natalie Serber. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $24.) The stories in Serber's first collection are smart and nuanced.
SILENT HOUSE. By Orhan Pamuk. Translated by Robert Finn. (Knopf, $26.95.) A family is a microcosm of a country on the verge of a coup in this intense, foreboding novel, first published in Turkey in 1983.
THE STARBOARD SEA. By Amber Dermont. (St. Martin's, $24.99.) Dermont's captivating debut novel, whose narrator is a boarding school student and a sailor, takes pleasure in the sea and in the exhilarating freedom of being young.
SWEET TOOTH. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.95.) The true subject of this smart and tricky novel, set inside a cold war espionage operation, is the border between make-believe and reality.
SWIMMING HOME. By Deborah Levy. (Bloomsbury, paper, $14.) In this spare, disturbing and frequently funny novel, a troubled young woman tests the marriages of two couples.
TELEGRAPH AVENUE. By Michael Chabon. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Chabon's rich comic novel about fathers and sons in Berkeley and Oakland, Calif., juggles multiple plots and mounds of pop culture references in astonishing prose.
THE TESTAMENT OF MARY. By Colm Toibin. (Scribner, $19.99.) This beautiful work takes power from the surprises of its language and its almost shocking characterization of Mary, mother of Jesus.
THIS IS HOW YOU LOSE HER. By Junot Díaz. (Riverhead, $26.95.) The stories in this collection are about love, but they're also about the undertow of family history and cultural mores, presented in Díaz's exciting, irresistible and entertaining prose.
THREE STRONG WOMEN. By Marie NDiaye. Translated by John Fletcher. (Knopf, $25.95.) In loosely linked narratives, three women from Senegal struggle with fathers and husbands in France. This subtle, hypnotic novel won the Prix Goncourt in 2009.
TOBY'S ROOM. By Pat Barker. (Doubleday, $25.95.) This novel, a sequel to ''Life Class,'' delves further into the lives of an English family torn apart by World War I.
WATERGATE. By Thomas Mallon. (Pantheon, $26.95.) This novelistic reimagining of the ''third-rate burglary'' proposes surprising motives for the break-in and the 18-minute gap, and has a sympathetic Nixon.
WHAT WE TALK ABOUT WHEN WE TALK ABOUT ANNE FRANK: Stories. By Nathan Englander. (Knopf, $24.95.) Englander tackles large questions of morality and history in a masterly collection that manages to be both insightful and uproarious.
THE YELLOW BIRDS. By Kevin Powers. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) A young private and his platoon struggle through the war in Iraq but find no peace at home in this powerful and moving first novel about the frailty of man and the brutality of war.
NONFICTION
ALL WE KNOW: Three Lives. By Lisa Cohen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) The vanished world of midcentury upper-class lesbians is portrayed as beguiling, its inhabitants members of a stylish club.
AMERICAN TAPESTRY: The Story of the Black, White, and Multiracial Ancestors of Michelle Obama. By Rachel L. Swarns. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $27.99.) A Times reporter's deeply researched chronicle of several generations of Mrs. Obama's family.
AMERICAN TRIUMVIRATE: Sam Snead, Byron Nelson, Ben Hogan, and the Modern Age of Golf. By James Dodson. (Knopf, $28.95.) The author evokes an era when the game was more vivid and less corporate than it seems now.
ARE YOU MY MOTHER? A Comic Drama. By Alison Bechdel. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $22.) Bechdel's engaging, original graphic memoir explores her troubled relationship with her distant mother.
BARACK OBAMA: The Story. By David Maraniss. (Simon & Schuster, $32.50.) This huge and absorbing new biography, full of previously unexplored detail, shows that Obama's saga is more surprising and gripping than the version we're familiar with.
BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS: Life, Death, and Hope in a Mumbai Undercity. By Katherine Boo. (Random House, $27.) This extraordinary moral inquiry into life in an Indian slum shows the human costs exacted by a brutal social Darwinism.
BELZONI: The Giant Archaeologists Love to Hate. By Ivor Noël Hume. (University of Virginia, $34.95.) The fascinating tale of the 19th-century Italian monk, a ''notorious tomb robber,'' who gathered archaeological treasures in Egypt while crunching bones underfoot.
THE BLACK COUNT: Glory, Revolution, Betrayal, and the Real Count of Monte Cristo. By Tom Reiss. (Crown, $27.) The first Alexandre Dumas, a mixed-race general of the French Revolution, is the subject of this imaginative biography.
BREASTS: A Natural and Unnatural History. By Florence Williams. (Norton, $25.95.) Williams's environmental call to arms deplores chemicals in breast milk and the vogue for silicone implants.
COMING APART: The State of White America, 1960-2010. By Charles Murray. (Crown Forum, $27.) The author of ''The Bell Curve'' warns that the white working class has abandoned the ''founding virtues.''
DARWIN'S GHOSTS: The Secret History of Evolution. By Rebecca Stott. (Spiegel & Grau, $27.) Stott's lively, original history of evolutionary ideas flows easily across continents and centuries.
A DISPOSITION TO BE RICH: How a Small-Town Preacher's Son Ruined an American President, Brought on a Wall Street Crash, and Made Himself the Best-Hated Man in the United States. By Geoffrey C. Ward. (Knopf, $28.95.) The author's ancestor was the bane of Ulysses S. Grant.
FAR FROM THE TREE: Parents, Children, and the Search for Identity. By Andrew Solomon. (Scribner, $37.50.) This passionate and affecting work about what it means to be a parent is based on interviews with families of ''exceptional'' children.
FLAGRANT CONDUCT. The Story of Lawrence v. Texas: How a Bedroom Arrest Decriminalized Gay Americans. By Dale Carpenter. (Norton, $29.95.) Carpenter stirringly describes the 2003 Supreme Court decision that overturned the Texas sodomy law.
THE FOLLY OF FOOLS: The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life. By Robert Trivers. (Basic Books, $28.) An intriguing argument that deceit is a beneficial evolutionary ''deep feature'' of life.
THE GREY ALBUM: On the Blackness of Blackness. By Kevin Young. (Graywolf, paper, $25.) A poet's lively account of the central place of the trickster figure in black American culture could have been called ''How Blacks Invented America.''
HAITI: The Aftershocks of History. By Laurent Dubois. (Metropolitan/Holt, $32.) Foreign meddling, the lack of a democratic tradition, a humiliating American occupation and cold-war support of a brutal dictator all figure in a scholar's well-written analysis.
HOW CHILDREN SUCCEED: Grit, Curiosity, and the Hidden Power of Character. By Paul Tough. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) Noncognitive skills like persistence and self-control are more crucial to success than sheer brainpower, Tough maintains.
HOW MUSIC WORKS. By David Byrne. (McSweeney's, $32.) This guidebook also explores the eccentric rock star's personal and professional experience.
IRON CURTAIN: The Crushing of Eastern Europe, 1944-1956. By Anne Applebaum. (Doubleday, $35.) An overwhelming and convincing account of the Soviet push to colonize Eastern Europe after World War II.
KAYAK MORNING: Reflections on Love, Grief, and Small Boats. By Roger Rosenblatt. (Ecco/HarperCollins, paper, $13.99.) This thoughtful meditation on the evolution of grief over time asks the big questions.
LINCOLN'S CODE: The Laws of War in American History. By John Fabian Witt. (Free Press, $32.) A tension between humanitarianism and righteousness has shaped America's rules of warfare.
LITTLE AMERICA: The War Within the War for Afghanistan. By Rajiv Chandrasekaran. (Knopf, $27.95.) A beautifully written and deeply reported account of America's troubled involvement in Afghanistan.
MEMOIR OF A DEBULKED WOMAN: Enduring Ovarian Cancer. By Susan Gubar. (Norton, $24.95.) A feminist scholar recounts her experience and criticizes the medical treatment of a frightening disease in a voice that is straightforward and incredibly brave.
MY POETS. By Maureen N. McLane. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) Part memoir and part criticism, this friendly book includes essays on poets canonical and contemporary, as well as lineated poem-games.
THE OBAMAS. By Jodi Kantor. (Little, Brown, $29.99.) Michelle Obama sets the tone and tempo of the current White House, Kantor argues in this admiring account, full of colorful insider anecdotes.
ODDLY NORMAL: One Family's Struggle to Help Their Teenage Son Come to Terms With His Sexuality. By John Schwartz. (Gotham, $26.) A Times reporter's deeply affecting account of his son's coming out also reviews research on the experience of LGBT kids.
ON A FARTHER SHORE: The Life and Legacy of Rachel Carson. By William Souder. (Crown, $30.) An absorbing biography of the pioneering environmental writer on the 50th anniversary of ''Silent Spring.''
ON SAUDI ARABIA: Its People, Past, Religion, Fault Lines -- and Future. By Karen Elliott House. (Knopf, $28.95.) A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist unveils this inscrutable country, comparing its calcified regime to the Soviet Union in its final days.
THE ONE: The Life and Music of James Brown. By RJ Smith. (Gotham, $27.50.) Smith argues that Brown was the most significant modern American musician in terms of style, messaging, rhythm and originality.
THE PASSAGE OF POWER: The Years of Lyndon Johnson. By Robert A. Caro. (Knopf, $35.) The fourth volume of Caro's magisterial work spans the five years that end shortly after Kennedy's assassination, as Johnson prepares to push for a civil rights act.
THE PATRIARCH: The Remarkable Life and Turbulent Times of Joseph P. Kennedy. By David Nasaw. (Penguin Press, $40.) This riveting history captures the sweep of Kennedy's life -- as Wall Street speculator, moviemaker, ambassador and dynastic founder.
PEOPLE WHO EAT DARKNESS: The True Story of a Young Woman Who Vanished From the Streets of Tokyo -- and the Evil That Swallowed Her Up. By Richard Lloyd Parry. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, paper, $16.) An evenhanded investigation of a murder.
RED BRICK, BLACK MOUNTAIN, WHITE CLAY: Reflections on Art, Family, and Survival. By Christopher Benfey. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) Mixing memoir, family saga, travelogue and cultural history.
RULE AND RUIN. The Downfall of Moderation and the Destruction of the Republican Party: From Eisenhower to the Tea Party. By Geoffrey Kabaservice. (Oxford University, $29.95.) Pragmatic Republicanism was hardier than we remember, Kabaservice argues.
SAUL STEINBERG: A Biography. By Deirdre Bair. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $40.) A gripping and revelatory biography of the eminent cartoonist.
SHOOTING VICTORIA: Madness, Mayhem, and the Rebirth of the British Monarchy. By Paul Thomas Murphy. (Pegasus, $35.) An uninhibited and learned account of the attempts on the life of Queen Victoria, which only increased her popularity.
SHORT NIGHTS OF THE SHADOW CATCHER: The Epic Life and Immortal Photographs of Edward Curtis. By Timothy Egan. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $28.) A deft portrait of the man who made memorable photographs of American Indians.
THE SOCIAL CONQUEST OF EARTH. By Edward O. Wilson. (Norton, $27.95.) The evolutionary biologist explores the strange kinship between humans and some insects.
SOMETIMES THERE IS A VOID: Memoirs of an Outsider. By Zakes Mda. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) The South African novelist and playwright absorbingly illuminates his wide, worldly life.
SPILLOVER: Animal Infections and the Next Human Pandemic. By David Quammen. (Norton, $28.95.) Quammen's meaty, sprawling book chronicles his globe-trotting scientific adventures and warns against animal microbes spilling over into people.
THE TASTE OF WAR: World War II and the Battle for Food. By Lizzie Collingham. (Penguin Press, $36.) Collingham argues that food needs contributed to the war's origins, strategy, outcome and aftermath.
THOMAS JEFFERSON: The Art of Power. By Jon Meacham. (Random House, $35.) This readable and well-researched life celebrates Jefferson's skills as a practical politician, unafraid to wield power even when it conflicted with his small-government views.
VICTORY: The Triumphant Gay Revolution. By Linda Hirshman. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Written with knowing finesse, this expansive history of gay rights from the early 20th century to the present draws on archives and interviews.
WHEN GOD TALKS BACK: Understanding the American Evangelical Relationship With God. By T. M. Luhrmann. (Knopf, $28.95.) Evangelicals believe that God speaks to them personally because they hone the skill of prayer, this insightful study argues.
WHY BE HAPPY WHEN YOU COULD BE NORMAL? By Jeanette Winterson. (Grove, $25.) Winterson's unconventional and winning memoir wrings humor from adversity as it describes her upbringing by a wildly deranged mother.
WHY DOES THE WORLD EXIST? An Existential Detective Story. By Jim Holt. (Liveright/Norton, $27.95.) An elegant and witty writer converses with philosophers and cosmologists who ponder why there is something rather than nothing.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JULIA ROTHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (89%); POETRY (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); ESPIONAGE (70%); RELIGION (64%); IMMIGRATION (62%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (78%); MIDDLE EAST (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2012



57 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: The Enduring Allure of Boy Bands

BYLINE: By MAURA JOHNSTON. 
A writer and editor who teaches at New York University's Clive Davis Institute of Recorded Music.

 BODY:
ON Monday night, Madison Square Garden will be commandeered by five young men from across the Atlantic and their fervent faithful. The old Borders bookstore in Penn Plaza has been temporarily made over in their image; people referring to themselves as ''Directioners'' are likely to be dawdling around Penn Station now, hoping for a moment when they can dash upstairs and see their idols in full thrall.
At a time when the music business is casting about for answers, the five young men at the center of this maelstrom -- Niall Horan, Zayn Malik, Liam Payne, Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson -- make up the British pop group One Direction, one of 2012's legitimate music successes. One Direction is the latest example of the boy band -- a collection of young males of assorted vocal timbres and hairstyles whose music inspires hosannas and hashtags among young women (and men) blown away by their combined package of hokey pop, different personas and crushworthy looks. 
One Direction operates in the tradition of fresh-faced, spit-shined outfits like the Beatles, New Kids on the Block, and 'N Sync. Simon Cowell and the flagship edition of his talent search show ''The X Factor'' created the band, which topped the album charts here after grabbing the teen-idol baton from Justin Bieber, the onetime Canadian YouTube sensation who rubbed elbows with the R&B singer Usher. Mr. Bieber was preceded in the relay race by the Jonas Brothers, the floppy-haired threesome elevated by the Disney Channel.
The economy of teen idols churns along at an almost brutal pace; that tickets for One Direction's summer 2013 tour went on sale all the way back in April seems like the ever-shrewd Mr. Cowell's way of hedging a bet. (The Jonas Brothers played a Radio City Music Hall reunion show in October -- only two years after starring in the Disney Channel's ''Camp Rock 2.'') But that shelf life might be accelerated by the disdain teen idols attract from all corners. They inspire a familiar litany of complaints: they're ''manufactured''; they skate by on looks, not talent; their music is annoying.
Many of these complaints come from people who consider themselves fans of ''authentic'' music, even though those Real Artists often share the same marketing apparatus as those groups they disdain. Dig deeper in the criticisms and you'll find that the music isn't being assessed as much as the groups' target audience; music that has a bright pop appeal is tagged with sobriquets like ''bubblegum,'' ''saccharine'' or ''fake.'' The examples of the Beatles (who caused mass fainting before becoming enshrined in the classic-rock canon) and Justin Timberlake (who reeled off the astonishingly adult ''FutureSex/LoveSounds'' after leaving 'N Sync) are conveniently forgotten in favor of scoring cheap points.
But for young people trying to figure out the thorny world of sexuality, the boy band can serve as a sort of palette, a way to safely work out the boundaries of love and lust. Mr. Horan, Mr. Malik, Mr. Payne, Mr. Styles and Mr. Tomlinson have distinct personas -- the tattooed Mr. Malik is known as a ''Bradford bad boy'' to some, while Mr. Horan wears a perpetual grin -- but they share a rakish aesthetic that cross-pollinates Harry Potter and J. Crew. The group's music is bright pop-rock with a slight naughty bent, the five members' voices weaving in and out of one another's orbits before coming together on triumphant choruses; even the ballads have a regimented cheeriness about them.
The varying personalities of boy bands' members could be seen as a testing ground for attraction, and the resulting fantasies projected on the idols can be chaste or X-rated. You don't have to search for long to find virtual reams of fan fiction devoted to teen idols getting into Cinemax-appropriate high jinks.
When I saw the group at a Beacon Theater matinee last spring, the screaming stopped once women showed up in the between-song video montages. Introducing competition into the mix blew apart the dreamworld for a brief yet too-long moment. That the room recovered in time for a run-through of the group's self-esteem-boosting hit ''What Makes You Beautiful'' wasn't too surprising -- earnest compliments will smooth over lots of slights -- but perhaps the boys (and Mr. Cowell) will have learned from this misstep in time for Monday night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The band One Direction, seen last month on NBC's ''Today'' show, will be in New York Monday night, a major moment for their teenage fans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); MUSIC (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (54%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); SIMON COWELL (56%); JOE JONAS (55%); NICK JONAS (55%); KEVIN JONAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



58 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Alarm as China Issues Rules for Disputed Area

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed reporting from Haikou, and Elisabeth Bumiller from Washington.

 BODY:
HAIKOU, China -- New rules announced by a Chinese province last week to allow interceptions of ships in the South China Sea are raising concerns in the region, and in Washington, that simmering disputes with Southeast Asian countries over the waters will escalate.
The move by Hainan Province, which administers China's South China Sea claims, is being seen by some outside analysts as another step in the country's bid to solidify its claims to much of the sea, which includes crucial international shipping lanes through which more than a third of global trade is carried.
As foreign governments scrambled for clarification of the rules, which appeared vague and open to interpretation, a top Chinese policy maker on matters related to the South China Sea tried to calm worries inspired by the announcement.
Wu Shicun, the director general of the foreign affairs office of Hainan Province, said Saturday that Chinese ships would be allowed to search and repel foreign ships only if they were engaged in illegal activities (though these were not defined) and only if the ships were within the 12-nautical-mile zone surrounding islands that China claims. 
The laws, passed by the provincial legislature, come less than a month after China named its new leader, Xi Jinping, and as the country remains embroiled in a serious dispute with Japan in the East China Sea over islands known in China as the Diaoyu and as the Senkaku in Japan.
The laws appear to have little to do with Mr. Xi directly, but they reinforce fears that China, now the owner of an aircraft carrier and a growing navy, is plowing ahead with plans to enforce its claims that it has sovereign rights over much of the sea, which includes dozens of islands that other countries say are theirs. And top Chinese officials have not yet clarified their intent, leaving room for speculation.
If China were to enforce these new rules fully beyond the 12-nautical-mile zones, naval experts say, at stake would be freedom of navigation, a principle that benefits not only the United States and other Western powers but also China, a big importer of Middle East oil.
An incomplete list of the laws passed in Hainan was announced by the state-run news agency, Xinhua, last week.
In an interview here on Saturday, Mr. Wu said the new regulations applied to all of the hundreds of islands scattered across the sea, and their surrounding waters. That includes islands claimed by several other countries, including Vietnam and the Philippines.
''It covers all the land features inside the nine-dash line and adjacent waters,'' Mr. Wu said. The nine-dash line refers to a map that China drew up in the late 1940s that demarcates its territorial claims -- about 80 percent of the South China Sea, whose seabed is believed to be rich in oil." href="http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/business/energy-environment/%3Cb%3Eoil%3C/b%3E-petroleum-and-gasoline/index.html?inline=nyt-classifier">oil and natural gas.
That map forms the basis for China's current claims. Some neighboring countries were outraged when China recently placed the nine-dash map on its new passports. Vietnam has refused to place its visa stamps in the passports as they are, insisting a separate piece of paper be added for the stamp.
Mr. Wu, who also heads a government-sponsored institute devoted to the study of the South China Sea, said the immediate intention of the new laws was to deal with what he called illegal Vietnamese fishing vessels that operate in the waters around Yongxing Island, where China recently established an expanded army garrison.
The island, which has a long airstrip, is part of a group known internationally as the Paracels that is also claimed by Vietnam. China is using Yongxing Island as a kind of forward presence in a bid for more control of the South China Sea, neighboring countries say.
The Chinese Foreign Ministry said last week that China was within its rights to allow the coast guard to board vessels in the South China Sea.
The new rules go into effect on Jan. 1. According to a report in an English-language state-run newspaper, China Daily, the police and coast guard will be allowed to board and seize control of foreign ships that ''illegally enter'' Chinese waters and order them to change course.
Mr. Wu acknowledged that the new rules had aroused alarm in Asia, and the United States, because they could be interpreted as a power grab by China.
''A big worry for neighboring countries and countries outside the region is that China is growing so rapidly, and they see it is possible China taking over the islands by force,'' he said. ''I think China needs to convince neighboring countries that this is not the case.'' Essentially, he said, countries had to trust that China would not use force in the sea.
The Philippines, an ally of the United States and one of the most vociferous critics of China's claims in the South China Sea, reacted strongly to the new rules.
In a statement, the Foreign Ministry in Manila said Saturday, ''This planned action by China is illegal and will validate the continuous and repeated pronouncements by the Philippines that China's claim of indisputable sovereignty over virtually the entire South China Sea is not only an excessive claim, but a threat to all countries.''
In order to dispel the dismay about the new rules, China needs to explain more, an American expert on the South China Sea, M. Taylor Fravel, said.
Mr. Fravel, an associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the United States and Asian nations might be overreacting to the legislation. ''It was not passed down by Beijing as far as I can tell,'' he said.
''The U.S. should seek to clarify with China the intent of the regulations and whether they will be used in and around disputed islands, a move that would clearly escalate tensions,'' Mr. Fravel said.
On Saturday the Obama administration, in an effort not to escalate the situation, only obliquely criticized the Chinese action. ''All concerned parties should avoid provocative unilateral actions that raise tensions and undermine the prospects for a diplomatic or other peaceful resolution,'' said Peter P. Velasco, a State Department spokesman.
At a summit meeting of Asian leaders last month in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, President Obama raised the issue of the South China Sea with Premier Wen Jiabao of China, senior administration officials said. Mr. Obama asked the Chinese to resolve disputes peacefully, and to allow freedom of navigation, they said.
But this quiet approach, encouraged by smaller Asian nations that are friendly with the United States but economically dependent on China, will no longer work, said Bonnie Glaser of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
''I don't see a strategy on the U.S. side,'' Ms. Glaser said.
She said China was confident that it could outmaneuver the 10 countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, which has unsuccessfully tried to find ways to resolve territorial disputes with China. ''In Asean, there is an unwillingness to confront China; they are hopelessly divided,'' she said.
Until now, some Asian countries had believed that China did not want to have simultaneous conflicts on two maritime fronts: in the East China Sea with Japan and the South China Sea with other countries. With the passage of the new laws in Hainan, that assumption has now proved incorrect, Ms. Glaser said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fishing boats off Vietnam's coast in the South China Sea. One Chinese official said the new rules applied to disputed islands, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHAM/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); HAINAN, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



59 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Aide to Obama Faces a Big Test In Fiscal Talks

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama was locked in painful spending negotiations with House Republicans last spring, his exceedingly meticulous budget director, Jacob J. Lew, went to the Oval Office to propose some complex budget changes. As Mr. Lew delved deeper and deeper into the numbers, Mr. Obama put up his hand, signaling him to stop.
''Jack, it's fine,'' the president said, according to Gene Sperling, Mr. Obama's economics adviser, who witnessed the exchange. ''I trust your values. I trust your judgment on this.''
Today Mr. Lew is the White House chief of staff (and on the shortlist to become the next Treasury secretary), and Mr. Obama has entrusted him with an even bigger task: guiding the White House through potentially treacherous negotiations with Congressional Republicans to avert automatic tax increases and spending cuts on Jan. 1, which economists warn could throw the country back into recession. 
An agreement by year's end could lead to a long-term deficit reduction plan, helping Mr. Obama live up to his promise to bring both parties together and sealing Mr. Lew's reputation as the master of the Washington budget deal. But if the talks fail, Mr. Obama might be remembered as the president who could not break partisan gridlock in Washington, and Mr. Lew could wind up with a blot on his nearly impeccable record.
''This is a reset moment for the administration and for Jack,'' said Tom Daschle, a former Senate Democratic leader. ''It's a window that will close in a few weeks, but it really is an opportunity to start over. Part of the message of the election was 'You guys have got to work together.' ''
But Mr. Lew's last go-round with Republicans, the debt ceiling talks in the summer of 2011, ended uncharacteristically badly. Mr. Lew, still the budget director at the time, irked Speaker John A. Boehner and his staff, who viewed him as an uncompromising know-it-all. Mr. Lew's defenders call it an aberration.
''I think it's because Jack knows the numbers, and they couldn't pull a fast one,'' said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's chief political adviser.
This time, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is the lead negotiator; as the chief of staff, administration officials say, Mr. Lew can no longer spend long hours away from the White House. Instead, he is overseeing the talks and plotting strategy from his West Wing office, where a painting of Abraham Lincoln hangs over the fireplace and a tiny ceramic replica of Ellis Island -- a nod to his father, who immigrated from Poland -- sits on his orderly wooden desk.
So far, there has been little progress. On Friday, Mr. Boehner declared the talks ''at a stalemate,'' while Mr. Obama hit the road to sell his plan to raise taxes on income over $250,000. Earlier in the week, Mr. Obama met with business leaders, as did Mr. Lew, who declined to comment for this article.
At 57, Mr. Lew may be the most unassuming power broker in Washington. He is deeply religious (an Orthodox Jew, he leaves work each Friday before sundown) and is so strait-laced that his colleagues feel compelled to apologize when they curse in front of him. He brings his own lunch (a cheese sandwich and an apple) and eats at his desk.
With his owlish glasses and low-key manner, Mr. Lew may come off as just a policy nerd. But he is a fierce negotiator. When defending social safety net programs, particularly those like Medicaid that help the poor, he morphs into a warrior, Republicans say, though he has proved willing to make concessions.
''Jack is tough,'' said Jim Dyer, a Republican and a former Capitol Hill aide who negotiated budget issues with Mr. Lew in the 1990s. ''He can be argumentative, he's smart as hell, he's very political, he is a true liberal, he is loyal to his superiors, and he has a good grasp of budgetary and policy issues.''
''Fighting with him is exhausting,'' Mr. Dyer added. ''We yelled at each other a lot. We never came to blows. We walked away from the table perhaps happy to be away from each other for a while, but perhaps equally happy that we preserved a modicum of what each side wanted.''
Mr. Lew arrived in Washington in 1973, a skinny, bookish 18-year-old from Queens who got his first taste of Democratic politics at 12 while handing out fliers for Eugene McCarthy's presidential campaign. Today, as a two-time former budget director (he also held the job under President Bill Clinton), he has an intricate understanding of budget policy.
In 1983, as an aide to Speaker Tip O'Neill when Ronald Reagan was president, Mr. Lew helped put Social Security on a path to solvency with a plan that, to many Democrats' chagrin, will eventually raise the retirement age to 67. He keeps a gavel from the day the legislation passed, signed by Mr. O'Neill, on a bookshelf in his office.
In 1997, under Mr. Clinton, Mr. Lew worked with Republicans to balance the federal budget, enabling the president to leave office with a surplus.
Mr. Lew also has foreign policy experience; he spent the first two years of the Obama administration as a deputy to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
He has little use for Washington's social scene; a check of newspaper archives going back to 1977 shows that Mr. Lew has never turned up in The Washington Post's gossip column. His wife, Ruth, lives in their home in the affluent Riverdale section of the Bronx; they commute back and forth and have a daughter in Washington and a son in New York. He likes to cook; he makes a pretty good chicken soup (Ruth is in charge of the matzo balls) and a mean potato kugel.
Mr. Lew's worldview was forged in the late 1960s and early 1970s in Forest Hills, Queens, where he grew up in the middle class in a squat brick apartment building in a neighborhood of bagel shops and corner luncheonettes. His father practiced law solo and dealt in rare books; his mother managed his father's office. In high school, Mr. Lew found himself in music (he played the 12-string guitar), edited the newspaper and fought for causes like building low-income housing in Queens.
''Jack was a folkie,'' said an old friend, Stephen Norman. As a teenager, Mr. Lew liked to hang around the now-defunct Folklore Center in Greenwich Village, where he ran into Don McLean, who had not yet written ''American Pie.'' When the young Mr. Lew organized a fund-raiser to fight world hunger, he persuaded Mr. McLean to play.
If he had a teenage rebellion, it was moving to Minnesota to attend Carleton College (his parents preferred Columbia University) and then quitting after a year to work for Bella Abzug, the flamboyant Manhattan congresswoman. His mother worried that he would never get his degree, but he did, at Harvard. Later, while working on Capitol Hill, he picked up a law degree, attending Georgetown at night.
By the time he was 23, Mr. Lew was a top policy aide to Mr. O'Neill, an experience that friends say sharpened his sense of how federal spending affects people's lives.
''When he said 'Pell grants,' it wasn't something distant or numerical,'' said Chris Matthews of MSNBC, who also worked for Mr. O'Neill and shared an office with Mr. Lew. ''He knew this meant kids could go to college who didn't have rich parents.''
The challenge now for Mr. Lew -- and for Mr. Obama -- is to forge an agreement that does not cut too deeply into the entitlement programs that Democrats cherish. Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Lew is a pragmatist; one person familiar with his thinking said he had previously expressed willingness to raise the Medicare eligibility age from 65 to 67, a move that many liberals oppose.
If Mr. Lew gets the Treasury job, the business world will not be unhappy. He is not a creature of Wall Street, but before joining the Obama administration, he spent three years in high-level (and high-paying) jobs at Citigroup, where he oversaw a unit that lost money but also profited from betting against the subprime mortgage market. Mr. Lew was chief operating officer; in testimony before Congress, he has said he did not make investment decisions.
For Mr. Obama, the choice is whether he needs Mr. Lew more in overseeing the Treasury Department or in running the White House. Though Mr. Lew, who has been the chief of staff for less than a year, is not a member of Mr. Obama's longtime Chicago inner circle, aides say he is a good fit -- ''the no-drama chief of staff for the no-drama president,'' one said -- and Mr. Obama relies on him for more than just budget advice.
''I have been in countless meetings with the president and Jack,'' said Valerie Jarrett, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, ''and also been in meetings with senior staff where Jack hasn't been present, where the president will say, 'What does Jack think?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacob J. Lew (A1)
Jacob J. Lew, center, with Hillary Rodham Clinton, Gene Sperling and Joseph R. Biden Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS)
 Mr. Lew on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' in July. The president's chief of staff, he is known for his low-key style. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOU ROCCO/ABC) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



60 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: What's in Miami's Bloodstream?

BYLINE: By BRETT SOKOL. 
The arts editor at the Miami Beach magazine Ocean Drive.

 BODY:
Miami
TOM WOLFE has often declared that journalistic truth is far stranger -- and narratively juicier -- than fiction, a refrain he's returned to while promoting his latest sociological novel, the Miami- focused ''Back to Blood.'' With cultural eyes turning to Miami for this week's Art Basel fair, and on the heels of a presidential election in which South Florida was once again in the national spotlight, ''Back to Blood'' would seem a perfectly timed prism.
Yet Mr. Wolfe would have done well to better heed his own advice. The flesh-and-blood reality not only contradicts much of his fictional take, it flips the enduring conventional wisdom. Miami is no longer simply the northernmost part of Latin America, or, as some have snarked, a place filled with folks who've been out in the sun too long. 
For Mr. Wolfe, the city remains defined by bitter ethnic divisions and steered by la lucha: the Cuban-American community's -- make that el exilio's -- frothing-at-the-mouth fixation on the Castro regime across the Florida Straits. The radio format whose beats Miami moves to isn't Top 40, rap or even salsa, but all Fidel, all the time. It's a crude portrait, established in the '80s, reinforced by the spring 2000 telenovela starring Elián González, hammered home in the media by that fall's Bush v. Gore drama and replayed with the same script every four years since.
Yet the latest data hardly depicts a monolithic Cuban-exile community marching in ideological lock step. Exit polls conducted by Bendixen & Amandi International revealed that 44 percent of Miami's Cuban-Americans voted to re-elect President Obama last month, despite a Mitt Romney TV ad attempting to link the president with Mr. Castro. The result was not only a record high for a Democratic presidential candidate, it was also a 12 percentage-point jump over 2008.
In fact, among younger Cuban-American voters, the split between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney wasn't even close -- Mr. Obama won handily. Clearly, the demographic handwriting is on the wall, not only for the brand of hard-line conservative thinking that has often kept a stranglehold on local pols, but also for the 50-year-old United States economic embargo against Cuba, enduring only out of the perceived presidential kingmaker role held by Miami's Cubans.
ON the art front, the gap between outsider perception and Miami reality is just as striking. Until the late '90s, the local art scene was essentially moribund. Artists hoping to make a living from their craft had two choices: land a teaching job or pack their bags. However, thanks to Art Basel's catalytic spotlight, the last decade has seen a vibrant art scene blossom, behind only New York and Los Angeles. Give Mr. Wolfe credit for injecting this phenomenon into the plot of ''Back to Blood,'' which centers on a shady Russian oligarch and his donation of $70 million in renowned modernist paintings to start a Miami art museum. The paintings turn out to be fake, to the mortal chagrin of the local elites who climbed over one another to bask in this act of largess's reflected glory.
Two historical events are fused together here: first is the 1963 founding of Miami Beach's Bass Museum of Art, much of whose donated collection of Old Masters, courtesy of the sugar baron John Bass, turned out to be forgeries. (So much for that ''other'' Mona Lisa.) Second is today's Miami Art Museum, set to relocate to a lavish new Herzog & de Meuron-designed building in time for Art Basel 2013, albeit as the rechristened Pérez Art Museum Miami in honor of the local condo developer Jorge Pérez and his $35 million donation of art and cash.
However, rather than -- as Mr. Wolfe would have it -- being wowed by Mr. Pérez's gift, many of Miami's key art collectors (whether they moved to town from Havana or Manhattan's Upper East Side) turned their backs, preferring to invest in their own private museums, many of whose open-to-the-public holdings eclipse those of the Miami Art Museum. Moreover, several of the museum's trustees resigned in protest of the Pérez renaming, calling it an ego-driven insult to Miami, whose taxpayers had already contributed $100 million to the new building. One trustee demanded the return of donated artwork, intending to find it a more deserving home. None of this is the behavior of a money-bedazzled and unsophisticated art crowd -- quite the opposite.
The changes in Miami's celebrated night life are no less dramatic. The debauched South Beach whirl that once drew so much attention now exists only on ''reality'' TV. Both the leggy models and the even leggier drag queens have packed up their high heels and moved on; sidewalk bottlenecks these days are more apt to be caused by oversize strollers than by fashion shoots.
True, the former clubland doyenne Madonna was back on South Beach two weeks ago, holding court at her old Delano Hotel stomping grounds, alongside her erstwhile pal, the '90s night life impresario (and '00s convicted mob associate) Chris Paciello. But there were no murmurs of drug-induced iniquity, no tabloid-titillating photos of Sapphic embraces, not even the kind of room-clearing brawl locally associated with Mr. Paciello before his arrest for his role in a robbery and murder.
Instead, Madonna and her crew commandeered the Delano's velvet-roped nightclub for a G-rated pizza party, with stacks of extra large pies rolled out on room service carts aside the dance floor. And in today's corporatized South Beach, no good deed goes unpublicized: Mr. Paciello (now a Delano ''marketing consultant'' with a reported two-page morals clause in his contract) was apparently tasked with ensuring that the bar mitzvah-style bash -- and the Beach's new frisson-free vibe -- made The New York Post.
To be sure, Miami isn't in danger of becoming a tropical Mayberry anytime soon. But its glaring problems -- from endemic political corruption to an infrastructure literally sinking into the Atlantic Ocean -- are looking less and less uniquely ''Miamian.'' Indeed, these are the same civic issues facing a host of anything-but-exotic American cities. So how to address this mess?
A good start would be to dispense with old paradigms. Journalists clinging to the past might sigh over last month's Election Day chaos in Miami. Taking stock of the voters stuck in sprawling lines, waiting hour after hour to cast their ballots, they'd shrug and mutter a Spanish version of ''Forget it, Jake -- it's Chinatown.''
Shrewder analysts would look at the ballot itself, which reached 12 pages in some parts of the city, packed with 11 proposed state constitutional amendments, thanks to Tallahassee-based legislators hoping to push through radical changes. Miami's voters gamely waded in, slowly reading through all the convoluted legalese despite the resulting backup this caused at the polls.
In the end, they rejected every one of the most eyebrow-raising proposals -- from property tax breaks for snowbirds, to restrictions on abortion, to, yes, further tightening of the embargo on Cuba. That kind of patient thoughtfulness may not make for as exciting a headline as anti-Castro demonstrators, or celebrities behaving badly. But for those of us who actually live in Miami -- who don't merely parachute in to deliver glib verdicts -- it's reason to be hopeful about the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The White Cube party at Soho Beach House last November, during Art Basel Miami Beach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (72%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); RADIO FORMATS (53%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



61 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Mortgage Challenge

 BODY:
The biggest economic policy error of President Obama's first term was the failure to effectively address foreclosures. The administration's efforts were far too limited for far too long. By favoring the voluntary cooperation of banks in reducing monthly payments for hard-pressed borrowers, they did more to shield the banks from losses than to help homeowners and stabilize the market.
Last year, as the campaign drew near, the administration began to reshape its flagging strategy by promoting more refinancings and principal reductions. But it is unclear whether the new efforts will pan out -- and, even if they do, they still will not match the scale of the problem. 
Recent signs of a housing recovery aside, nearly three million loans are now in or near foreclosure, according to Moody's Analytics. In addition, some five million borrowers who are current in their payments have high-rate mortgages that they have not refinanced, in part because of excessive bank fees. In all, nearly 12 million borrowers collectively owe $600 billion more on their mortgages than their homes are worth, a loss of wealth and a load of debt that make a strong and steady economic recovery all but impossible.
The question now is whether Mr. Obama will use his second term to get mortgage relief right and, in the process, put the economy on a firm footing. A first test of his resolve will be the swift nomination of a new director for the agency that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage companies that own or back most mortgages. The acting director, Edward DeMarco, has opposed administration plans to reduce principal balances on underwater loans, even though research shows that principal reduction is generally the most effective form of relief. The fact that he is still in charge casts doubt on the administration's commitment to debt forgiveness. A nominee who supports such relief would underscore the administration's determination to improve and expand its relief efforts. Senate Democrats could help by revising the chamber's rules to make sure the new nominee is not blocked by a filibuster.
A new director also could revise onerous rules that have prevented some borrowers from taking advantage of today's low rates to refinance. Big banks won't like the needed revision, because it would curb the fees and rates they charge on refinancings by fostering competition with midsize and smaller banks.
While new leadership at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is a key to more relief, the push for more help also could be strengthened through a pair of bills that would expand refinancings and principal reductions, introduced by Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, and by two other Senate Democrats, Barbara Boxer of California and Robert Menendez of New Jersey. The administration supports the bills, but what's needed is a strategy for getting them passed, including the use of the president's bully pulpit.
A sound mortgage-relief agenda also requires an enforcement plan. Last January, Mr. Obama promised an investigation into mortgage abuses to hold wrongdoers accountable and generate fines that could be used for providing mortgage relief. Vastly more resources are needed to support the investigation, which so far has yielded two pending cases against big banks by the New York attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, and two settlements by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In his recent budget, Mr. Obama has asked for $55 million, but in the deficit-obsessed Congress, the money won't be forthcoming unless the president makes it a priority.
The White House must also champion strong national standards for banks to follow when processing mortgage payments, defaults and foreclosures. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to release new rules next year, but early indications are that the rules may be weak, allowing for many of the problems and abuses that have long plagued the foreclosure process. The White House cannot direct the rule-making process, but it can send a message to the banks and regulators by setting high and transparent standards, using as a template rules that it helped create in a recent legal settlement with big banks over foreclosure abuses.
There is also one thing that the administration must not do: get sidetracked into premature discussions about reprivatizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The future of those two companies -- and reviving the private mortgage market -- is important, and the White House has put forth sound recommendations. But the foreclosure crisis, and its damage to homeowners and the economy, is still paramount. In the next term, the focus should be on debt reduction, refinancing, enforcement and true consumer protection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FILIBUSTER (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); JEFF MERKLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



62 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Poor Women and Children Faced With Fiscal Threat

BYLINE: BRYCE COVERT


HIGHLIGHT: Cuts to nondiscretionary public spending, whether bargained for or automatic, will disproportionately affect women and children living in poverty. 

 BODY:
As negotiating and posturing over the looming "fiscal cliff" continues, one phrase we hear less often than we should is "nondefense discretionary spending." A boring string of words if ever there was one, it's a category of spending that will play a role whether we go off the cliff or if we avoid it with a grand bargain, since it stands to see drastic cuts either way. Those abstract, boring words represent very concrete assistance to women and children living in poverty. A significant reduction in governmental spending in that opaquely named category will disproportionately affect programs they rely on.
If nothing is done and we go over the fiscal cliff, sequestration kicks in - automatic spending cuts that resulted from Congress's failure to reach a deficit reduction deal last year. Sequestration calls for $1.2 trillion in cuts evenly split between defense and nondefense spending over the next decade. But $109 billion of that will hitin fiscal year 2013, gouging a $55 billion hole in the nondefense side. That will amount to an 8.2 percent reduction in nondefense discretionary spending. 
If we don't go over the cliff, any grand bargain to avoid it will most likely have similar cuts. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities sayssequestration is "best thought of as the first stage of deficit-reduction action that is likely to consist of several measures enacted over several years." President Obama's recent starting bid in the negotiations includes the sequestration cuts. The Fix the Debt campaign's CEO Fiscal Leadership Council recommends a deal that wants to "cut low-priority spending." This category of spending is particularly easy for lawmakers on both sides of the aisle to hack at because, as David Kamin explained in The Washington Post, "cutting it is as simple as changing numbers on a spreadsheet." You have to get a lot more specific in other areas of the budget.
But the effects of fiddling with those numbers are stark for low-income Americans. About 25 percent of that spending goes to programs that help the poor. Here's a visual breakdown of which categories receive this money:
This spending represents public investment in the entire country, but the majority of it goes to programs for low-income Americans. Education, housing assistance, child care, nutrition assistance, home heating assistance and income security for the blind, disabled and aged make up a third of it. Much of this is implemented by giving money to the states, which run these programs more locally. Those grants would receive an 18 percent reduction if sequestration hits, including money for nutrition programs for low-income women and children, public education and public housing.
Women, who are the majority of those living in poverty, will beliterally left in the cold without this assistance. Liheap, the home energy assistance program, helps 23 million people stay warm in the winter. Section 8 housing assistance vouchers support more than two million families. The Women, Infants and Children program, or W.I.C., helps its nine million enrolled low-income mothers and children with supplemental nutrition and health care referrals. Head Start reached about one million people in 2010, yet would have a reduction of nearly 100,000 childrenunder sequestration. The cuts would also end child-care assistance for 80,000 more children.
When the Census Bureau released new Supplemental Poverty Measure numbers on poverty, which are more comprehensive than the standard measurement, it also included estimates of how many more people would be in poverty without some of these vital programs. The baseline S.P.M. rate of 16.1 percent for the total population would rise to 17 percent without housing assistance, 16.2 percent without W.I.C. and the same rate without Liheap. The numbers are worse when just we just look at children. Their 18.1 percent S.P.M. rate would rise to 19.5 percent without housing assistance, 18.4 percent without W.I.C. and 18.2 percent without Liheap. That means pulling back on these programs exposes those who rely on them to even deeper poverty - and children are hit hardest.
While the spotlight has centered on tax code reform and entitlement spending, this less-discussed category of spending has serious consequences for some of the most vulnerable populations. Poor women and children have been left out of the negotiations, but they should be at the center of the debate.

        
Do Gender-Neutral Gifts Still Elude Parents?
        
The Macroeconomics of Raising Robots (or Children)
        
Career Re-entry for the At-Home Parent
        
How Can a Stay-at-Home Mom Get Back to Work?
        
'Worst Toy Awards' Target Lego Friends

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); WOMEN (75%); PARENTING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); NUTRITION (60%) Affordable Housing; Children and Childhood; Federal Budget (US); Parenting; United States Economy; Welfare (US); Women and Girls

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012



63 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley Trader Faces Inquiry on Possible Manipulation

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Glenn Hadden, who is now head of the global interest rates desk at Morgan Stanley, is under investigation over his trading in Treasury futures while at Goldman Sachs, according to a regulatory filing. 

 BODY:
On paper, Glenn Hadden seemed to be the ideal person to run a large bond trading operation at Morgan Stanley when he was hired in early 2011. Mr. Hadden, a former Goldman partner, was one of the most profitable bond traders on Wall Street.
But there was more to his story than just stellar financial results. He had left his previous employer, Goldman Sachs, after questions about his trading activity. And now, Mr. Hadden is under investigation over his trading in Treasury futures while at Goldman, according to a regulatory filing. 
Specifically, regulators at the CME Group, which runs commodity and futures exchanges, are investigating whether Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures late in the trading day manipulated closing prices in the market and, in turn, made other of his trades more profitable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
Mr. Hadden, who is now the head of the global interest rates desk at Morgan Stanley, has been given formal notice by the CME that an inquiry is under way, meaning that it is at an advanced stage.
Through a Morgan Stanley spokesman, Mr. Hadden, 42, declined to comment. Goldman Sachs also declined to comment, and Morgan Stanley would say only that Mr. Hadden continues to work at the firm as head of global rates.
Mr. Hadden is one of the highest paid professionals at Morgan Stanley and has been known throughout his career for aggressive and profitable risk taking. It is unusual for someone of Mr. Hadden's stature to be the target of a civil complaint like this, and if he is found to have violated exchange rules, he could, in the extreme, face millions in fines and be barred from trading on the CME Group.
While Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs learned about the investigation only in recent months, both firms were aware of another controversy involving Mr. Hadden that took place not long after the CME trading now under scrutiny.
After receiving complaints involving Mr. Hadden from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Goldman Sachs took the extraordinary step of putting him on paid leave in 2009, according to several people briefed on the matter.
Goldman is one of 21 firms designated to trade United States government securities with the New York Fed. Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on the matter, suspected that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth. A spokesman for the New York Fed declined to comment.
While neither Goldman nor Mr. Hadden was accused by regulators of wrongdoing in that case, Mr. Hadden's leave from Goldman dragged on for months, in part because senior managers were divided on whether he should return to work, and whether he should have managerial responsibilities if he did return, according to people involved in the discussions.
In November 2010, Goldman told its employees that Mr. Hadden was leaving the firm. Morgan Stanley snapped him up soon afterward. Several senior executives there were aware of the New York Fed's complaints when Mr. Hadden was hired, but they were satisfied that he had not done anything wrong, according to people involved in the decision to hire him.
"Wall Street is always looking for a proven moneymaker and has been known to look the other way on things in pursuit of that," said Michael Driscoll, a former senior trader at the Wall Street firm Bear Stearns who now teaches at Adelphi University.
Mr. Hadden joined Goldman in 1999, just months before the firm went public, and rose to become one of the bank's top traders. In 2008 he was made a partner, a title typically reserved for executives known inside Goldman as "commercial killers" - people who make an outsize financial contribution to the firm. Current and former colleagues said Mr. Hadden, who has been known to drink copious amounts of Gatorade at work, was almost "machinelike" when he traded. "He gets this look in his eye," one former colleague said. "It is scary."
His trading made him very wealthy. His exact compensation is not known but rival rates traders and head hunters estimate that in his best years he made more than $10 million.
Mr. Hadden was just the sort of swing-for-the-fences trader Morgan Stanley needed in late 2010, when it was working to rehabilitate its fixed income, or bond, department. That unit, where Mr. Hadden now works, was badly bruised during the financial crisis. Since then, its efforts to rebuild have been slowed by ratings cuts and new regulations that require it and its rivals to hold more capital against riskier operations. These rules are forcing Morgan to either scale back or get out of certain business lines altogether.
Trading interest rates, which fall under the bond department, however, is less capital intensive, so in recent years, Morgan Stanley has made a big push into this corner of Wall Street. Enter Mr. Hadden.
He has continued to deliver profits to Morgan Stanley, but his time there has not been without incident. In 2011, Mr. Hadden's division was burned by a bad wager on United States inflation expectations, resulting in a loss of tens of millions of dollars, according to people briefed on the trade. Since then, Morgan executives have increased their supervision of Mr. Hadden's activities, according to several people briefed on the matter.
A lot is riding on Mr. Hadden at Morgan, however. Not only does he run the firm's powerful rates desk, but many of his bosses - including Colm Kelleher, co-president of institutional securities, and Kenneth M. deRegt, global head of fixed income sales and trading - had a role in hiring him.
Morgan Stanley reported the investigation to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, on Nov. 19, according to a person briefed on the matter.
Mr. Hadden got his start in finance in Canada. He was raised in Ontario and attended the University of Western Ontario, where he played football. He worked on Bay Street, which is Toronto's financial district, and eventually landed a job there with Goldman. He also worked for Goldman in London and New York.
He has not forgotten his Canadian roots. He is a big supporter of the Toronto Argonauts football team, and he held a charity-driven party in Toronto connected to the recent centennial Grey Cup.

        
A.I.G. and Treasury Pick 4 Banks for Big Stock Sale
        
Lawyer Says Trader Did Not Manipulate Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); FUTURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; CME Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Futures and Options Trading; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley; Treasury Department; CME Group Inc|CME|NASDAQ; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); CME GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CME Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley; Treasury Department

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (91%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%) CME Group Inc; CME; NASDAQ; CME Group Inc; CME; NASDAQ; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; CME Group Inc; CME; NASDAQ; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



64 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Delta, Seeking London Access, Ponders a Stake in Virgin Atlantic

BYLINE: JAD MOUAWAD AND MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: In an effort to bolster its international operations, Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy Singapore Airlines' 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways. 

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy Singapore Airlines' 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways, in an effort to bolster its international operations, particularly flights between New York and London, a person briefed on the matter said on Sunday.
Talks are continuing but a deal will not be announced soon, this person said. Singapore Airlines confirmed that it was in discussions about a potential sale of its Virgin stake, but provided no further details. 
A transaction would be the latest in a round of mergers that has reshaped the airline industry, as companies in the United States and Europe have looked to consolidation to restore profitability.
 With oil prices remaining stubbornly high and the economic outlook uncertain, many airlines have continued to struggle. That may precipitate even more takeovers, analysts say.
A deal would also be Delta's most significant strategic move since its 2008 merger with Northwest Airlines, which made it the biggest American carrier until the union of United Airlines and Continental Airlines last year.
It would provide more access to London's Heathrow Airport, one of the world's busiest, and expand Delta's North Atlantic business.
It would also bolster its partnership with Air France KLM, Europe's biggest airline. Both companies are part of the Sky Team global alliance, and also run a joint business in the North Atlantic market, sharing flights, revenues and costs.
"Delta has shown time and time again that it is extremely opportunistic," said Brett Snyder, an airline expert. "If it sees a good opportunity, nothing is off the table."
If it proceeded, a transaction would directly challenge the Oneworld global alliance, whose biggest members are American Airlines and British Airways. The two airlines have an international joint venture. Virgin does not belong to any of the three major airline alliances - Star, Oneworld and Sky Team - depriving it of the ability to coordinate flights and cut costs, which has helped many of its competitors. Star's major carriers are United, US Airways and Lufthansa. The deal would also give Virgin a strong partner as it struggles to compete against rivals with deeper pockets. Founded by Richard Branson in 1984, the company has long embraced an image of fun travel and cheaper fares.
But that has not helped the airline's financial condition of late. Virgin lost £80 million, or $128 million, in the year that ended in February, compared with a profit of £18.5 million in the previous year.
The company has been under pressure from the likes of British Airways, whose corporate parent, IAG, bought BMI British Midlands earlier this year. Virgin fought against that deal, arguing that it would give British Airways too much of a presence at Heathrow. But the takeover was completed, after IAG complied with a European Commission order to give back 14 slots at the airport.
The deal may also pave the way for an eventual change of control of Virgin. The company's chief executive, Steve Ridgway, told The Financial Times in an interview in January that Mr. Branson was prepared to sell some of his 51 percent controlling stake in the airline.
"For Virgin, it's an exit strategy in an environment where they are being marginalized by alliances on the Atlantic," said Robert W. Mann, an airline analyst based in Port Washington, N.Y.
A Delta spokeswoman declined to comment. A representative for Virgin was not immediately available for comment.
An earlier version of this article misstated the date of Delta's merger with Northwest Airlines. It was 2008, not 2010.

        
Delta's Talks Over Virgin Stake Raise Questions About Branson's Holdings
        
Virgin Atlantic Says It's Been Approached About Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); MERGERS (90%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Airlines and Airplanes; Delta Air Lines, Inc; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Oneworld; Singapore Airlines; Virgin Atlantic Airways; Aerospace & Defense; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (95%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (85%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Delta Air Lines, Inc; Oneworld; Singapore Airlines; Virgin Atlantic Airways

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); C6L (SGX) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (57%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (95%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



65 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
¶Fruit of the Loom, Bowling Green, Ky., part of Berkshire Hathaway, chose Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners, to handle its creative and media buying accounts, which had been handled since 2000 by the Richards Group, Dallas. Spending was estimated at $25 million to $30 million. The decision came after a review in which Richards did not take part; the agency's policy is not to participate if accounts are placed in review.
¶Mondelez International, Deerfield, Ill., reorganized the agency roster for its Oreo brand. The company will now work with various creative agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies for Oreo campaigns; previously, DraftFCB, part of Interpublic, had been the Oreo worldwide creative agency of record. DraftFCB will continue to create Oreo ads, said Laurie Guzzinati, a spokeswoman at Mondelez, along with Interpublic agencies like the Martin Agency, and John Campbell, the Oreo account director at DraftFCB, will oversee the Interpublic creative efforts for the brand. An agency not owned by Interpublic, Wieden & Kennedy, bested DraftFCB to win last week an assignment to create a 30-second Oreo commercial, which will run during the first half of Super Bowl XLVII on CBS on Feb. 3, 2013. Ms. Guzzinati said the selection was ''a specific, limited assignment related to a Super Bowl advertising campaign'' and was unrelated to the new Oreo agency roster. 
¶Joe's Crab Shack, part of the Ignite Restaurant Group, Houston, named two agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies to handle its creative and media assignments. Spending was estimated at more than $12 million. The creative account was assigned to McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of Interpublic; it was previously handled by Slingshot, Dallas. Media planning and buying were assigned to Universal McCann, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of Interpublic; media planning was previously handled by Slingshot and media buying was previously handled by the Southwest Media Group, Dallas.
¶Duxiana, the Swedish mattress maker, chose the Gate Worldwide, New York, as agency of record to create campaigns for its Dux bed. Billings were not disclosed. There had been no previous agency of record.
People
¶Raj Kamble joined StrawberryFrog, part of APCO Worldwide, as partner and managing director of a new office in Mumbai, India. He had most recently been managing partner and chief creative officer at BBH India, Mumbai, part of the Bartle Bogle Hegarty unit of the Publicis Groupe. The office represents the first expansion by StrawberryFrog, which has offices in New York and Amsterdam, since its acquisition by APCO in February.
¶Olivier Francois, chief marketing officer at the Chrysler Group, was honored last week by two advertising trade publications. He was chosen as the Grand Brand Genius from among the 10 winners of the 2012 Adweek Brand Genius awards bestowed by Adweek, part of Prometheus Global Media. And Mr. Francois was the focus of an article in Advertising Age, part of Crain Communications, that described why Ad Age chose the Chrysler Group as its 2012 Marketer of the Year.
Miscellany
¶Three leading media forecasters are reducing their estimates for growth in worldwide advertising spending in 2013 compared with this year because of the continued sluggishness of economies in major ad markets like Europe and the United States. Still, they are all forecasting growth; none is predicting a decline. GroupM, part of WPP, said ad spending next year would grow 4.5 percent; its previous forecast, in June, was for a gain of 5.3 percent. Magna Global, part of the IPG Mediabrands unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said ad spending next year would increase 3.1 percent; its previous forecast, also in June, predicted growth of 4.5 percent. And ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, said ad spending next year would grow 4.1 percent; its previous forecast, in October, projected growth of 4.6 percent. Their predictions for growth in ad spending next year in the United States are: GroupM, up 0.6 percent; Magna Global, up 2.7 percent; and ZenithOptimedia, up 3.5 percent. The forecasters are to elaborate on their predictions at the opening session on Monday of the 40th annual UBS Global Media and Communications Conference in New York.
¶Total spending by marketers on paid product placements in media like television, movies, online and mobile platforms and video games increased 9.8 percent last year to $7.39 billion, according to an annual report by PQ Media, Stamford, Conn. In the United States, the largest market for product placement, spending rose 10.2 percent last year to $4.26 billion, the report said. The report predicted there would be strong growth in both realms this year compared with last, projecting a global total of $8.25 billion, up 11.7 percent, and a United States total of $4.75 billion, up 11.4 percent.
¶M&C Saatchi, London, opened an office in Stockholm, to be led by Bjarte Eide, chief executive; Klara Eide, executive strategy director; and Martin Cedergen and Patrick Dry as co-executive creative directors. The office is the third that M&C Saatchi has opened this year, joining new offices in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and New York.
¶Promise Corporation, London and New York, was acquired by the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Promise will become part of Communispace, which the division acquired last year; both Communispace and Promise specialize in consumer insights.
¶Advertising revenue for out-of-home media rose 4.4 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period of 2011, according to a report by the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington. For the first nine months, ad revenue is also up 4.4 percent compared with the same period a year ago, the association said.
¶Robert Shullman, who retired in January as president at Ipsos Mendelsohn, part of Ipsos MediaCT, where he oversaw the annual Mendelsohn Affluent Survey of the shopping and media habits of the wealthy, opened the Shullman Research Center. He plans to issue reports on the habits of the well-to-do, called the Shullman Luxury and Affluence Monthly Pulse.
¶D&AD, London, presented its first D&AD White Pencil award to Leo Burnett Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, for a campaign called ''Recipeace,'' which is intended to be a social movement that brings people together over a shared meal. The award, modeled after the other honors bestowed by D&AD, which are known as Pencils, is meant to recognize ideas that promote social change. The White Pencil is sponsored by Unilever.
¶McDonald's has become the official restaurant sponsor of the National Football League under a multiyear agreement between the company and league. Financial terms were not disclosed. There has been no official restaurant sponsor since 2007, when Burger King ended a two-year sponsorship. The McDonald's sponsorship will begin with a promotion, centered on the annual Pro Bowl, that is to begin on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (66%); MATTRESS MFG (50%); RESTAURANTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (96%); DRAFTFCB INC (93%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (66%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (61%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); IGNITE RESTAURANT GROUP INC (54%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING INC (53%); APCO WORLDWIDE INC (52%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (96%); PUB (PAR) (84%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); IRG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (96%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (96%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (73%); MUMBAI, INDIA (66%) KENTUCKY, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); INDIA (85%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



66 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include ISM manufacturing index for November and construction spending for October (Monday), ADP employment for November; revised third-quarter productivity, ISM service index for November and factory orders for October (Wednesday), weekly jobless claims (Thursday) and unemployment for November, Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December and consumer credit for October (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report include Toll Brothers and Pandora Media (Tuesday) and Smithfield Foods (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, automakers will report their North American sales for November; and the Financial Stability Oversight Council will meet in a closed session in Washington.
On Tuesday, John Stumpf, the chief executive of Wells Fargo; Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America; and Kenneth Chenault, the chief executive of American Express, will speak at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference at the Conrad Hotel in New York; and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will release its quarterly banking profile on industry earnings.
On Wednesday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the economic and market implications of provisions in the Dodd-Frank overhaul law on derivatives; and the Department of Energy will release its annual forecast for energy supply, demand and prices to 2040.
On Thursday, the Census Bureau will release the third of three broad surveys about 2007-11 data on income, education, occupation and other features; a federal judge will hear Apple's arguments for permanently barring United States sales of eight Samsung smartphone models; the Joint Economic Committee will conduct a hearing about the effect of the so-called fiscal cliff on the economy and the middle class; the House Transportation Committee will conduct a hearing on the high-speed and intercity passenger rail program; the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about oversight of the Federal Housing Administration; a Senate Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the effect of Hurricane Sandy on the nation's transportation systems; and Edward DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, will speak at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association's securitization outlook conference in New York.
On Friday, American Airlines' pilots will conclude voting on their contract.
OVERSEAS On Monday, euro zone finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss the fiscal troubles of Greece, Spain and Cyprus; and the United Nations World Conference on International Telecommunications will start in Dubai and run through Dec. 14. Representatives from 193 United Nations member states will develop new international rules and guidelines.
On Tuesday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss banking oversight.
On Wednesday, the United States Embassy in Beijing will bring together Chinese investors to discuss investment opportunities with officials from American states; and George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, will present updates of economic and fiscal forecasts.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions about interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); CALENDARS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); EURO ZONE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); CONSUMER CREDIT (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CENSUS (73%); SECURITIZATION (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%); JUDGES (66%); SMARTPHONES (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (55%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); APPLE INC (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (80%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); SFD (NYSE) (57%); P (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (53%); JOHN G STUMPF (53%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (53%); GEORGE OSBORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (65%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BELGIUM (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CYPRUS (79%); GREECE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



67 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.11 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Beloit, Wis., School District, $57.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Fremont, Calif., Unified School District, $82.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Multnomah County, Ore., $128 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Texas, $100 million of general obligation highway improvement bonds. Competitive.
Texas Transportation Commission, 100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alabama Federal and Highway Finance Authority, $336.9 million of federal highway grant anticipation bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Atlantic City, $95 million of tax appeal refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Austin, Tex., Electric Utility Commission, $385 million of taxable/tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Calif., Bay Area Toll Authority, $310 million of Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association index rate remarketing bonds. Bank of America.
Cincinnati, $51.9 million of general obligation bonds. PNC Capital Markets.
Contra Costa, Calif. Transportation Authority, $166 million of sales tax revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Contra Costa, Calif., Transportation Authority, $201.4 million of sales tax limited refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Denver School District No. 1 $67.2 million of general obligation bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.
Denver School District No. 1, $466 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Hanover County, Va., Economic Development Authority, $69.7 million of residential care facility revenue bonds. BB&T capital Markets.
Los Angeles Department of Airports, $269 million of international airport senior revenue tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Massachusetts, $380.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Miami, $50 million of limited offering bonds. PNC Capital Markets
Missouri Development Finance Board, $55.7 million of independence revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $326.2 million of transportation system bonds. Barclays Capital.
New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $920.7 million of transportation program bonds, Barclays Capital.
New Mexico Finance Authority, $315.8 million of transportation refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, $435 million of water and sewer system second general resolution revenue bonds. Raymond James.
New York State Housing Finance Agency, $157.5 million of affordable housing revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Oklahoma County Finance Authority, $66 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. Ziegler.
Oregon Health and Science University, $124.9 million of revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Spring Lake, Calif., Episcopal Senior Communities, Association of Bay Area Governments Finance Authority, $138.7 million of nonprofit corporation revenue bonds. Ziegler.
Texas Transportation Commission, $839.3 million of Texas highway improvement general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Wyandotte County, Kan., Board of Public Utilities, $78.8 million of utility system improvement revenue bonds. BMO Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (62%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); PJC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



68 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: With Carbon Dioxide Emissions at Record High, Worries on How to Slow Warming

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS and JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
Global emissions of carbon dioxide were at a record high in 2011 and are likely to take a similar jump in 2012, scientists reported Sunday -- the latest indication that efforts to limit such emissions are failing.
Emissions continue to grow so rapidly that an international goal of limiting the ultimate warming of the planet to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, established three years ago, is on the verge of becoming unattainable, said researchers affiliated with the Global Carbon Project.
Josep G. Canadell, a scientist in Australia who leads that tracking program, said Sunday in a statement that salvaging the goal, if it can be done at all, ''requires an immediate, large and sustained global mitigation effort.'' 
Yet nations around the world, despite a formal treaty pledging to limit warming -- and 20 years of negotiations aimed at putting it into effect -- have shown little appetite for the kinds of controls required to accomplish those stated aims.
Delegates from nearly 200 nations are meeting in Doha, Qatar, for the latest round of talks under the treaty, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Their agenda is modest this year, with no new emissions targets and little progress expected on a protocol that is supposed to be concluded in 2015 and take effect in 2020.
Christiana Figueres, the executive secretary of the climate convention, said the global negotiations were necessary, but were not sufficient.
''We won't get an international agreement until enough domestic legislation and action are in place to begin to have an effect,'' she said in an interview. ''Governments have to find ways in which action on the ground can be accelerated and taken to a higher level, because that is absolutely needed.''
The new figures show that emissions are falling, slowly, in some of the most advanced countries, including the United States. That apparently reflects a combination of economic weakness, the transfer of some manufacturing to developing countries and conscious efforts to limit emissions, like the renewable power targets that many American states have set. The boom in the natural gas supply from hydraulic fracturing is also a factor, since natural gas is supplanting coal at many power stations, leading to lower emissions.
But the decline of emissions in the developed countries is more than matched by continued growth in developing countries like China and India, the new figures show. Coal, the dirtiest and most carbon-intensive fossil fuel, is growing fastest, with coal-related emissions leaping more than 5 percent in 2011, compared with the previous year.
''If we're going to run the world on coal, we're in deep trouble,'' said Gregg H. Marland, a scientist at Appalachian State University who has tracked emissions for decades.
Over all, global emissions jumped 3 percent in 2011 and are expected to jump 2.6 percent in 2012, researchers reported in two papers released by scientific journals on Sunday. It has become routine to set new emissions records each year, although the global economic crisis led to a brief decline in 2009.
The level of carbon dioxide, the most important heat-trapping gas in the atmosphere, has increased about 41 percent since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and scientists fear it could double or triple before emissions are brought under control. The temperature of the planet has already increased about 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit since 1850.
Further increases in carbon dioxide are likely to have a profound effect on climate, scientists say, leading to higher seas and greater coastal flooding, more intense weather disasters like droughts and heat waves, and an extreme acidification of the ocean. Many experts believe the effects are already being seen, but they are projected to worsen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (79%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); POWER PLANTS (61%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (61%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (60%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QATAR (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



69 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: A Stalwart Of Time Inc. Packs Up

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n

 BODY:
In the decade I've covered John Huey, I'd never once been to his magisterial office on the 34th floor of the Time & Life building. It is large and imposing in a way its occupant is not, an unlikely landing spot for an old newspaper hack. On the wall is a photograph of William Faulkner, ''the patron saint of all hard-drinking Southern writers,'' as Mr. Huey, a native of Atlanta, describes him.
At the end of the year, Mr. Huey will vacate the office and leave his position as Time Inc.'s editor in chief. Martha Nelson, the editorial director of the company, will move in and become the first woman to hold the job.
Mr. Huey says he won't miss the perch and I believe him, partly because the job now has brutal aspects. Besides, he is a reporter by nature, and seemed happy to be at-large whenever I saw him at events. 
Mr. Huey, who had his start as a reporter at The Atlanta Constitution before heading to The Wall Street Journal and then Time Inc., is only the sixth editor in chief in the company's history, a job that the writer Kurt Andersen once described as having ''papal luster.'' These days? Not so much.
''There's been a fair amount of unpleasantness at that table,'' Mr. Huey said, pointing to a big one in the corner. Rather than using it to plan magazine start-ups or acquisitions, he found himself going over lists of staff cuts necessitated by print's collapse.
In his seven years as the top editor, the core magazines -- like Time, Fortune, People and Money -- have lost almost a third of their employees, and the future is no brighter. Overall revenue at Time Inc. fell 6 percent last quarter, to $838 million, although operating income increased 2 percent, thanks to the constant cost-cutting.
''Google sort of sucked all of the honey out of our business,'' he said with a shrug, not complaining, just saying.
''When it was good, it was really good, but there were a lot of rough patches,'' he said. ''But I never wondered why I got into journalism during any of it. I still believe in the kind of storytelling we do here.''
But that confidence had limits. In the 11 years Mr. Huey helped run the editorial side of Time Inc. -- first as editorial director, then as editor in chief -- he commuted to his home and family in Charleston, S.C., on weekends, partly because he always felt he was on the cusp of being fired.
''There have been bullets flying since I got here, way back when I first came as a writer at Fortune,'' he said, referring to his first job at the company, in 1988. ''I came to work when it was just Time Inc., then it became part of Time Warner, and then it was Time Warner with Turner, and then it became AOL Time Warner and then just Time Warner again. I always figured my time might be up. Came close, but it never happened.''
As the editor of Fortune, Mr. Huey was a consummate magazine maker, turning out a product that was modern, knowing and highly decorated. A former naval intelligence officer, he displayed a remarkable understanding of how power operates in corporate America, which served him well as he navigated his way to the top of Time Inc.
''Media can be a very dangerous and political business -- I am not an innocent in such matters, by the way -- but I always had enough information to stay away from the more obvious hazards,'' he said. ''And we did O.K. We avoided major conflagrations, there were no $1 billion lawsuits, and no compromise in the journalism we were doing at our magazines.''
He had excellent relationships with Richard Parsons and Jeffrey Bewkes, the former and current chief executives of Time Warner, which came in handy, given that the leadership at Time Inc. became somewhat chaotic after the departure of Don Logan, the former chief executive of Time Inc. and a mentor of Mr. Huey.
Ann S. Moore, the chief executive when Mr. Huey became editor in chief in 2006, eliminated potential rivals and a lot of talent in the process. Jack Griffin replaced Ms. Moore in 2010 and quickly began remaking Time Inc. He grew tired of Mr. Huey's resistance and took aim at him, according to executives at Time Warner, and was out after five months.
It fell to Mr. Huey, along with the company's chief financial officer and its general counsel, to run the company until earlier this year, when Laura Lang, a newcomer to publishing, was selected as chief executive.
''It's odd that a former newspaper guy ended up helping run the place, but it turned into a job for a 'mudder,' and I can run in the mud if I have to,'' he said.
Approaching 65, he decided it was time to move on. He will not leave to a herald of trumpets, but he has had his wins: by some measure, Time and Money are the last players standing in their categories.
Mr. Huey installed a bureau in Detroit when the rest of the country was trying to forget about it, and he scrambled the jets so Time Inc. magazines had a presence in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
He also brokered a deal with Turner Broadcasting to set up CNN/Money, which used the editorial content and staff of Money and Fortune to create a highly profitable Web site that makes more money than both those magazines. He was, in the main, an anchor for a company that often needed one.
''John is a very funny, self-deprecating guy, and none of that gets in the way of him being a very serious person,'' said Daniel Okrent, who worked with Mr. Huey for many years. ''He preserved the editorial independence of the magazines at a time when it was hard to resist the constant economic pressure to do stories that would help advertising.''
Now Mr. Huey is packing his stuff to prepare for a fellowship at Harvard. ''I'm looking forward to getting back closer to the keyboard than I have been,'' he said. Before he goes, he will probably slip Merle Haggard's ''Big City'' into the CD player, an album whose title track frequently kept him company in his corner office.
I'm tired of this dirty old city.
Entirely too much work and never enough play.
And I'm tired of these dirty old sidewalks.
Think I'll walk off my steady job today.
Gesturing at the magazines on the table, Mr. Huey said: ''We still make a great deal of money because consumers pay us money for the products that we give them.''
''But I can't look anybody in the eye who is coming into the business and tell them that they are going to end up in an office like this,'' he added, with a wave at its expanse. ''But who is to say that anybody should live like this anyway?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Huey, the departing editor in chief of Time Inc., in his office: ''I still believe in the kind of storytelling we do here.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); DISMISSALS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



70 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2633 words

HEADLINE: A Mets Owner and Claims of Consumer Fraud

BYLINE: By STEVE EDER, RICHARD SANDOMIR and ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
This article is by Steve Eder, Richard Sandomir and Alison Leigh Cowan.
In March 2012, a group of online retailers was sued in federal court, accused of having participated in a cynical and longstanding scheme to cheat customers out of millions of dollars. One of the named defendants is 1-800-Flowers.com Inc., which says it is the world's leading florist and gift shop.
The plaintiffs said the system worked this way: a customer, perhaps racing to buy flowers online for Mother's Day, would enter a credit card number, click ''Purchase,'' and then be offered a cash-back rebate. If the customer clicked on the rebate option and failed to read the fine print, however, he or she wound up registering for a near-worthless club membership that would charge the credit card for months, sometimes years, before the expenses on the credit card statements were detected. Outfits like 1-800-Flowers.com received a cut of the operation, what regulators and others have called ''bounties.''
A recent legal filing by lawyers in the case asserted that ''1-800-Flowers was well aware that its customers were getting defrauded.'' 
Shortly after the lawsuit was filed in Connecticut last spring, the founder and chief executive of 1-800-Flowers.com officially became a minority owner of the Mets. The company executive, James F. McCann, had been selected by the team's owners as one of a handful of investors whose infusion of cash was needed to help rescue the Mets from a financial crisis.
The team's owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, have never told the public, or fans, the identity of the emergency investors -- and new part owners. But McCann, whose company has long been an official sponsor of the Mets, and whose advertisements are prominently displayed at Citi Field, has acknowledged that he now owns a small chunk of the team.
It is unclear if Wilpon and Katz knew that McCann's company had been accused of defrauding customers.
But a review of 1-800-Flowers.com's legal problems makes clear that the 2012 lawsuit is hardly the first time someone has accused McCann's business of knowingly participating in defrauding customers -- with some of its victims quite possibly Mets fans, given the company's aggressive marketing to the team's loyal supporters.
Two years ago, a lawsuit was filed in federal court in Long Island claiming consumer fraud and racketeering violations against 1-800-Flowers.com and other companies, alleging they had worked together to ''levy unauthorized charges on the unsuspecting consumers' credit or debit card accounts'' by inducing customers to pay for memberships to discount clubs without their knowledge.
That lawsuit, now in the process of being consolidated with the Connecticut case, came after the New York attorney general at the time, Andrew M. Cuomo, launched an investigation into the ''discount club'' industry, finding that 1-800-Flowers.com and other companies had ''tricked'' consumers into signing up for these memberships that charged them hidden fees.
There were also Senate investigative reports, issued in November 2009 and May 2010, that prominently cited 1-800-Flowers.com for its aggressive online sales tactics, saying the Long Island-based flower firm had been paid more than $10 million for allowing others to engage in what the report described as ''post-transaction marketing.''
A spokesman for McCann and 1-800-Flowers.com would not comment for this article but said in an e-mail that the matters raised ''are more than two years old, have been largely resolved and have been previously disclosed in our company's public filings.'' Last month, 1-800-Flowers.com Inc. said in a regulatory filing that it intended to defend itself vigorously in each of the outstanding lawsuits.
But in a 2010 settlement with the New York attorney general, the company paid $325,000 and promised to end practices Cuomo's office had called ''fraudulent,'' at least as they related to the company's New York customers. The company neither admitted nor disputed claims of wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
The settlement noted that 1-800-Flowers.com had since removed the solicitation and membership club enrollment link from its order confirmation page.
A spokesman for Wilpon and Katz and the Mets declined to comment on McCann's legal entanglements.
In 2008, when Bernard L. Madoff was arrested and his multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme collapsed, Wilpon and Katz, as longtime Madoff clients with investments of hundreds of millions of dollars, had their financial empire upended. Things got worse when, late in 2010, the court-appointed trustee representing Madoff's victims sued Wilpon and Katz for $1 billion, saying they had enriched themselves for years while ignoring warnings that Madoff was up to no good.
Wilpon and Katz, as a consequence, went in search of cash. The men needed to repay some of their debt and deal with operating losses that rose to $70 million in 2011. The men ultimately decided to raise $200 million by selling 10 to 12 shares in the club, each representing a 4 percent ownership stake. Eventually, 12 were sold, but only a small number went to true outsiders.
One of those outsiders is Steven A. Cohen, the head of SAC Capital Advisors, a $14 billion hedge fund at the focus of an intensifying government investigation into insider trading. Cohen has not been accused of wrongdoing and may never be, but last month federal prosecutors charged a former portfolio manager with a $276 million insider trading scheme that for the first time connected Cohen to some questionable trades. Prosecutors have called the most recent case against an associate of Cohen's the most lucrative insider trading case in history.
McCann, while technically an outside investor, is an old friend of Wilpon's. McCann has long been part of a group that every season visits spring training at Port St. Lucie, Fla.
In June, McCann told The New York Post that he, along with some partners, had bought a piece of the Mets. McCann said it was ''a reasonable investment, but growing up a lifelong Mets fan, this was more about being able to do something fun and interesting for me and my family.''
Building a Business
McCann's ability to afford even a modest stake in a Major League Baseball franchise demonstrates how far he has come in amassing a fortune in the flower business.
From Rockaway, Queens, McCann, 61, studied psychology at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York and then became a social worker for 14 years at the St. John's Home for Boys, in Queens. For extra money, he also tended bar.
McCann told The New York Times, as part of a 2008 profile, that a regular customer he called ''Scotch and Soda'' mentioned plans to sell his flower shop. In 1976, McCann borrowed $10,000 to buy that shop in Manhattan, making it the first in his eventual floral empire. Later, he bought the 1-800-Flowers phone number and 1-800-Flowers.com Web site, before taking the company public for $21 a share in 1999 in an initial public offering handled by Goldman Sachs.
Now, 1-800-Flowers.com reports annual revenue of over $700 million and employs 2,200 people. Despite recent setbacks in a tough economy, and as its stock now sits around $3 a share, McCann received a compensation package, including cash and stock, worth $2.44 million for fiscal 2012. McCann's brother, Christopher, the company's president and chief operating officer, got a package worth $3.45 million.
Together, the two McCanns have been awarded $27.2 million in compensation over the last five years, according to regulatory filings.
''If you look at highly successful people, they make the same number of mistakes as others, but they recover quickly,'' McCann told The Times in 2008. ''They don't sit around moaning about what they've done wrong.''
McCann added at the time that his biggest pet peeve was ''unempathetic customer service reps.''
However, records and interviews show that as early as 2007, McCann's company was deeply involved in what Congressional investigators and New York regulators would come to regard as a vast swindle, one aimed directly at the company's customers.
In 2009, Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, was concerned enough about suspect online schemes that he began investigating the conduct of a number of retail companies, including 1-800-Flowers.com.
Rockefeller soon laid out the situation for the public:
Customers shop on the Internet for a product -- maybe movie tickets, pizza or flowers. Once they find what they want, they type in their contact information and credit card number and click ''Purchase.'' As they go through the checkout process, Rockefeller explained, an ad from a third-party business tries to trick them into paying to sign up for ''useless'' membership clubs by offering cash-back rebates or discounts. If the customer is lured in amid the confusion, Rockefeller explained, the consumer's consent is taken as a given, and the third-party business already has the credit card number the consumer entered for the initial purchase.
''Most consumers don't realize they have been scammed until months later, when they notice that the club has been charging their credit card $10.95 a month,'' Rockefeller said in a 2009 statement. According to the Rockefeller investigation, 1-800-Flowers.com was a significant player in the illegitimate game. The company, Rockefeller charged, was one of 19 online merchants that were paid more than $10 million apiece by third-party membership club businesses in exchange for exposing their customers to the scheme.
An aide on the Commerce Committee, which conducted the investigation for Rockefeller, said that for merchants like 1-800-Flowers.com, the scheme was easy money, nearly all profit, and damaged their own customers. The aide, who was not authorized to speak publicly, said the enterprise between the merchants and membership club marketers was successful because 1-800-Flowers.com and other retailers were willing to use the brand loyalty and trust they had built up with consumers against them. The customers, the aide said, had confidence that the merchant would not be involved in something like this.
The Rockefeller report included the story of a Massachusetts hospital executive named David Murray who in February 2008 realized he had been enrolled in a membership club called LiveWell, after a purchase on 1-800-Flowers.com several months earlier.
''Do you really think what you did was morally right?'' Murray wrote in an e-mail to 1-800-Flowers.com. ''This is not true and is deceitful.''
Murray went on to ask, ''Is this really something 1-800-Flowers wanted to be associated with?''
Concerns Over Practices
Rockefeller's investigation turned up evidence that ever greater numbers of customers were catching on, and that at least some people within 1-800-Flowers.com were growing worried -- both about the propriety of the practice and the objections from the public.
''As you know,'' a company employee wrote in an internal e-mail included in the report, ''for every one who complains vociferously, there are dozens, even hundreds that do not.''
Any concerns, though, seemed tempered by what the e-mail also noted was the lucrative nature of the arrangement.
The backlash from consumers moved the employee to try to raise a meaningful alarm. ''If we don't take steps to rectify this,'' she wrote of the questionable practice, ''I fear it will continue to have a huge negative impact on the customer experience.'' She continued, ''So I need to raise a major red flag here.''
Meanwhile, 1-800-Flowers.com was pitching its products to Mets Fans.
In June 2009, 1-800-Flowers.com advertised on its Facebook page that it was ''teaming up'' with the Mets to celebrate birthdays, inviting fans to sign up on a special Mets page on its Web site for a chance to have their name displayed on Citi Field's giant video board.
A month earlier, in May 2009, a ''Happy Mother's Day'' message from 1-800-Flowers.com appeared on the video board at Citi Field.
Rockefeller and his committee issued their initial report in November 2009, and McCann's company soon announced that it would end its participation in the practices flagged by the committee.
In a news release announcing the change, McCann said, ''1-800-Flowers.com has a legacy of product innovation and excellent customer service, and everything we do is designed to provide our customers with the greatest value and the most convenience for the special occasions in their lives.''
In New York, the attorney general's inquiry into the matter led to settlements with the third-party businesses and many of the online retailers that had signed on with them as partners.
In December 2010, the attorney general's Bureau of Consumer Frauds and Protection reached a settlement with 1-800-Flowers.com, ending the threat of regulatory action. In its findings against 1-800-Flowers.com, the attorney general's office said the company participated in a scheme that caused many consumers to be ''enrolled in a membership program without their understanding or a conscious intent to be enrolled.''
The attorney general found that 1-800-Flowers.com's practices violated state laws prohibiting repeated fraudulence in the course of business and deceptive acts or practices and false advertising in the conduct of any business.
The company paid the $325,000 settlement, and the money was to be used for consumer education, redress, and the costs and fees of the investigation.
By the end of 2010, President Obama signed a law restricting the ability of online retailers to transfer sensitive billing information to third parties. The law also required the third-party firms to clearly disclose the terms of their online offers and obtain billing information directly from consumers before assuming consent.
Still, those who feel they were swindled remain angry. Lawyers for 1-800-Flowers.com had pressed unsuccessfully to have some of the complaints of the customer in the 2010 lawsuit decided in arbitration. Now that suit, filed in New York, is being combined with cases filed in Connecticut in 2012. Lawyers plan to try to build a class-action racketeering case against 1-800-Flowers.com, the other Web retailers, credit card companies and the third-party companies.
In arguing that 1-800-Flowers.com should be dismissed from the Connecticut cases, lawyers for the company said in an April filing that the plaintiffs had not shown that it had ''actively participated'' in a racketeering enterprise and that none of the plaintiffs had specifically accused it of enrolling them in a membership program by making a purchase at 1-800-Flowers.com.
In its latest quarterly filing to investors, 1-800-Flowers.com said there were ''no assurances'' that additional legal actions related to its former business practices would not be brought.
''Legal matters are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which may be beyond our control,'' the company wrote.
What that could mean to Fred Wilpon and the Mets is largely unclear. The Mets' minority investors, like McCann, were vetted as part of the process of being brought on board. Candidates seeking a slice of a major league team must also fill out lengthy applications dealing with their personal and financial backgrounds as they are examined for approval by the commissioner's office. Those inquiries include disclosing current or past legal issues.
But Mets fans -- who have endured repeated losing seasons, wrenching collapses at the end of once-promising seasons and a front office that has spent much of the last two years reducing the team's payroll -- may be surprised to learn who now owns a share of their beloved squad. And they may experience a different feeling the next time a 1-800-Flowers.com ad goes up on the video screen at Citi Field.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James F. McCann, owner of a Mets minority share and founder of 1-800-Flowers.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1)
James F. McCann's company 1-800-Flowers.com is a frequent advertiser at Citi Field, top. From left, Senator Jay Rockefeller, who led an inquiry into the company's practices, and the Mets owners Saul Katz and Fred Wilpon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
KATHY KMONICEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Ideas for arrangements inspired by teams, including the Mets, are pictured on 1-800-Flowers.com. (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (78%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); DEBIT CARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: 1-800-FLOWERS.COM INC (94%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%)

TICKER: FWC (FRA) (94%); FLWS (NASDAQ) (94%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); NAICS453110 FLORISTS (94%); SIC5992 FLORISTS (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



71 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: A Georgia Main Street Paved in Red Carpet

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
SENOIA, Ga. -- Unlike so many recession-weary towns, Senoia has a bustling Main Street. Dozens of new stores have opened, including a sushi bar, an antiques vendor and an Irish pub. City Hall has been repainted with money from the soaring tax revenues.
The reason? Filmmaking. 
This is the quaint, small town that plays a quaint, small town on television and in the movies. Hollywood filmmakers come here when they need a Mayberry backdrop or a row of mom-and-pop storefronts. The community of 3,300 people, 25 miles south of Atlanta, has been the site of 24 shows and movies, from current hits like ''The Walking Dead'' and ''Drop Dead Diva'' to Southern classics like ''Fried Green Tomatoes'' and ''Driving Miss Daisy.''
With film crews bringing in money and publicity, Senoia (pronounced sen-OY) has avoided the empty downtowns and shrinking tax bases that plague many rural towns. The population has nearly doubled since 2000. Property tax revenues have risen even though the city has lowered its tax rate and the fact that Georgia, over all, has among the nation's highest foreclosure rate.
''It has been like turning on a fire hose of cash,'' said Scott Tigchelaar, the president of Raleigh Studios Atlanta, a division of an international production company.
Senoia did not lure Hollywood on its own. Georgia lawmakers helped, passing lucrative tax credits for filmmakers and promoting the state's cheap labor costs, few unions and access to the world's busiest airport, in Atlanta. The money brought into the state through filming -- including music videos and television commercials and other projects -- has soared to $879 million from $260 million in 2008.
No city took advantage of the Georgia filmmaking bonanza as much as Senoia. The first movie made here was ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' which was released in 1989, and a movie or television show has been filmed nearly each year since, including ''Sweet Home Alabama'' in 2002, ''Meet the Browns'' in 2008 and ''Footloose'' in 2011.
By far the biggest project has been ''The Walking Dead,'' the hit zombie show on AMC that is the highest-rated drama of all time on basic cable channels. In the current season, Senoia plays the fictional town of Woodbury, Ga., a heavily armed haven for zombie survivors. Last season, most of the filming was done at a farm outside town.
Much of life in the real town revolves around the zombie show. Main Street was closed to traffic for 30 days this summer and fall for filming. The city stopped mowing its grass to appear post-apocalyptic. Fake buildings for a bank, travel agency, law firm and bookstore were so realistic that some customers tried to walk in.
Senoia does not charge filmmakers who come to town, but it makes money in other ways. Cast and crew members dine, shop and sometimes live here. Raleigh Studios employs as many as 250 people. And store owners say profits rise by up to 30 percent during filming.
Tourists have come from around the world. Self-proclaimed Walker Stalkers hover off the set for cast members. Keith Boldt, a truck driver from nearby Newnan, Ga., has stayed up until 4 a.m. to watch key scenes being filmed. ''You get the spoilers before they air,'' he said. ''I've met almost every cast member who hasn't been killed off yet.''
To foster tourism, the city built a replica of Hollywood's Walk of Fame, with gold plaques honoring locally made films. Soon there will be a trolley-car tour of the filming sites.
Senoia's slogan (''The perfect setting. For life.'') clarifies that it is a small town doubling as a movie and television set, and not vice versa. But the attention can be overwhelming.
''It feels like living on a film set,'' said Todd Baggarly, owner of Founders Restaurant, whose great-great-grandfather founded the town in 1860. ''One of the biggest cable shows in history films on one block of a small town in Georgia, and it happens to be our town.''
Not long ago, Senoia looked like most hard-hit rural towns. There were only seven stores on Main Street in 2006, compared with 49 today.
The largest landowner is Senoia Enterprises, a development company run by Mr. Tigchelaar of Raleigh Studios. Since 2006, his company has bought and restored more than half of the stores downtown. Using an architecture firm that specializes in historical renovations, the company has rebuilt bars, restaurants and shops as they might have looked in the late 19th century.
The result is a Norman Rockwell setting for the newly rich. Zac Brown, the country music star, owns a restaurant and concert space. There are 4,000-square-foot brownstones with elevators and five bedrooms that sell for $500,000. Developers are also planning a hotel. The goal is to attract empty-nesters from Atlanta and its wealthy suburbs who are drawn by the simplicity of small-town living, with a Hollywood twist.
''We like to say we're 25 miles and 100 years from Atlanta,'' Mr. Tigchelaar said.
Not everyone in town shares that vision. ''It's a double-edged sword,'' said Wayne Peavy, the owner of an antiques store. ''It's good for business. But it's not the small town I moved to.''
Others are embracing the changes. Mr. Baggarly has installed Hollywood props at his restaurant: a white reindeer from ''The Chronicles of Narnia'' film series overlooks the bar, and a bazooka fired by Patrick Swayze is mounted on the wall. ''We're buying velvet ropes,'' he said. ''And of course, there will be a red carpet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top from left, a house from ''Fried Green Tomatoes,'' the ''Driving Miss Daisy'' plaque on the walk of fame, and a photo from ''Walking Dead'' in a coffee shop in Senoia, Ga. Main Street was closed for filming for 30 days this summer and fall.
 Scott Tigchelaar, above, of Raleigh Studios Atlanta. He also runs a company that has restored more than half of the stores downtown. Wayne Peavy, below, said filming is good for business, but Senoia is ''not the small town I moved to.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DUSTIN CHAMBERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MOVIE FILMING (57%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



72 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BRIEFLY: EDUCATION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Two Opposite Education Systems Ranked on Top

BYLINE: By JOYCE LAU

 BODY:
Finland and South Korea given top global ranking
Finland and South Korea, two countries that are almost as far apart in teaching styles as they are geographically, topped a new ranking published last week by Pearson and the Economist Intelligence Unit. 
The Global Index of Cognitive Skills and Educational Attainment, which ranks nations based on a combination of international test scores, literacy and graduation rates, put Finland and South Korea alone in the top category.
''It is hard to find two education systems more different,'' the report said. South Korea emphasizes exams, rote learning, discipline and long hours for students, most of whom also attend private cram schools. Finland has short school days, little homework and a focus on ''helping children understand and apply knowledge, not merely repeat it,'' the report said.
Also in the top 10 were Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Switzerland and Canada. Ireland came in at No. 11, Australia at No. 13, Germany at No. 15, the United States at No. 17, Russia at No. 20 and France at No. 25. China and India, Asia's developing giants, were not ranked. Brazil and Indonesia came in at the bottom of the listing of 40 states and nations. -- JOYCE LAU
Neuroscientists develop easier way to read papers
MiniManuscript, a Web site meant to be a sort of Wikipedia of the academic world, moved out of its beta phase last week and was introduced officially at an event in London. The idea is for registered users to post free summaries of research papers, which will make it easier for both students and researchers to find what they want quickly.
The site was developed by two British neuroscientists: Anna Remington, 30, an autism researcher at Oxford, and Jake Fairnie, 25, a doctoral candidate at University College London. ''We were reading the same papers,'' Dr. Remington said by telephone from London. ''So we'd write summaries, share them and get through them twice as fast. Then we asked, 'Why doesn't everyone do this?'''
One kind of search uses PubMed, a U.S.-based database with 22 million publications, and simply says when and where a paper appeared.
A more detailed search brings up only papers that have MiniManuscript summaries written. Currently, there are several hundred such entries, though the founders expect the number to increase quickly.
As of last week, 55 percent of MiniManuscript's readership was from the United States, followed by 25 percent from China. ''English is the language of the scientific community,'' Dr. Remington said. ''But if you're sorting through this material in a second language, it is a massive investment of time to make it through a 70-page paper, only to realize at the end that it's not relevant to you.'' The site is set up as a business, though the founders say they want to run it as a ''not-just-for-profit'' and aim to keep the information free. -- JOYCE LAU

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (77%); LITERACY RATES (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); HOMEWORK (72%); GRADUATION RATES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); AUTISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (76%); NETHERLANDS (76%); INDIA (75%); SINGAPORE (71%); NEW ZEALAND (71%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (55%); INDONESIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



73 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: TAX PLANNING; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: A Long-Distance Relationship With the I.R.S.

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has never shied away from long-distance relationships. Americans living abroad may still face tax liability back home, and even if they owe nothing, the I.R.S. requires an annual tax return.
Much to the concern of American expatriates, their lawyers and accountants and overseas banks, a law called the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or Fatca, makes even further demands. Fatca calls for foreign financial institutions to file an annual report to the I.R.S., either directly or through its own national tax authority, on each U.S. taxpayer for whom it holds more than $50,000 in assets at the end of the year.
The law also requires account holders to file an I.R.S. form themselves, 8938, detailing their foreign holdings, though American expatriates need file only if their financial assets exceed $200,000 at year's end. To make sure account holders stay in touch, the agency levies a $10,000 penalty for failure to file a required 8938, and any underreported income will be subject to an additional 40 percent penalty. 
Even with the penalties, Fatca is not expected to raise significant revenue for the U.S. Treasury; the Congressional Budget Office forecasts a take of $8.7 billion over 10 years. That is barely a rounding error in an annual budget of more than $3 trillion, and accountants and lawyers treat the estimate with extreme skepticism, anyway.
What Fatca is expected to raise instead of money, tax specialists warn, are confusion and expense. After widespread criticism of the law's complexities from banks and expatriate groups -- American Citizens Abroad warns on its Web site that Fatca will have a ''devastating impact'' -- the I.R.S. announced in October that it would postpone enforcement by one year, to January 2014. The delay will give those affected by the law time to prepare, time they are expected to need.
''Every foreign financial institution -- insurance companies, fund companies, family offices; it isn't just banks -- has to enter into an agreement with the I.R.S. to do an electronic database search to identify Americans,'' said Ian Shane, a tax lawyer at the New York firm Golenbock Eiseman Assor Bell & Peskoe. ''From the moment it first came out, tax lawyers said it was mind-boggling.''
That was in 2010, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis and the recession that accompanied it. Banks were regarded as major culprits in the turmoil and therefore were vulnerable politically, not just financially. It was seen as expedient to enlist them in an effort to heighten tax compliance.
A significant focus of that effort is Americans who keep money overseas, a group that Mr. Shane contends has unfairly been placed near the top of Washington's list of usual suspects.
''The belief is that if you have a foreign bank account, you must be fiddling your taxes,'' he observed. ''That's patently untrue. The vast majority of people with a foreign bank account have it for legitimate reasons. Businessmen have clients in Europe, so they need a euro account, for example. America is a trading nation and a nation of immigrants.''
It is also a nation of lawyers, many of whom are employed by the government. No surprise, then, that the Fatca legislation runs to several hundred pages. Here is the abridged version:
Foreign financial institutions will be required to scour their records for signs that customers are American, like a U.S. address or phone number or instructions to transfer funds to a U.S. bank account. For accounts worth more than $1 million, more rigorous search criteria will be required. Anyone flagged in the search will be asked to provide proof of citizenship and/or residence status, and Americans will have to provide a Social Security number.
The Social Security number of each American account holder, along with the account number, year-end balance and details on income paid into the account as interest or dividends and proceeds from security sales, must be turned over to the I.R.S. according to a timetable that places account holders with big balances at the front of the line: by the end of 2014 for those with $1 million bank balances and by the end of 2015 for accounts of $50,000 to $1 million.
There are deadlines and balance thresholds for other types of accounts, like with brokers, money managers and insurance companies, and for accounts held by entities like corporations and partnerships.
If you are wondering why a financial institution would agree to compile this information for an agency in another country, this is where another penalty comes in. Any payment from an American source to a foreign institution that is not complying with Fatca will be subject to 30 percent withholding, so any bank or other firm that has American customers or does American business may be affected.
Fatca does feature some benign elements, especially for financial small fry: Institutions will not have to report accounts worth less than $50,000, and individuals with less than that sum overseas will not have to file the 8938 form. But anyone with $10,000 abroad still must file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, known as an Fbar, each June 30.
Barbara Angus, a principal in Ernst & Young's U.S. tax department who focuses on international tax, highlights another exception to Fatca that should give a break to many American expatriates: Payments related to retirement plans, either for workers accumulating assets or retirees receiving distributions, are exempt from the reporting requirements. Then there is the one-year enforcement delay, which will forestall headaches for taxpayers. For financial-service companies, however, it is a sign of the enormous task that they are being asked to undertake.
''There are a lot of questions on how each provision needs to be done,'' Ms. Angus said. ''It's very important to have certainty before building changes into information-technology systems. A lot of input is needed from institutions to make those work as seamlessly as possible.''
The input is of money, as well as time. According to one widely quoted estimate, by J.P. Morgan Asset Management, multinational banks will have to shell out $100 million apiece on one-time expenditures merely to prepare systems for complying with Fatca.
There will be ongoing costs, too, of course. Financial institutions may decide to write them off as the price of doing business. It is also possible that they will pass them on to their customers or stop serving Americans altogether, reducing consumer choice.
''Large banks will still take U.S. customers, but some smaller banks could end up saying it's too much trouble,'' said Joseph M. Calianno, leader of the International Technical Tax Practice at Grant Thornton, an American accounting and financial advice firm.
Another potential unintended consequence is damage to U.S. financial markets. A study by BlackRock, an American portfolio-management firm, warned that the withholding requirement could discourage foreign investment in the United States, lest investors suffer a 30 percent haircut when they cash in.
Americans could face adverse consequences from innocent financial dealings, Mr. Shane warned. Businesses of all sorts, not just financial institutions, may shun U.S. companies for fear of running afoul of Fatca, he said. For individuals, certain arcane transactions -- say, transferring a large sum into an escrow account as a down payment on an overseas vacation home -- could cause someone to fall under the Fatca reporting rubric without his or her knowledge.
Perhaps the biggest threat from Fatca will be faced by individuals who ignored reporting requirements -- not of Fatca itself but of its older cousin Fbar, a form that expatriates often ignore, tax specialists say, because it is somewhat obscure and filed separately from tax returns.
When institutions start reporting for Fatca, the I.R.S. is bound to notice account holders who have fallen behind, accidentally or otherwise, in filing their Fbars. Mr. Calianno advises anyone likely to be in that position to consider the Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Initiative, a program that allows late, even negligent, filers to get straight with the I.R.S.
''It's designed to get people who have foreign bank accounts and didn't report them in the past to come in and get compliant,'' he explained. In general, someone who has paid all tax related to income from foreign accounts need only file overdue Fbars to avoid penalties, he said, while those who owe money along with the paperwork will be subject to minimal penalties.
Mr. Shane likewise encourages expatriates and other Americans with overseas accounts to take the initiative in reconciling discrepancies or oversights that may show up once Fatca is up and running.
''See an accountant or lawyer to see what your options are,'' he said. ''You always want to be in a position where you're going to the I.R.S. If the I.R.S comes knocking on your door first, they're going to take a harder line.''
Americans' long-distance relationship with the agency never ends, and if they think the adage ''out of sight, out of mind'' applies, they may want to reconsider.
''A lot of information filed with the I.R.S. doesn't get looked at,'' Mr. Shane said. ''This will get looked at.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TAX WITHHOLDING (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLENBOCK EISEMAN ASSOR BELL & PESKOE LLP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



74 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: TAX PLANNING; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2385 words

HEADLINE: Few Places to Hide as Taxes Trend Higher Worldwide

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
Death and taxes are the only certainties in life, if you believe Benjamin Franklin. Had he been around today, he might have observed that taxes also have become a great uncertainty in life.
Taxes on earnings, investment income, sales and a few other things have gone up already in many countries, and further increases are possible, including a huge one in the United States.
Another source of unease and doubt for taxpayers is a trend toward increases of other sorts: in scrutiny by revenue authorities, reporting requirements for individuals and businesses, and legislation to close tax code loopholes.
International taxpayers -- expatriates and others whose personal or professional lives extend across borders -- may find conditions particularly challenging. Dealing with a changing tax regime is tough; dealing with more than one even more so. Not only that, but some authorities are focusing more keenly on foreigners or on their own citizens living elsewhere. On the bright side, certain countries still treat foreigners better than their own citizens. 
Navigating a landscape that may have been familiar but is suddenly a treacherous terra incognita is not easy, tax advisers warn, but it can be done as long as taxpayers are well prepared, take care to avoid mistakes and resign themselves not to go too far.
''There is no magic solution, no one structure that will work,'' said Gavin Leckie, a wealth adviser and specialist in expatriate financial issues for J.P. Morgan Private Bank. ''A lot of this is a defensive exercise. Make sure to organize yourself so that you've anticipated problems and taken steps to protect yourself.''
There is much, existing and potential, to protect yourself from. The biggest tax-related question mark -- several hundred billion dollars big -- concerns the fiscal cliff. That is the term coined by another famous Ben -- Bernanke, the U.S. Federal Reserve chairman -- to describe the anticipated destination of the American economy if an extensive mix of tax increases and government spending cuts goes ahead as scheduled next month.
Numerous increases are on the books or heading there in Europe, including on income and/or value-added taxes in Spain, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands and France, where a 75 percent income tax rate on income exceeding &#x20ac;1 million, or $1.28 million, is coming in 2013. Bucking the trend, Britain is about to lower its top income tax rate to 45 percent from 50 percent -- after having raised it from 40 percent.
The European Commission has proposed, and 11 euro zone members support, a tax on financial transactions. Ireland introduced a tax on insurance premiums this year, the Dutch plan to raise their tax on premiums in 2013, and France hopes to raise taxes on rental income and capital gains from vacation homes of domestic or foreign owners.
If the expanding tax bite around the region makes you want to cry in your beer, being in France could cost you more on that score, too. The beer tax is due to rise 160 percent.
Conditions in Asia are comparatively placid, but that region has not been immune from the trend. Attempts to raise the value-added tax in Japan have failed in the past, along with governments that made them, but a doubling of the V.A.T., called the Japan Consumption Tax, was approved in August.
''Quite a few countries are trying to increase tax revenue,'' said Kevin Cornelius, a partner in Geneva for the Human Capital Practice at Ernst & Young. ''The question is who's raising taxes the slowest. I can't remember as much tax legislation going through as we've seen in the last 24 months.''
Americans would welcome at least one more piece of legislation. At press time, negotiations were continuing in Congress on a compromise to avoid going over the fiscal cliff. The consensus among pundits in Washington and on Wall Street is that one will be reached that preserves present rates on middle-class taxpayers and perhaps raises them on high earners.
If no deal emerges, tax rates will increase on income, capital gains and dividends. Employee payroll taxes are also scheduled to rise, and surcharges are due to be introduced on earned income and investment income of well-off individuals to defray the costs of the health care overhaul.
The increases on both sides of the Atlantic are intended to close yawning fiscal deficits after several years of heavy spending and tepid economic growth, but economists and financial advisers view them as a triple threat to taxpayers: out-of-pocket costs, of course, and the prospect of stunting future economic growth and limiting investment returns.
A November report by the Congressional Budget Office predicted a recession in 2013 if the fiscal cliff tax increases and spending cuts go through. Bill Gross, a portfolio manager and widely followed authority on the influence of economic and government policy on financial markets, predicted in a recent Bloomberg News interview that whichever way the dilemma was resolved would take about one percentage point off the U.S. economy and send growth ''closer to the zero line.''
The relationship is not perfect, but lower tax rates have tended to coincide with stronger economic growth in America and Europe, said Roger Ibbotson, a professor in the Yale School of Management. He noted, for example, that a multidecade trend of reducing rates and closing loopholes in Europe ''has been a very positive thing for the economy.''
Positive enough that the tax rate increases of the past few years have raised doubts among economists about Europe's growth prospects. The package of increases introduced in France by President François Hollande, especially the 75 percent income tax rate, has attracted outright scorn.
''It's perhaps the most foolish set of tax policies under discussion in all of Europe,'' said J.D. Foster, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation. ''You just have to laugh and ask whether he was elected for the sole purpose of destroying the French Republic. Everyone says they want a growth agenda, then everything they do harms growth.''
Because the stock market is seen as a barometer of economic progress, share prices also move inversely to tax rates, Mr. Ibbotson said, though the relationship is fuzzier because investors tend to take tax changes into account well before they are enacted.
''There's usually quite a bit of discussion beforehand, and the market can react before the event itself,'' he said.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of large American companies fell as much as 6 percent in the eight trading days after the Nov. 6 presidential elections as investors began to focus on the small but growing possibility that continued gridlock in Washington would produce no deal to prevent the fiscal cliff measures. Stocks that have had strong rallies suffered steeper declines, most notably Apple, whose shares fell from about $583 to $506.
Concern about the fiscal cliff might even have reached a galaxy far, far away. Media reports of Disney's acquisition of George Lucas's Lucasfilm production company noted that the tax liability on Mr. Lucas's estimated $2 billion capital gain would drop substantially if the deal closed in 2012.
The decline in U.S. stocks has been particularly noticeable in companies that pay big dividends. Barclays Capital pointed out in a research note that two of the three sectors hit hardest in the first half of November, utilities and telecommunications, had the highest dividend yields. Tax rates are scheduled to go up far more on dividends in January than on other income.
Not only that, but history suggests that if dividend taxes are raised, fewer American companies will pay dividends and instead will use their earnings in other ways. Data from S.&P. Dow Jones Indices show that the number of companies paying dividends held fairly stable during periods when the highest tax rate was the same on dividend income as on long-term capital gains, as in the past decade or in the mid-1980s through late 1990s. In between those periods, when dividends were taxed at higher rates than capital gains, the number of dividend-paying companies fell sharply.
That might not happen this time around, a study by WisdomTree Investments, a provider of exchange-traded funds, suggests. The study notes that dividend payments as a proportion of corporate earnings have been declining for decades, so the effect of higher tax rates could be muted.
American investors worried about rising tax rates might consider selling stocks in which they have large unrealized gains, investment advisers say. After the selling wave in early November, however, and with the outcome of fiscal cliff talks in Congress still unknown, it is hard to gauge whether that would be better than hanging on until 2013 or not acting at all.
''Things could be radically different a week or two from now,'' said Adam von Poblitz, head of estate planning for Citi Private Bank. The uncertainty ''has put a lot of clients in a state of paralysis,'' he observed. ''If people knew that XYZ were going to happen, they might not like it, but they would know how to proceed.''
One tactic for well-off individuals that Mr. von Poblitz considers a surer thing involves giving money away rather than making it. While attention has been focused on income and investment taxes, he notes that the tax rate on gifts is also due to rise in 2013, to 55 percent from 35 percent, payable by the giver. Perhaps more important, the lifetime amount that can be given tax-free is due to fall to $1 million from $5.12 million.
''There is a huge incentive to get gifting in by December 31,'' he said. ''Use it or lose it. That's really the hot topic in trusts and estates.''
For Americans who are unlikely to give or receive millions, some simple maneuvers can limit tax liability if rate increases go through as planned and cause little harm if they do not. While the typical year-end strategy is to push back income and bring expenses forward, Joyce Franklin, a financial planner in Larkspur, California, points out that this is not a typical year end.
''Many of the traditional planning ideas are reversed for 2012'' for people with high incomes, she advises clients on her Web site. ''In 2012, you'll want to accelerate income and defer deductions,'' such as for business income, charitable contributions, and state income tax and property tax payments.
A rise in rates is not the only unpleasant matter that taxpayers must contend with. Tax lawyers, accountants and bankers highlight a global game of gotcha being played by revenue authorities.
Taxpayers are being asked to provide more detailed information about financial accounts. Americans living or doing business abroad are conspicuous targets in this effort, and on the off chance that they will be less than forthcoming, the Internal Revenue Service is asking foreign financial institutions and tax agencies to join the cause.
Elsewhere, vehicles that individuals and families use to shelter income and assets from tax, like trusts, corporations and foundations, are being examined more closely and critically. In certain cases, laws are amended to neutralize the effectiveness of tax-avoidance methods soon after they are devised. Also, foreign visitors' claims of nonresidence for tax purposes are being treated more skeptically.
''We've seen a huge amount of tax scrutiny,'' said Mr. Cornelius at Ernst & Young. ''Authorities are more aggressive in pursuing individuals. There's more sharing of information across borders. That's going to continue.''
Gregory Jones, head of tax for KPMG on the Isle of Man, warns that such a climate demands that taxpayers treat any strategy they might contemplate with great circumspection, because that is how the authorities will treat it.
''People have to be conscious of whether whatever they do will hold up to scrutiny,'' Mr. Jones said. ''Eventually, anything you do will have to be put on the table and explained.''
One way to get around elevated tax rates and scrutiny is to get around. While international cooperation and efforts to collect more tax are intensifying, many jurisdictions maintain a tradition of hospitality and generosity toward foreigners and their money. These days, Mr. Cornelius said, governments ''are showing an intent to differentiate themselves from the French'' by cutting special deals to limit taxation of wealthy foreigners who move there.
Those who earn very good money, but nothing spectacular, will not be able to rewrite tax rules, but the ones already on the books in some countries make them attractive places to relocate.
''In Europe you tend to find people exploiting better regimes, moving to countries to get better rates,'' Mr. Jones said. ''Some countries give incentives to get senior workers to come.''
Examples include the Netherlands, Ireland and Britain, and the inducements typically include an ability to use legal structures like offshore trusts or companies to shelter capital and investment income.
But because such vehicles are frowned upon elsewhere, Mr. Jones urges great caution -- and perhaps some reference books and a map -- before packing your bags.
''If I'm advising a client to go abroad for tax reasons, there are a number of countries I wouldn't send them to, like Germany and France,'' he said. ''You're better off in the U.K. or Monaco.''
In other parts of the world, Canada allows new residents to shelter foreign assets for five years, he added, and Hong Kong and Singapore are excellent locations in Asia, though more for corporations than individuals.
As helpful as these tax regimes are, some foreign residents may be tempted to get creative and bend a country's legal system to their own advantage. Mr. Jones would urge them to reconsider.
Mr. Leckie, at J.P. Morgan, cautions present and future expatriates to be clear on the rules that can work against them, too. Certain retirement and savings plans that confer tax advantages back home may not qualify elsewhere, generating an unexpected tax burden, he points out.
''You need to anticipate what the issues might be,'' Mr. Leckie said. ''People are busy, they move to a new job or see a new business opportunity in a new country without being aware of these issues. People used to take a more laissez-faire attitude. They really need to watch it and make sure they're not caught by these increasingly complicated tax rules.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TRENDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); EURO ZONE (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FINLAND (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



75 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4895 words

HEADLINE: Lines Blur as Texas Gives Industries a Bonanza

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Lisa Schwartz and Lauren D'Avolio contributed research.

 BODY:
DALLAS -- The Preston Hollow neighborhood has been home to many of Texas' rich and powerful -- George and Laura Bush, Mark Cuban, T. Boone Pickens, Ross Perot. So it is hardly surprising that a recent political fund-raiser was held there on the back terrace of a 20,000-square-foot home overlooking lush gardens with life-size bronze statues of the host's daughters.
The guest of honor was Gov. Rick Perry, but the man behind the event was not one of the enclave's boldface names. He was a tax consultant named G. Brint Ryan.
Mr. Ryan's specialty is helping clients like ExxonMobil and Neiman Marcus secure state and local tax breaks and other business incentives. It is a good line of work in Texas. 
Under Mr. Perry, Texas gives out more of the incentives than any other state, around $19 billion a year, an examination by The New York Times has found. Texas justifies its largess by pointing out that it is home to half of all the private sector jobs created over the last decade nationwide. As the invitation to the fund-raiser boasted: ''Texas leads the nation in job creation.''
Yet the raw numbers mask a more complicated reality behind the flood of incentives, the examination shows, and raise questions about who benefits more, the businesses or the people of Texas.
Along with the huge job growth, the state has the third-highest proportion of hourly jobs paying at or below minimum wage. And despite its low level of unemployment, Texas has the 11th-highest poverty rate among states.
''While economic development is the mantra of most officials, there's a question of when does economic development end and corporate welfare begin,'' said Dale Craymer, the president of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, a group supported by business that favors incentives programs.
In a state that markets itself as ''wide open for business,'' the lines are often blurred between decision makers and beneficiaries, according to interviews with dozens of state and local officials and corporate representatives. The government in many instances is relying on businesses and consultants like Mr. Ryan for suggestions on what incentives to grant and which companies should receive them, as well as on other factors that directly affect public spending and budgets, the interviews show.
Mr. Ryan does not claim to be neutral on where the money should go. ''It's widely known that I represent a lot of taxpayers,'' he said in an interview. ''I have client relationships with people who hopefully, if they invest in Texas, they'll receive incentives.''
Granting corporate incentives has become standard operating procedure for state and local governments across the country. The Times investigation found that the governments collectively give incentives worth at least $80 billion a year.
The free flow of tax breaks and subsidies in Texas makes it particularly fertile ground to examine these economic development deals and the fundamental trade-off behind them: the more states give to businesses, the less they have available in the short term to spend on basic services, a calculation made more stark by the recession.
To help balance its budget last year, Texas cut public education spending by $5.4 billion -- a significant decrease considering that it already ranked 11th from the bottom among all states in per-pupil financing, according to recent data from the Census Bureau. Yet highly profitable companies like Dow Chemical and Texas Instruments continue to enjoy hefty discounts on their school tax bills through one of the state's economic development programs.
In the Manor school district, which comprises the town and part of Austin, Samsung has been awarded more than $231 million in incentives from state and local officials. But the recent budget cuts have left the district with crowded classes and fewer programs.
Mr. Perry, who took office at the end of 2000, has been a longtime proponent of lowering taxes. He said in an interview that companies could put the money to better use than the government and would spend it in ways that would create jobs and help Texans.
''Facebook, eBay, Apple -- all of those within the last two years have announced major expansions in Texas,'' Mr. Perry said. ''They're coming because it is given, it is covenant, in these boardrooms across America, that our tax structure, regulatory climate and legal environment are very positive to those businesses.''
He acknowledged that the state's job growth was not erasing persistent poverty, saying that ''we are going to have people that fall through the cracks.'' He said creating jobs was the best way to help Texans, who ''don't want government assistance when they can do it themselves.''
But relying on companies does not always turn out well. When Amazon set up a distribution center outside Dallas, it received incentives from the state. Six years later, when the company got into a tax dispute with the state, it shut the warehouse, which employed as many as 2,000 people during its peak season.
Nationwide, a whole industry of consultants has grown up around state efforts to lure companies with incentives. Companies like Ernst & Young, Deloitte and Automatic Data Processing, a payroll company, have divisions dedicated to helping companies search for the best deals.
Mr. Ryan's Dallas-based firm, Ryan LLC, operates in 27 states and seven countries and represents numerous Fortune 500 companies. Texas alone is a big source of business for Mr. Ryan, who has won tax refunds of more than $20 million each for ExxonMobil and Raytheon. This year, he sought similar amounts for Verizon, Freescale Semiconductor and several other companies, according to state documents obtained through an open records request.
At the same time, Mr. Ryan has become one of the state's most generous political donors. He co-founded a political action committee last year that supported Mr. Perry's bid for the Republican presidential nomination and donated $250,000.
Even as business leaders press local governments to give out more incentives, they warn against requiring too much in return.
In Travis County, which includes Austin, commissioners recently passed new rules for companies that receive tax abatements. One requires paying employees $11 an hour, an amount the county considers to be a living wage.
The rules had been contested by the business community. ''The more stipulations you put into an agreement, the more complicated it becomes and the less competitive we become,'' Gary Farmer, a local business leader who runs an insurance company, told the county commissioners at a hearing. ''We're concerned about including a living wage into the policy, as we believe that could have a chilling effect on certain companies.''
The Money Starts Flowing
When Mr. Perry became governor in 2000, Texas was not a major player in the incentives game. He quickly got his first taste during a bidding war among states when Boeing was hunting for a new location for its headquarters.
Texas ultimately lost to Illinois, which awarded Boeing $52.5 million in incentives, but the episode was a turning point. ''We came back in here after we lost that,'' Mr. Perry said, ''and we analyzed our economic development efforts, and that's when we started making some changes.''
Mr. Perry got the money flowing through two new cash funds created to recruit businesses. One, the Texas Enterprise Fund, awarded more than $410 million over eight years, according to the governor's office, and the recipients said they would create more than 54,000 jobs. The fund requires companies that do not meet their job targets to return incentive money.
The state has also embraced a popular program that establishes enterprise zones where companies can receive refunds on some taxes they pay in exchange for moving there. The exemption has added up to big money for retailers like Walmart. Not coincidentally, the company has opened stores in similar enterprise zones across the country.
Walmart owed some of its other tax savings to Mr. Ryan, who counted the retailer among his earliest clients in the 1990s. Once an accounting firm, Ryan LLC transformed itself in recent years into a powerhouse focused on corporate tax breaks.
Mr. Ryan is a familiar presence at the state comptroller's office in Austin, which must sign off on many tax breaks. He is known there for his laser focus and forceful negotiating skills. ''It's gloves-off, full-frontal assault,'' said a former official, who requested anonymity because of state confidentiality rules.
Mr. Ryan agrees that he is aggressive, saying that ''guys like me are all that stand between the government fleecing taxpayers.'' He has at times filed lawsuits over tax rules he does not like, including one against the head of the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
In one of his most lucrative deals, Mr. Ryan in 2006 helped Texas Instruments win tens of millions of dollars in tax refunds, according to the comptroller's office. Ryan LLC often gets to keep around 30 percent of its clients' awards, according to former employees.
That same year, Mr. Ryan was a top donor to the campaign of the comptroller at the time, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, personally giving $250,000, according to campaign finance records. Over the course of Ms. Strayhorn's tenure, Mr. Ryan, his employees and his company's PAC would donate nearly $3 million, including when the comptroller ran for governor, the records show. He and his employees have made campaign contributions to the current comptroller, Susan Combs, totaling more than $600,000.
Ms. Strayhorn declined to comment, and a representative for Ms. Combs said the donations did not affect her decisions.
Since 2000, Mr. Ryan and his wife, Amanda, have contributed over $4 million to a variety of state officials and political causes, including the governor. Mr. Perry declined to comment on Mr. Ryan, but at a local event in 2010 he called him ''the type of visionary that every community wants to have,'' according to The Abilene Reporter-News.
Mr. Ryan said that he gave to candidates in many states and that his donations brought extra scrutiny, not favorable treatment.
Others see it differently. ''When you give money to a state regulator who you appear before, there are potential conflicts of interest,'' said Craig McDonald, the executive director of Texans for Public Justice, a liberal watchdog group. ''And Texas law is way too weak in allowing those conflicts to exist.''
Mr. Ryan set his own sights on public office in 2009, running for the Dallas City Council on a platform that pushed cutting public spending. Simultaneously, Mr. Ryan was pursuing state aid for his own company, applying for an enterprise zone designation for his business.
Mr. Ryan lost the race but won the incentive. ''In these tough economic times, our city officials must use every tool available to ensure job growth and expand the tax base,'' he said of the award in a news release.
Mr. Perry has made corporate recruitment a hallmark of his administration. The governor frequently makes trips to cities like Chicago, New York and San Francisco to lure prospective businesses.
During a visit to San Diego in June, he proudly told local officials that about a third of the companies moving to Texas were from California, said Ruben Barrales, the chief executive of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce.
''Governor Perry is here quite a bit,'' Mr. Barrales said. ''He meets with companies. He's letting people know if they're interested in further growth, Texas will greet them with open arms. He's not very shy about it.''
Asked if he had qualms about taking jobs from other states, Mr. Perry said, ''Competition is what drives this country.''
A nonprofit group called TexasOne recommends potential businesses to the governor and then pays for his travel and other expenses during the recruiting trips. The group is financed by large corporations like Shell and AT&T, as well as by consultants like Ryan LLC.
The governor's office allocates the awards, which state records show amount to millions of dollars each year. In the enterprise zone program, 82 of the 222 awards granted from March 2008 to June 2012 went to companies represented by Mr. Ryan's firm, according to public records provided by the governor's office. The list included General Motors, Tyson Foods and the German chemical giant BASF.
Until recently, the cash incentives were overseen in Mr. Perry's office by a top aide, Roberto De Hoyos. In September, Mr. De Hoyos took a new job -- at Ryan LLC.
Companies Gain, Schools Lose
Lines of new students show up each August at the public schools in Manor. The town is mostly rural, with fields of hay and cattle in every direction. Some of the students' families came to double up with relatives or friends, others were pushed outward by Austin's gentrification.
Downtown Manor consists of a couple of blocks lined with spots like Ramos Cocina and a smoke-filled convenience store. There are few doctors and no real place to buy groceries.
About six miles away, a fabrication plant for the South Korean company Samsung looms over one of Manor's elementary schools, a symbol of corporate interests juxtaposed with a pillar of public spending. The complex, which makes memory chips for smartphones and other products, includes some of the largest buildings in the area: one covers 1.6 million square feet, or about nine football fields.
Since Mr. Perry took office, companies have seen a drop in their school property taxes because of a special incentives program, as well as an across-the-board cut in the school tax rate. The recession has made the squeeze all the more difficult for schools.
In the Manor district, spending shrank by about $540 per student this year, according to the Equity Center, an advocacy group for Texas schools. The cuts came even as school enrollment has nearly tripled since 2000.
The cracks in financing were on display this summer, as families filled a school cafeteria to register for a prekindergarten program with shortened days. For parents like Tommy and Melissa Sifuentes, the cutback means they have to leave work early or hire a baby sitter. ''It's harder,'' said Ms. Sifuentes, who is still grateful that her son will learn socialization skills at school.
About 80 percent of Manor's students are low-income, according to the E3 Alliance, a nonprofit group in Austin that focuses on education. For about a third of the 8,000 students, English is a second language.
In 2005, Manor's school board gave Samsung eight years of tax abatements worth $112 million as part of the company's incentives package for its fabrication plant. Under the special incentives program, known as Chapter 313, school boards approve tax abatements for companies. The state then reimburses the district for the amounts they give up.
In many districts, the awards were granted after little review. Robert Schneider, a member of Austin's school board, said the district was nonchalant when it gave an abatement to Hewlett-Packard in 2006.
''The board took it as 'we don't lose in this deal,' because we knew we were going to get reimbursed by the state,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''I can tell you there wasn't any analysis done that said, 'Ten, 15 years from now, they will be here and we'll get such and such out of it.' ''
School boards statewide have approved abatements worth at least $1.9 billion through the program, according to the comptroller's office. Although the districts are not paying for the abatements themselves, budget experts point out that the reimbursements come from the state's general fund, which like most state treasuries is running low.
In Texas, tax revenues for schools took a direct hit when Mr. Perry created a commission in 2005 to evaluate the state's tax system. The State Supreme Court was questioning districts' property tax rates and warned of a school shutdown if legislators did not intervene. The tax rates had been criticized for years by businesses and residents, but some districts countered that they could not afford to cut them without additional state financing.
Mr. Perry turned to John Sharp, a Democrat and former comptroller, to lead the commission. At the time, Mr. Sharp worked for Ryan LLC. The commission called for districts to cut school property taxes by around one-third. To make up for some of the lost revenue, it recommended adding a business tax, as well as increasing some sales taxes.
''I did what I thought was the best for the state of Texas,'' said Mr. Sharp, adding that his position at Ryan LLC did not affect his decisions. ''We saved the state of Texas from complete collapse of the school system, and I'm very proud of that.'' Mr. Sharp left Ryan last year to become the chancellor of Texas A&M University.
In 2006, the Legislature largely adopted the commission's proposals and required the state to give districts billions of dollars to allow time for the business tax to make up the difference.
Some six years later, things have not worked out as planned.
The business tax has not yielded anywhere near what Mr. Sharp's panel projected, and the state has cut its aid to the districts by $5.4 billion. A spokeswoman for Mr. Perry noted that one of the state's cash incentive funds was also cut back.
Leslie Whitworth, who oversees the curriculum in Manor, said that the district was doing its best to make do with less, but that ''it wears on people, the constant crisis, the constant increases in students and constant pressure on budgets.''
Among other things, the cuts have meant overcrowding across Texas: the number of classrooms over the state's student limit nearly quadrupled last year.
Some companies recognize the trade-off. Daimler, the German maker of the Mercedes-Benz, accepts incentives in the United States but tries to avoid ones that come out of school budgets, said David Trebing, who manages the company's relationship with local governments. ''We want to make sure they have enough money for their schools,'' Mr. Trebing said. ''Our workers send their kids there.''
Even members of the Austin Technology Council, which includes Samsung, identified an educated work force as among their biggest concerns for the area, according to a recent survey.
Of the $231 million in incentives Samsung received, it donated $1 million back to Manor for a scholarship fund. The company also mentors district students.
Catherine Morse, Samsung Austin's general counsel, said the abatements from the Manor school board were crucial because of the company's expensive machinery. Samsung also received $10.8 million from Mr. Perry's cash fund, but Ms. Morse said the money had not swung the decision. ''It was more like it showed respect,'' she said.
Ms. Morse noted that Samsung was still the county's largest taxpayer and that locating the facility in Texas had been a tough sell inside the company. ''It was very unpopular to take jobs out of South Korea,'' she said.
Samsung said it had created 2,500 jobs on its payroll and 2,000 more for contract employees. Ms. Morse said that 495 of those on its payroll lived in the Manor school district. The company is currently seeking additional incentives for a $4 billion retooling of its facility, though it is not expected to add many jobs.
Amazon Plays Hardball
Tarik Carlton gathered with other workers in February 2011 to hear the bad news: Amazon was shutting its distribution center in Irving, where he loaded trucks for $12.75 an hour.
Business had been strong, but the online retailer did not want to pay a $269 million tax bill from the state comptroller. A standoff with the state ensued, and Amazon laid off the workers. ''They didn't have our interests in heart, truth be told,'' Mr. Carlton said.
Amazon opened the distribution facility in 2005 in Irving, near Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, and local officials awarded the company tax breaks on its inventory.
Positions at the warehouse included product pickers, dock crews and truck loaders. The employees were typically on the young side, and some had served in the military. The warehouse churned through workers because many could not meet the quota of products they were supposed to move each day, according to Frankie Lloyd, who helped Amazon find temporary workers to fill many of the jobs.
''It's all about what you can do physically,'' Ms. Lloyd said. ''Like manufacturing, but without the great pay.''
The distribution business grew as manufacturing moved overseas and online shopping boomed. It is big in the Dallas area because two main train lines run here from Long Beach, Calif., where goods arrive from Asia.
The work is highly physical. One Amazon worker wore a step counter that logged five miles during one shift, according to Mr. Carlton, who only recently found a new job. He was among 12 former Amazon workers, including two warehouse managers, who agreed to be interviewed.
There was no air-conditioning in the warehouse, and Mr. Carlton and others said the temperature could reach 115 degrees. They said it was difficult to take breaks given the production quotas.
The pay was typically $11 to $15 an hour, Ms. Lloyd said. Amazon gave out small shares of stock and some bonuses, but the amounts were minimal, she said.
Amazon said it had been working to upgrade its warehouses, which it calls fulfillment centers. The company has installed air-conditioning in all its centers over the past year, said Dave Clark, the vice president for global customer fulfillment.
Mr. Clark said workers always received breaks, and sometimes free ice cream when the facilities did not have air-conditioning. He said the quotas were akin to ''expectations that go along with every job, mine included.''
''I really do think these jobs get a bad rap,'' Mr. Clark said. ''They're great jobs. They're safe jobs.''
Mr. Carlton said he had no idea the company was being partly subsidized. ''If you give them money, I think more should be expected,'' he said, adding that Amazon should have been required to hire more people to handle the heavy workload.
John Bonnot, the director of business recruitment for the Irving Chamber of Commerce, said the city did not impose wage or benefit requirements on companies that received incentives. Irving had required that Amazon create only 10 jobs to receive the tax break.
Mr. Bonnot said Amazon ''would have nothing but praise'' for the original assistance from the state and the city, which outsources its economic development to the local chamber.
Things began to slide downhill in late 2010 when the state comptroller, Ms. Combs, demanded that Amazon pay the $269 million sales tax bill. The retailer had never charged its Texas customers the tax, giving it an advantage over on-the-ground competitors.
The company hired three powerful advocates with ties to the governor, according to state lobbyist disclosure records. One, Luis Saenz, had been the director of Mr. Perry's political operation. Days after the warehouse closed, Mr. Perry said he disagreed with the comptroller's decision to demand the taxes.
As it was battling with the comptroller, Amazon began negotiating with the Legislature, which was debating whether online businesses should be required to charge sales tax. The company told lawmakers that it would create up to 6,000 jobs in exchange for delaying sales tax collections, similar to a compromise it had struck in states like South Carolina and Tennessee.
The lawmaker with the most power in the decision was John Otto, a Republican member of the Texas House of Representatives. Like all Texas legislators, Mr. Otto's government job is part time. He also works at Ryan LLC -- a job that is not disclosed on his legislative Web site.
Mr. Otto drafted legislation that said online retailers like Amazon would not have to charge sales tax as long as it did not have distribution facilities in Texas. By then, the company had already shut the Irving warehouse.
Mr. Otto and Mr. Saenz declined to comment about the legislation. Amazon would not comment on its negotiations with Texas.
In July, Amazon began collecting sales tax from customers in Texas after the comptroller agreed to release the company from most of its $269 million bill. The company has also promised to open new distribution facilities and hire 2,500 workers. Amazon will owe the state a $1 million penalty if it fails to deliver.
The math on the new deal angers former Amazon workers, especially those who are still unemployed. For Texas to give up more than $250 million in tax revenues in exchange for 2,500 jobs amounts to about $100,000 per job. Most distribution workers are paid $20,000 to $30,000 a year. The rest benefits the company's bottom line, which generally increases executive bonuses and shareholder returns.
King White, a consultant who helps Amazon choose locations, would not comment on the online retailer but said that companies in general had come to view incentives as entitlements. ''Everybody thinks they deserve something,'' Mr. White said. '' 'If I'm creating jobs, what's in it for me?' ''
The deal on the sales tax did not require Amazon to reopen the Irving facility. That touched off the latest state competition to win over Amazon.
Last month, the city of Schertz beat out neighboring San Antonio for one of Amazon's warehouses. The company is currently in negotiations with Coppell, outside of Dallas, about an additional center. Like Schertz, Coppell has offered Amazon a deal to keep a part of the sales tax it collects there, among other incentives.
If Amazon accepts, it will be located near Irving and many of its former workers. Sharon Sylvas, 47, had moved from Kansas seven years ago to help Amazon set up the Irving facility. She lives nearby in a one-bedroom apartment with her partner, daughter and two grandchildren.
After Amazon closed, she was out of a job for over a year. With limited options, Ms. Sylvas took a temporary position in October at another company's distribution center. It is a tougher job than the one at Amazon, and it pays less. For $11 an hour, Ms. Sylvas moves heavy inventory and other items.
She said that if Amazon returned to the area, she would work there again, despite the rigors of warehouse jobs. ''It's real miserable,'' Ms. Sylvas said. ''But you do it to make a living.''
Both Player and Referee
For the past few months, a commission created by the Texas Legislature has been taking a broad look at the state's economic development efforts. It will report back in January with recommendations. Four members of the commission are specifically focused on evaluating the state's cash grants and the school tax abatement programs. This means that companies in Texas have a lot at stake in the panel's work.
So does at least one of the commissioners: G. Brint Ryan.
He was appointed to the commission by the state's lieutenant governor, David Dewhurst, who has received more than $150,000 in campaign donations from Mr. Ryan.
At a meeting in mid-September, the panel invited business representatives to testify. Among them was Ms. Morse, the general counsel at Samsung Austin, who urged the commission to continue the school property tax program that benefits her company in the Manor district.
During Ms. Morse's testimony, it went unmentioned that Samsung is a Ryan client. Ryan LLC had helped the company gain designation as an enterprise zone in 2010, enabling it to receive sales tax refunds from the state on many of its purchases, according to documents obtained by The Times under a public records request.
Mr. Ryan said the commission had never asked him whom he represents.
No representatives from Texas schools spoke at the hearing. But Mr. Ryan said in an interview that school financing and poverty could best be addressed by emphasizing economic activity. He noted his own humble beginnings. ''Frankly, I never got one single government handout,'' he said.
Over the years, of course, Mr. Ryan has profited by helping many companies obtain checks from the government. In at least one instance, he was more eager to get the money than his client was.
The client, a computer chip maker called Advanced Micro Devices, had hired Mr. Ryan's firm to review its books. But when the firm found what it believed would be a way to save more than $30 million in taxes, the chip maker decided it was not worth pursing. Ryan LLC responded by suing its client, saying AMD owed it to the firm to seek the money. Ryan LLC would have received a cut of the savings.
AMD declined to comment on the case, which was settled last year. But in a deposition contained in the court filings, a representative of the chip maker described numerous e-mails and phone calls by Mr. Ryan, who was trying to persuade the company to file for the refunds.
''It's continuing evidence that they've placed their interest above our own and continued to press this issue,'' the representative said. The company said Ryan LLC's behavior ''bordered on harassment.''
At one point, Mr. Ryan wrote to the chip maker's chief financial officer. ''At stake is tens of millions of dollars in tax recovery and future tax savings on an issue I have WON for other fabs in Texas,'' he said, referring to fabrication facilities.
The company's choice not to seek the tax break, Mr. Ryan said in a deposition, was an ''irrational and unreasonable decision.''
United States of Subsidies: This is the second article in a series examining business incentives and their impact on jobs and local economies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: G. Brint Ryan, left, and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS JENKINS/BIG SPRING HERALD) (A1)
LEFT HANGING: A playground in the Manor school district in Texas. In the background is a plant owned by Samsung, which has been awarded more than $231 million in incentives.
LESLIE WHITWORTH, school official in Manor, Tex. (A18)
LAID OFF BY AMAZON Sharon Sylvas, 47, moved from Kansas seven years ago to help Amazon set up a distribution center, left, in Irving, Tex. After the company closed the center in 2011 during a dispute with the state over collecting sales taxes, Ms. Sylvas was out of a job for over a year.
 STRUGGLING IN MANOR: Downtown Manor, Tex., where about 80 percent of the students are low-income. School spending shrank by about $540 per student this year, and classrooms are overcrowded. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); FUNDRAISING (77%); SCULPTURE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); POOR POPULATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (66%); POVERTY RATES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (88%); MARK CUBAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (89%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



76 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Some Analysts Doubt Dire Predictions on Tax Increase Fallout

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
As anxious investors assess their portfolios in light of expected tax increases on investment income, hedge fund manager Douglas Kass has a simple message: Relax.
Mr. Kass, the founder of Seabreeze Partners Management, thinks much of the investing world has overestimated how hard the markets and investors would be hit if tax rates on dividends and capital gains rise at the end of the year, as the White House has proposed.
Mr. Kass can look for support to several economists who have studied past changes in tax rates and found that the shifts had less of an impact on investor behavior than was initially expected. 
That's largely because a dwindling number of investors are subject to the taxes on investment gains that are set to rise at the end of the year, with most stocks held in accounts that are exempt from taxes.
For example, only 14.7 percent of American households have mutual funds in taxable accounts, down from as high as 23.9 percent in 2001, according to data from the Investment Company Institute.
Douglas A. Shackelford, an economist who has examined the 2003 legislation that lowered the tax rates on capital gains and dividends, said that when those changes were being put in place ''people thought this would be revolutionary,'' setting off a wave of changes in the way companies rewarded their investors, and how investors evaluated companies.
In the end, ''it made a difference, but it certainly was not revolutionary,'' said Mr. Shackelford, a professor of taxation at the University of North Carolina's business school. The limited number of investors who were subject to the changes in 2003 has grown even smaller today, he said.
While data on the tax status of all stockholders is hard to come by, many economists agree than an increasing proportion of the entire equities market is now held by retirement investors whose holdings are not subject to current tax law; by foreign investors who don't pay American taxes, or by institutional investors like insurance companies and pension funds that are exempt from taxes.
Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said that even among individual investors who do pay the taxes, many have incomes under $250,000 and would not be subject to the increased rates on investment income proposed by the White House. The result Mr. Stovall is anticipating is that the coming changes will cause ''a lot less of a hit than most people are making it out to be.''
Mr. Stovall and others who share his views are not discounting the potential disruption to the financial markets if the White House and Congress fail to reach any agreement on the broad set of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to hit at the start of the year. The largest of these changes are not on investment income. An increase in the payroll tax, for example, could remove $95 billion from the take-home pay of Americans.
But even if a broad agreement is reached, many strategists are expecting that taxes will rise on investment income, with the White House proposing that for households earning over $250,000 the rate on dividends rise to a peak of 39.6 percent from the current 15 percent, and the rate on capital gains increasing to 20 percent from 15 percent.
Wealthy households will face an additional 3.8 percent charge on most investment income to help pay for the recent health care legislation.
Neil J. Hennessy, the founder of Hennessy Funds, said at a year-end investing event last week that if politicians allow the rates to rise as much as the White House has proposed, dividends will become much less attractive and there could have a ''disastrous effect'' on the willingness of investors to put money into stocks.
Some companies have already acted ahead of the changes, with Costco and Las Vegas Sands leading the way in issuing special dividends before the end of the year so their shareholders can take advantage of current tax rates. Some investors have sold off stocks that issue regular dividends expecting the companies to become less valuable once a greater proportion of dividend income is lost to taxes.
Andrew Garthwaite, an analyst at Credit Suisse, has predicted that if the White House's view on investment taxes prevails, it could lead to a long-term reduction in the value of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of as much as 5 percent. Mr. Garthwaite cautioned that the figure is likely to be lower, and that investors have already incorporated some of those losses into the market by selling stocks.
Mr. Kass disputed Mr. Garthwaite's estimates in a note to clients, and said he was looking at market losses of at most 1.6 percent and more likely closer to 0.8 percent. Part of the disagreement arises from Mr. Kass's contention that many people who are subject to tax are either uninformed about tax law -- and unlikely to respond to changes -- or more focused on the long-term performance of their portfolio than on short-term tax payments.
Mr. Kass said that even the losses he has predicted assume that wealthy people will be willing to cash out of their stock positions and stay out, something that he said is unlikely given the small returns available in other financial investments.
But an even larger source of misunderstanding has come from the difficulty of ascertaining the amount of all United States stocks held by people who will have to pay the new, higher tax rates. Foreign investors controlled 12.4 percent of American stocks in 2011, up from 8.8 percent in 2004, Treasury Department data shows.
Among the stocks that are held in the United States, 48 percent are held directly by households, down from 65 percent in 1988, according to Federal Reserve figures. And 40.7 percent of households have mutual funds in tax-exempt accounts.
But only some of these have income over $250,000 a year, and a portion of those people have their money in accounts protected from taxes. Eric Toder, a co-director of the Tax Policy Center, said as a result market prices should have little to do with the taxes paid on gains because prices are largely ''being determined by tax-exempt investors and by foreign investors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Douglas Kass, a hedge fund manager, says the tax rises could drive the stock market down by 1.6 percent at most. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX RELIEF (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INSURANCE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



77 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Being There

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
IN a smart, disheartening piece in The New York Times Magazine last month, Robert Worth surveyed the frustration of American diplomats who signed up to engage the world -- even dreamed of changing it -- and now find themselves encumbered by the safeguards and protocols of a risk-averse Washington. It is hard to change the world when you live in a fortress and travel in an armored motorcade.
The article was prompted, of course, by the death of J. Christopher Stevens, the ambassador killed in a Sept. 11 jihadi attack on the American mission in Benghazi, Libya. His death, Worth wrote, ''set off a political storm that seems likely to tie the hands of American diplomats around the world for some time to come. Congressmen and Washington pundits accused the administration of concealing the dangers Americans face abroad and of failing Stevens by providing inadequate security. Threats had been ignored, the critics said, seemingly unaware that a background noise of threats is constant at embassies across the greater Middle East.
''The death of an ambassador would not be seen as the occasional price of a noble but risky profession; someone had to be blamed.'' 
That phrase -- ''the occasional price of a noble but risky profession'' -- struck rather close to home. It is a calculus familiar to the tribe of foreign correspondents who work, as Bobby Worth often does, in places that can blow up in your face. If diplomats are withdrawing behind blast walls and armed escorts, and if that is costing us some useful understanding of the world, is the same thing happening to those who cover the news, and with what consequences?
Like the truly committed diplomat, the truly committed foreign correspondent is something of an endangered species. News organizations began their retreat from the world long ago, driven by economics and a wrongheaded belief that Americans don't care that much about foreign news. The American Journalism Review, which began charting the decline of foreign reporting in 1998 (that first article was entitled ''Goodbye, World''), reported two years ago that 18 American newspapers and two entire newspaper chains had closed every one of their overseas bureaus. Other news outlets, including most TV networks, have downsized or abandoned full-time bureaus in favor of reporters or anchors who parachute in when there's a crisis. They give us spurts of coverage when an Arab Spring breaks out or Hamas fires rockets into Israel, but much less of the ongoing attention that would equip us to see crises coming and understand them when they erupt.
The New York Times and a few other news organizations -- NPR, the BBC, The Wall Street Journal, CNN -- have bucked the trend. This is not so much out of altruistic spirit as an awareness that our identity (our brand, to use the obnoxious term of art) promises the world. And, not incidentally, our fastest-growing audience is the world.
But The Times is not immune to the dangers that have caused so many diplomats to play safe. My most haunting memories of the eight years I spent as executive editor are phone calls to parents and spouses to say a correspondent had fallen into the hands of bad people, and reckoning with the evacuation of a photographer maimed in the field, and sitting vigil with the families of Times employees killed in Kabul and Baghdad. On the 15th floor of The New York Times Building, the meeting rooms are named for Times journalists who died pursuing news. We are running out of rooms. The ''occasional price of a noble but risky profession'' is only a little consolation.
Anthony Shadid was our Chris Stevens: a passionate correspondent, fluent in the language, culture and history, a voracious listener, a beautiful writer. Careful, but impatient to see for himself. Anthony's death earlier this year -- after a severe asthma attack while on a surreptitious reporting trip in Syria -- was a freakish horror. But following on the kidnapping of four Times journalists in Libya and David Rohde's seven-month ordeal in Taliban captivity and other incidents, it prompted the paper to ratchet up already rigorous security, causing some correspondents to worry that an added layer of precaution would mean a little more distance from the truth. That does not seem to have happened yet to any significant degree, as readers can see from recent coverage of places like Gaza and Congo, but correspondents -- I checked with half a dozen -- are watchful.
''Everything is the balancing act,'' Alissa Rubin, who travels widely in her coverage of Afghanistan, told me in an e-mail. ''I know the paper has gotten a lot more careful and it's a good thing -- but only if it doesn't go too far.''
In Kabul, she said, there are major news organizations that simply do not let reporters venture outside the capital and others that take ''stupid crazy risks.'' The Times has long employed security experts in dangerous places, whose mandate is to find the balance between getting the story and getting home safe. To travel with Alissa into the war-wracked countryside is to fully appreciate the meaning of the word ''meticulous.'' Reporting ventures are planned, mapped and timed in exquisite detail, and everyone is alert to signs of potential danger.
In the end, you have to trust trained, experienced correspondents to judge how much risk is too much. And that brings me to the main point. To my mind, the bigger question for our business is not whether we sometimes err on the side of caution, but whether we are hiring, developing and deploying the next generation of trained, experienced correspondents to make those calls. That also happens to be the best possible investment in security.
Diplomats and journalists serve different masters but both need proximity. Yes, ''citizen journalism'' has been an asset. YouTube videos from Iran's 2009 uprising kept the story alive after foreign reporters were expelled, and tweets from Tahrir Square provided real-time guidance to the Arab Spring. But tweets are no substitute for being there.
That's why Anthony went into Syria, and why some of my colleagues worry that in our response to the very real and increasingly unpredictable perils of that place we could lose a dimension in our reporting. We have local stringers on the ground, and correspondents like C. J. Chivers have produced illuminating stories based on well-planned forays into Syria. But British, European and Arab news outlets are there full time -- perhaps foolishly, but it's possible we miss a layer of an immensely complicated story when we are not.
The price we pay for not being where news happens can be reckoned not only in less good journalism, but in less good policy. Because, make no mistake, some portion of the information governments call ''intelligence'' is nothing more than an attentive reading of the news.
It is ostensibly a scandal that the Obama administration initially described the attack that killed Chris Stevens not as a terrorist plot but as a protest gone bad. How could the ''intelligence community'' have gotten it so wrong? How could United Nations Ambassador Susan Rice have gotten it so wrong? Well, go back and read the first online reports after the Benghazi attack.
The Wall Street Journal: Stevens was killed ''amid angry protests over a film by a U.S. producer that mocks and insults the Prophet Muhammad.''
The Associated Press: ''... protesters in Libya burned down the U.S. consulate in the Libyan city of Benghazi, killing the U.S. ambassador. ...''
The Washington Post: ''In both Cairo and Benghazi, protesters said they were demonstrating against a U.S.-released film. ...''
CNN: ''The Benghazi consulate was one of several American diplomatic missions that faced protests. ...''
The Los Angeles Times: ''Angry crowds attacked U.S. diplomatic posts in Egypt and Libya ... after a video appeared on the Internet. ...''
The New York Times: ''Protesters angry over an amateurish American-made video denouncing Islam attacked. ...''
It is not irrelevant that every one of the online reports I just cited had a dateline somewhere other than Benghazi -- Cairo, Washington, New York. In the ensuing news cycles some excellent reporting by journalists on the scene set the record straight: there were no protesters in the street, but the perpetrators of the attack were, by their own account, infuriated into violence by reports of the offensive video. By then it was too late. The story had been hijacked for partisan spin and counterspin. But I strongly suspect that one reason Susan Rice got it wrong at the outset is that most of us in the press weren't there.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (86%); TRENDS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); HAMAS (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



78 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Ubs Is Reported To Be Near Deal On Rate Rigging

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
UBS, the Swiss banking giant, is close to reaching settlements with American and British authorities over the manipulation of interest rates, the latest case in a multiyear investigation that has rattled the financial industry and spurred a public outcry for broad reform.
UBS is expected to pay more than $450 million to settle claims that some employees reported false rates to increase the bank's profit, according to officials briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks were private. 
If the bank agrees to the deals with various authorities, the collective penalties would yield the largest total fines to date related to the rate-rigging inquiry and would increase the likelihood that other financial institutions would face stiff penalties. Authorities dealt their first blow in the rate-rigging case in June when the British bank Barclays agreed to a $450 million settlement.
A spokeswoman for UBS declined to comment. The agencies leading the UBS investigation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Justice Department and Britain's Financial Services Authority, also declined to comment.
The UBS case will provide a window into systemic problems in the rate-setting process, which affects how consumers and companies borrow money around the world. After reviewing thousands of internal bank e-mails and interviewing dozens of employees, the authorities have uncovered patterns of abuse at the major banks that help set benchmark interest rates.
The sprawling investigation is focused on benchmarks like the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The rate, a measure of how much banks charge each other for loans, is used to determine the costs of trillions of dollars of mortgages, credit card charges and student loans.
The authorities claim that UBS traders colluded with rival banks to influence rates in an effort to bolster their profits, according to officials briefed on the matter. Some traders at UBS were suspended this year over the matter.
Given the scope of the case, the UBS settlement is expected to heighten calls for a reform of the Libor system. Lawmakers are pushing to change the way banks report rates, providing more transparency to consumers, companies and investors that rely on the benchmark.
The reform movement gained momentum after global authorities secured the settlement with Barclays. Regulators had accused Barclays of reporting false rates, a scandal that prompted the resignation of the chief executive and other top officials at the bank.
Global authorities are now moving forward with civil and criminal cases, setting up the potential for major fines and regulatory sanctions. Some banks are in advanced settlement talks, including UBS and the Royal Bank of Scotland. The Royal Bank said it expected to disclose penalties before the firm's next earnings release in February. Deutsche Bank said last month that it had set aside money to cover potential fines, although it was too early to predict the size.
American authorities are hoping to complete a deal with UBS by the middle of the month, according to officials briefed on the matter. The officials noted that the discussions could spill into next year. The talks could also break down, in which case the authorities would file a lawsuit against the bank.
It is unclear whether global authorities will act in tandem on the UBS case. The bank and the regulators would prefer to strike a deal together, but the agencies are proceeding at different speeds.
Investigators say the broader Libor case could go on for years.
Canadian, Swiss and Asian authorities as well as the Justice Department, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Britain's Financial Services Authority are investigating the actions of more than a dozen banks. Along with UBS, the futures commission is focused on potential wrongdoing at two American banks, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, the officials said. HSBC is also under scrutiny.
In addition to the regulatory cases, the Justice Department has identified potential criminal wrongdoing by traders at Barclays and other banks. The banks also face private lawsuits from large investors like local governments, which claim to have suffered losses as a result of interest rate manipulation. The New York attorney general has subpoenaed 16 banks over their role in the scandal, an action that could foreshadow civil lawsuits. Analysts predict the financial industry could face penalties of up to $20 billion.
"The evidence that comes out of any future settlement is likely to be enormously helpful for our claims," said David E. Kovel, a partner at the law firm Kirby McInerney who is representing clients in a potential class-action suit related to Libor.
For UBS, the Libor case comes at a difficult time.
It has faced a series of legal problems since the financial crisis. In 2009, the bank agreed to pay $780 million to settle accusations by American authorities that it helped wealthy clients avoid taxes.
In 2011, it announced a $2.3 billion loss prompted by a rogue trader, Kweku M. Adoboli, who received a seven-year jail sentence for fraud last month. The firm agreed to pay a $47.5 million penalty to the British authorities in connection with the trading loss.
In the Libor case, UBS has been eager to cooperate. It has already reached a conditional immunity deal with the antitrust arm of the Justice Department, which could protect the bank from criminal prosecution under certain conditions. It is also cooperating with Canadian antitrust authorities by handing over e-mails and other documents implicating other banks.
But it did acknowledge publicly that such deals would not shield the bank from potential penalties from other regulators. The Justice Department's criminal unit, for instance, could still take action against the bank.
UBS disclosed last year that it was the subject of investigations related to Libor, saying it had received subpoenas from American and Japanese authorities. Swiss and British regulators have joined the UBS investigation, which involves a number of currencies in the Libor system.
The timing of the Libor cases against UBS depends in large part on cooperation among regulators.
The Financial Services Authority in Britain has worked closely with its American counterparts. In total, the British regulator has about 160 people working on its various cases against banks, which are at different stages of development.
As the top watchdog of London's financial services industry, the British regulator has positioned itself as a conduit for document requests from international regulators regarding Libor, which is set daily by banks in London. The agency also organizes interviews for its American counterparts with London-based bankers involved in the inquiries, according to an official with direct knowledge of the matter.
British regulators had been ready to move against UBS a month after officials announced a settlement with Barclays, the person added. The settlement has been delayed, however, as global authorities have tried to pursue a joint agreement with the bank.
"We've been going at the pace of the slowest regulator," the official said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters formed a giant fish during a rally last month in Zurich in front of the offices of UBS, center, and Credit Suisse, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER BIERI/KEYSTONE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Eric T. Schneiderman, New York's attorney general, has been pressing banks like UBS over financial misconduct. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SCANDALS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); FUTURES (74%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (80%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (80%); RBS (LSE) (80%); RBS (AMS) (80%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



79 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Marine Life on a Warming Planet

 BODY:
Since the beginning of the industrial era, humans have pumped increasing amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This has led not only to a warmer climate but also to significant changes in the chemistry of the oceans, which have long acted as a sink for carbon emissions but are being asked to absorb more than they can handle. The result is ocean acidification: increasingly corrosive seawater that has already ruined many coral reefs and over time could threaten the entire marine food chain. 
The State of Washington is now trying to tackle the problem in new and inventive ways. It has good reason to worry. Its economically important aquaculture industry specializes in shellfish, especially oysters. Shellfish are highly vulnerable to increased acidity, which kills them by preventing them from creating or maintaining their shells. Washington's coastal waters are also polluted by urban and farm runoff, as well as an unusual regional threat: wind patterns that cause the upwelling of deep, nutrient-rich ocean currents loaded with carbon dioxide.
The state's plan -- an offshoot of the National Shellfish Initiative created by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in 2011 -- acknowledges that the only long-term solution to acidification is for the world to reduce industrial emissions of carbon dioxide, allowing the ocean to reach a less acidic equilibrium. But because this is not likely to happen any time soon, Washington has decided to try to ''buy time'' for itself and, in doing so, provide valuable lessons for other parts of the world.
The first step will be to monitor ocean acidity with greater breadth and accuracy and to create an acidity budget -- an assessment of just how much acidity is contributed by whom. Next it will seek to reduce carbon pollution from land-based sources, including agricultural and urban runoff. There will also be practical, site-based steps to offset carbon, like planting sea grasses (which themselves are endangered globally) in shellfish hatcheries. And there will be an extensive campaign to educate the public, business leaders and policy makers about the risks of increasing acidification.
Gov. Christine Gregoire has set aside $3.3 million to begin the effort (much more will be required down the line), and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration will help with its laboratories. But what's important here is not the money. In a sense, the state has committed itself to becoming an aquatic laboratory. If it succeeds, it will help its own aquaculture industry and inspire other regions and countries to find practical responses for the oceans and their aquatic life as a whole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHEMISTRY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); AQUACULTURE (89%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (89%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (89%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); OCEANS (77%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); SHELLFISH FARMING (74%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



80 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: A Troubling Portrait of Domestic Work

 BODY:
If workplaces were fairer, domestic workers would be protected by minimum-wage and antidiscrimination laws and by unemployment insurance. They would also have things most employees take for granted, like meal breaks. But too many nannies, caregivers and housecleaners have none of these things. A new study confirms what advocacy groups have struggled to convey: that domestic workers, a vital but invisible sector of the economy, are suffering the predictable consequences of toiling behind closed doors in an unregulated industry. 
The study, by Nik Theodore, an associate professor of urban policy at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and Linda Burnham, research director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, surveyed 2,086 workers in 14 cities. It found that 23 percent of workers made less than their state's minimum wage, which must be at least $7.25 an hour. Live-in workers had it worse: 67 percent of them earned less than the minimum, 65 percent had no health insurance and about 82 percent had no paid sick days. About 30 percent reported health problems, and 25 percent of live-in caregivers said their jobs made it impossible to get five hours of uninterrupted sleep.
The median wage was $11 an hour for nannies, $10 an hour for caregivers and housecleaners -- often too little to support a family. Wages varied widely by ethnicity and immigration status. Hispanic nannies made $8.57 an hour, compared with $11.11 for Asian nannies. Undocumented immigrant caregivers were paid considerably less than legal residents and citizens.
As the study shows, domestic work in the United States lies at the crossroad of the immigrant rights and women's rights struggles -- participants were nearly all women, from 71 countries. Their experiences argue for strong policy reforms, starting with including domestic labor in the list of occupations that enjoy core federal and state workplace protections. These women deserve fair treatment. Achieving basic rights shouldn't have to depend, haphazardly, on the kindness of their employers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WOMEN (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (65%); ETHNICITY (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); SICK LEAVE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



81 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Pointing Fingers and Deflecting Blame

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a stalemate in their talks to avoid a self-imposed fiscal crisis at the end of the month, the lead negotiators for the White House and Congressional Republicans used the Sunday morning news shows to defend their positions and blame the other side.
''Right now I would say we're nowhere, period,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''We're nowhere.'' 
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner countered Mr. Boehner on Fox and the four other programs by outlining President Obama's proposals for long-term deficit reduction and insisting that Republicans were blocking a compromise by opposing the expiration of the Bush-era tax rates on high incomes, as scheduled by law on Dec. 31. Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers want to extend the tax cuts on household incomes below $250,000 a year, but not for income above that level, as the president vowed in his re-election campaign.
''There's just no reason why 98 percent of Americans have to see their taxes go up because some members of Congress on the Republican side want to block tax rate increases for 2 percent of the wealthiest Americans,'' Mr. Geithner said.
''Those rates are going to have to go up,'' he added. ''That's an essential part of a deal.''
The televised jousting was typical of the political posturing that attends Washington budget negotiations in the early stages, but the parties have little time for gamesmanship with the year-end deadline looming and the holidays approaching. Without a deal, across-the-board cuts in domestic and military programs and immediate tax increases for all Americans -- the result of the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts -- would take effect in January. Together, the automatic spending cuts and tax increases would reduce the deficit for the 2013 fiscal year by more than $500 billion, an amount so sudden and large that economists say it would cause a recession. They have called it the ''fiscal cliff.''
Since the president's re-election, Republicans have offered to accept an increase in revenue, but they have refused to support a partial extension of the Bush tax cuts that would let the top rates rise to 39.6 percent, the level that was in place during the Clinton administration, from 35 percent.
The president's proposal would reduce the deficit by about $4 trillion over the first 10 years. It includes $1.6 trillion in tax increases on upper-income Americans; $600 billion in reduced spending for Medicare, Medicaid, farm subsidies and other programs; additional spending cuts worth $1 trillion for the coming decade, already agreed to by the president and Congress; and an $800 billion reduction in projected war spending.
Mr. Boehner said on Sunday that he was ''flabbergasted'' by the administration's offer because it included too little in spending cuts and too much in stimulus measures and because it would let the top income tax rates rise.
The speaker said Republicans had proposed ''a dozen different ways'' to increase tax revenue without raising rates. But he did not say what those were, and Mr. Boehner's office has not provided details. Studies by the White House and nonpartisan policy groups have concluded that not enough revenue can be raised without ending popular deductions for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and state and local taxes, even for some middle-income taxpayers.
Mr. Geithner, on the ABC News program ''This Week,'' said the ball is ''absolutely'' in the Republicans' court to specify alternatives. ''And when they come back to us and say, 'We would like you to consider this, and we'd like you to consider that,' we'll take a look at that,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Friday during an interview for the Sunday news show ''Face the Nation.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS USHER/CBS NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); JOHN BOEHNER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



82 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Negotiators Leading Talks on Fiscal Crisis Defend Stands

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a stalemate in their talks to avoid a self-imposed fiscal crisis at the end of this month, the lead negotiators for the White House and Congressional Republicans used the Sunday morning news shows to defend their positions and blame the other side for the impasse.
''Right now I would say we're nowhere, period. We're nowhere,'' House Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
''We've put a serious offer on the table by putting revenues out there to try to get this question resolved,'' he said. ''But the White House has responded with virtually nothing.'' 
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner countered Mr. Boehner on Fox and the four other programs by outlining President Obama's proposals for long-term deficit reduction and insisting that Republicans were blocking compromise by their opposition to letting the Bush-era tax rates on high incomes expire as scheduled by law on Dec. 31. Mr. Obama and Democratic lawmakers want to extend the tax cuts on household incomes below $250,000 a year, but not for income above that level, as the president vowed in his re-election campaign.
''There's just no reason why 98 percent of Americans have to see their taxes go up because some members of Congress on the Republican side want to block tax rate increases for 2 percent of the wealthiest Americans,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''Remember, those tax rates, those tax cuts, cost a trillion dollars over 10 years.''
''Those rates are going to have to go up,'' he added. ''That's an essential part of a deal.''
The televised jousting reflected the political posturing that is typical in the early stages of Washington budget negotiations, with leaders of each party seeking to persuade the public that their position is the right one and to bring pressure on the other side to compromise. Mr. Geithner was scheduled to give interviews on all five major Sunday shows, and Mr. Boehner, in turn, requested time on Fox late last week, prompting the network to cancel appearances by two senators it had booked.
The White House and Congress do not have much time for the usual negotiating games, with the year-end deadline looming and the holidays approaching. Absent a deal offering an alternative, across-the-board cuts in domestic and military programs and immediate tax increases for all Americans -- the result of the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts -- would take effect in January. Together, the automatic spending cuts and tax increases would cut the deficit for fiscal year 2013 by more than $500 billion, an amount so sudden and large that economists say it would cause a recession. They have called it the ''fiscal cliff.''
''I don't want any part of going over the cliff,'' Mr. Boehner said on Fox.
Mr. Geithner, also on Fox, said it was a ''decision that lies in the hands of Republicans who are now opposing an increase in the tax rates.''
The goal of both Mr. Obama and Congress is a package of alternative spending cuts and revenue increases. Republicans, led by Mr. Boehner, have offered since the president's re-election to accept higher revenue, but they have refused to support a partial extension of the Bush tax cuts that would let the top income tax rates rise to 39.6 percent, the level that was in place during the Clinton administration, from the current 35 percent.
The separate television appearances of the two men came after their private meeting on Capitol Hill on Thursday, when Mr. Geithner outlined the president's positions for about $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the first 10 years to Mr. Boehner and the No. 2 Republican in the House, Eric Cantor of Virginia.
The specifics were the same as those proposed by Mr. Obama in his budget earlier this year, without any additional concessions. The proposal includes $1.6 trillion in new revenue from upper-income taxpayers; $600 billion in reduced spending for Medicare, Medicaid, farm subsidies and other programs; $1 trillion in other spending cuts that the president and Congress committed to last year for the coming decade; and an $800 billion reduction in projected war spending, reflecting the winding down of American combat operations overseas.
As he had late last week, Mr. Boehner dismissed the administration's offer as ''a nonserious proposal'' for including too little in spending cuts and too much in additional stimulus measures, and for letting the top income-tax rates rise, which Mr. Boehner said would hurt some small businesses. On television, he recounted his reaction to Mr. Geithner at the meeting last week.
''I was flabbergasted. I looked at him and said, 'You can't be serious,' '' Mr. Boehner said. ''I've just never seen anything like it. You know we've got seven weeks between Election Day and the end of the year, and three of those weeks have been wasted with this nonsense.''
The speaker said Republicans had proposed ''a dozen different ways'' to raise additional tax revenue without raising rates. But he did not say what those were, and so far Mr. Boehner's office has not provided details. Administration officials said Republicans have made no specific proposals.
Generally, Republicans -- much like Mitt Romney in his presidential campaign -- have not specified how additional revenue could be raised over 10 years by limiting tax deductions for the wealthy rather than raising their rates. The White House and nonpartisan policy groups have done analyses showing that revenue cannot be raised on that scale without ending popular deductions for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and state and local taxes, even for some middle-income taxpayers.
Mr. Geithner, on the ABC News program ''This Week,'' said the ball is ''absolutely'' in Republicans' court to specify alternatives.
''They understand that,'' he said of Republican leaders. ''And when they come back to us and say, 'We would like you to consider this and we'd like you to consider that,' we'll take a look at that.''
Mr. Geithner said Mr. Obama was willing to consider proposals to ensure the long-term solvency of Social Security, but as a matter separate from a comprehensive deficit-reduction agreement.
The president's bipartisan Simpson-Bowles fiscal commission in 2010 similarly called for Social Security to be considered separately since it operates as a pay-as-you-go system -- current revenues, mainly from workers' payroll taxes, are used to pay current beneficiaries -- and because it is not contributing to deficit projections nearly as much as Medicare and Medicaid are as the population ages.
Republicans want the president to at least support a proposal that he tentatively agreed to in unsuccessful debt-reduction talks with Mr. Boehner in mid-2011. That proposal would alter the formula for calculating beneficiaries' cost-of-living adjustments in a way that would reduce future increases but, many economists say, would also more accurately reflect inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



83 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Trader at Morgan Stanley Faces Inquiry on Possible Manipulation

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On paper, Glenn Hadden seemed to be the ideal person to run a large bond trading operation at Morgan Stanley when he was hired in early 2011. Mr. Hadden, a former Goldman partner, was one of the most profitable bond traders on Wall Street.
But there was more to his story than just stellar financial results. He had left his previous employer, Goldman Sachs, after questions about his trading activity. And now, Mr. Hadden is under investigation over his trading in Treasury futures while at Goldman, according to a regulatory filing. 
Specifically, regulators at the CME Group, which runs commodity and futures exchanges, are investigating whether Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures late in the trading day manipulated closing prices in the market and, in turn, made other of his trades more profitable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
Mr. Hadden, who is now the head of the global interest rates desk at Morgan Stanley, has been given formal notice by the CME that an inquiry is under way, meaning that it is at an advanced stage.
Through a Morgan Stanley spokesman, Mr. Hadden, 42, declined to comment. Goldman Sachs also declined to comment, and Morgan Stanley would say only that Mr. Hadden continues to work at the firm as head of global rates.
Mr. Hadden is one of the highest paid professionals at Morgan Stanley and has been known throughout his career for aggressive and profitable risk taking. It is unusual for someone of Mr. Hadden's stature to be the target of a civil complaint like this, and if he is found to have violated exchange rules, he could, in the extreme, face millions in fines and be barred from trading on the CME Group.
While Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs learned about the investigation only in recent months, both firms were aware of another controversy involving Mr. Hadden that took place not long after the CME trading now under scrutiny.
After receiving complaints involving Mr. Hadden from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Goldman Sachs took the extraordinary step of putting him on paid leave in 2009, according to several people briefed on the matter.
Goldman is one of 21 firms designated to trade United States government securities with the New York Fed. Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on the matter, suspected that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth. A spokesman for the New York Fed declined to comment.
While neither Goldman nor Mr. Hadden was accused by regulators of wrongdoing in that case, Mr. Hadden's leave from Goldman dragged on for months, in part because senior managers were divided on whether he should return to work, and whether he should have managerial responsibilities if he did return, according to people involved in the discussions.
In November 2010, Goldman told its employees that Mr. Hadden was leaving the firm. Morgan Stanley snapped him up soon afterward. Several senior executives there were aware of the New York Fed's complaints when Mr. Hadden was hired, but they were satisfied that he had not done anything wrong, according to people involved in the decision to hire him.
"Wall Street is always looking for a proven moneymaker and has been known to look the other way on things in pursuit of that," said Michael Driscoll, a former senior trader at the Wall Street firm Bear Stearns who now teaches at Adelphi University.
Mr. Hadden joined Goldman in 1999, just months before the firm went public, and rose to become one of the bank's top traders. In 2008 he was made a partner, a title typically reserved for executives known inside Goldman as "commercial killers" - people who make an outsize financial contribution to the firm. Current and former colleagues said Mr. Hadden, who has been known to drink copious amounts of Gatorade at work, was almost "machinelike" when he traded. "He gets this look in his eye," one former colleague said. "It is scary."
His trading made him very wealthy. His exact compensation is not known but rival rates traders and head hunters estimate that in his best years he made more than $10 million.
Mr. Hadden was just the sort of swing-for-the-fences trader Morgan Stanley needed in late 2010, when it was working to rehabilitate its fixed income, or bond, department. That unit, where Mr. Hadden now works, was badly bruised during the financial crisis. Since then, its efforts to rebuild have been slowed by ratings cuts and new regulations that require it and its rivals to hold more capital against riskier operations. These rules are forcing Morgan to either scale back or get out of certain business lines altogether.
Trading interest rates, which fall under the bond department, however, is less capital intensive, so in recent years, Morgan Stanley has made a big push into this corner of Wall Street. Enter Mr. Hadden.
He has continued to deliver profits to Morgan Stanley, but his time there has not been without incident. In 2011, Mr. Hadden's division was burned by a bad wager on United States inflation expectations, resulting in a loss of tens of millions of dollars, according to people briefed on the trade. Since then, Morgan executives have increased their supervision of Mr. Hadden's activities, according to several people briefed on the matter.
A lot is riding on Mr. Hadden at Morgan, however. Not only does he run the firm's powerful rates desk, but many of his bosses - including Colm Kelleher, co-president of institutional securities, and Kenneth M. deRegt, global head of fixed income sales and trading - had a role in hiring him.
Morgan Stanley reported the investigation to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, on Nov. 19, according to a person briefed on the matter.
Mr. Hadden got his start in finance in Canada. He was raised in Ontario and attended the University of Western Ontario, where he played football. He worked on Bay Street, which is Toronto's financial district, and eventually landed a job there with Goldman. He also worked for Goldman in London and New York.
He has not forgotten his Canadian roots. He is a big supporter of the Toronto Argonauts football team, and he held a charity-driven party in Toronto connected to the recent centennial Grey Cup.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Glenn Hadden, a powerful trader in the Treasury market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOLDMAN SACHS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); CME GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (91%); CME (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



84 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: If You Signed Norquist's Tax Pledge, There's a Way Out

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''For Tax Pledge and Its Author, a Test of Time'' (front page, Nov. 20), about Republican legislators struggling with the implications of having signed Grover Norquist's anti-tax-increase pledge: 
First, signing such a pledge is irresponsible. To say there are no circumstances under which a tax increase could be justified is foolish.
Second, there is a loophole in the pledge. Under its literal language, a signer agrees to ''oppose'' any efforts to increase taxes but does not irrevocably commit to voting against them. A signer could vigorously ''oppose'' a tax increase and yet vote for it as part of a compromise resolution.
Responsible economists agree that the country's fiscal problems will have to be solved by a mix of revenue increases and spending cuts. I hope that the legislators who have signed Mr. Norquist's ''pledge'' will agree when Congress finally addresses our fiscal problems.
PETER L. FABER New York, Nov. 20, 2012
The writer is a former chairman of the American Bar Association's Taxation Section.
To the Editor:
There is only one pledge any politician should sign:
''I pledge to act in the best interests of my constituents and the people of the United States as a whole. I pledge not to sign any other pledges.''
PHILIP TYMON Guerneville, Calif., Nov. 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



85 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Obama's End To Giving In

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Amid demands from Republicans that President Obama propose detailed new spending cuts to avert the year-end fiscal crisis, his answer boils down to this: you first.
Mr. Obama, scarred by failed negotiations in his first term and emboldened by a clear if close election to a second, has emerged as a different kind of negotiator in the past week or two, sticking to the liberal line and frustrating Republicans on the other side of the bargaining table.
Disciplined and unyielding, he argues for raising taxes on the wealthy while offering nothing new to rein in spending and overhaul entitlement programs beyond what was on the table last year. Until Republicans offer their own new plan, Mr. Obama will not alter his. In effect, he is trying to leverage what he claims as an election mandate to force Republicans to take ownership of the difficult choices ahead.
His approach is born of painful experience. In his first four years in office, Mr. Obama has repeatedly offered what he considered compromises on stimulus spending, health care and deficit reduction to Republicans, who either rejected them as inadequate or pocketed them and insisted on more. Republicans argued that Mr. Obama never made serious efforts at compromise and instead lectured them about what they ought to want rather than listening to what they did want. 
Either way, the two sides were left at loggerheads over the weekend with less than a month until a series of painful tax increases and spending cuts automatically take effect, risking what economists say would be a new recession.
Mr. Obama refuses to propose more spending cuts until Republicans accept higher tax rates on the wealthy, and Republicans refuse to accept higher tax rates on the wealthy while asking for more spending cuts.
''I'm puzzled why Republicans are locking into a principle that's not sustainable and why Democrats aren't taking the moment to put forward their own vision of entitlement reform,'' said Peter R. Orszag, a former White House budget director for Mr. Obama.
Mr. Orszag's former White House colleagues said they had grown tired of making unilateral concessions only to see Republicans moving the goal posts, as they see it. ''The president is not going to negotiate with himself,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''He's laid out his position, and Republicans have to come to the table.''
Republican strategists argue that in resorting to campaign-style events to take his fiscal message to voters, Mr. Obama is overplaying his hand, much as President George W. Bush did after his re-election when he barnstormed the country in favor of a Social Security restructuring plan that he never successfully sold to leaders on Capitol Hill.
''He is overreading his mandate,'' said John Feehery, a former adviser to top House Republicans. ''By doing the campaign thing, he is making the same mistake Bush made in 2005.'' Eventually, he said, Democratic and Republican leaders ''are going to cut the deal, and Obama is going to be on the outside looking in.''
The difference might be that Mr. Obama ran more explicitly on the idea of letting Mr. Bush's tax cuts expire for incomes over $250,000, while Mr. Bush's re-election was fought more on grounds of national security than Social Security. But both presidents emerged from relatively narrow popular-vote victories determined to impose their will on a balky Congress resisting their leadership.
Mr. Obama seemed to defy the Republican House last week when Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner delivered a plan calling for $1.6 trillion in additional taxes from the wealthy over 10 years, as well as $50 billion in short-term stimulus spending and $612 billion in recycled cuts first put on the table during last year's failed debt talks.
Republicans erupted in outrage, though they produced no specific alternative. Instead, they noted they had expressed newfound willingness since the election to increase tax revenue by limiting deductions for the wealthy, though not by raising rates.
The administration laid out its latest plan in less formal ways a couple of weeks earlier, according to a senior official who declined to be identified discussing private deliberations. But the message was that Speaker John A. Boehner could not move yet. After waiting with no further response, the administration decided to have Mr. Geithner deliver the proposal on paper knowing it would be provocative but thinking it was needed to move the process along.
Instead, the process has collapsed, at least for now. The depth of disagreement played out on the Sunday morning talk shows, even as Mr. Obama went golfing with former President Bill Clinton in a session that White House officials presumed would include trading notes about the fiscal crisis.
''We've put a serious offer on the table by putting revenues up there to try to get this question resolved,'' Mr. Boehner said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''But the White House has responded with virtually nothing. They have actually asked for more revenue than they've been asking for the whole entire time.''
Mr. Geithner said it was up to Republicans to outline more spending cuts than Mr. Obama had previously put on the table. ''Some Republicans apparently want to go beyond that, but what they have to do is tell us what they're prepared to do,'' Mr. Geithner told Bob Schieffer on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''And what we can't do, Bob, is sit here trying to guess what works for them.''
That represents something of a shift for Mr. Obama, who did try to guess what worked for Republicans in his first term. When he crafted a stimulus spending program to bolster the economy shortly after taking office, Mr. Obama devoted roughly a third of the money to tax cuts that he assumed Republicans would like. They did not. Likewise, his framework for universal health care included free-market elements that he thought Republicans would embrace. They did not.
While Republicans argued that the overall programs overshadowed any palatable aspects, Mr. Obama came to believe he had made a mistake in offering concessions up front. In an interview in September 2010, he said he had learned ''that if you already have a third of the package as tax cuts, then the Republicans, who traditionally are more comfortable with tax cuts, may just pocket that and attack the other components of the program.''
Aides said Mr. Obama came to the same conclusion after his clash with Republicans over raising the nation's borrowing limit last year. ''We put all these things on the table, and the reason we couldn't do a deal is because Republicans couldn't do revenues,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''So our view here is the president won't sign a deal that doesn't have higher rates for the wealthy. Until they cross that bridge, nothing else is relevant.''
Yet there is risk in that. Republicans now understand that higher tax rates on the wealthy is Mr. Obama's No. 1 priority, so rather than give in, some strategists say they should hold out to leverage those to shape other aspects of a final deal.
''He only cares about one detail: raising rates on the top two brackets,'' said Tony Fratto, a former White House and Treasury Department official under Mr. Bush. ''Everything else is secondary. That's why if that is going to happen, it will be last if Republicans can hold out. I think it's pretty clear Obama will sacrifice just about anything to get that. It's the only win for him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama in 2010 with Peter R. Orszag, left, the White House budget director at the time, and Ben S. Bernanke, second from right, the Fed chairman. (POOL PHOTO BY ROGER L. WOLLENBERG) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); TAX LAW (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



86 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Leery of a Merger, a Hospital in Brooklyn Plans to Declare Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
A financially troubled hospital serving a largely African-American and Caribbean niche of central Brooklyn is planning to declare bankruptcy this week, hospital officials said on Sunday, raising concerns that New York State may force it to close or merge with another institution.
The hospital, Interfaith Medical Center, serving Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown Heights, has been in and out of financial trouble for decades, with its survival dependent on infusions of state aid. In difficult economic times, however, the Cuomo administration has not indicated a willingness to continue bailing out failing hospitals. 
James Introne, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's deputy secretary for health, when asked on Friday about the possibility of an Interfaith bankruptcy filing, said he was not aware of it, but he said, ''That's their decision, not ours.''
A year ago, a Brooklyn work group of the governor's Medicaid Redesign Team, which was created to find savings in the hospital and health industry, recommended that Interfaith merge with two other Brooklyn hospitals, Wyckoff Heights Medical Center and Brooklyn Hospital. It suggested that Brooklyn Hospital, judged to be the most financially stable of the three, should take the lead.
Interfaith officials said on Sunday that they had no choice but to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, given the hospital's precarious financial situation.
But they said the hospital had a better chance of surviving in the long term if the state would guarantee it about $20 million in what is known as debtor-in-possession financing to underwrite its operating costs during the reorganization.
The officials said the state Dormitory Authority, which holds $130 million of the hospital's debt, had refused to provide the financing unless Interfaith would first sign an agreement to merge with Brooklyn Hospital.
But the Interfaith officials said that granting Brooklyn Hospital control without the state's first promising the financing needed to keep the hospital going would be tantamount to a covert plan to close the hospital in a year and a half or so.
''That is turning over the keys to Brooklyn and we have no further say in the future of this hospital and, more importantly, whether it will stay open or not and whether it will continue to serve the community,'' said Nathan M. Barotz, the chairman of Interfaith's board of trustees.
Mr. Introne denied that that was the case. ''My understanding is that Chapter 11 has to be part of this process given the liabilities associated with the organization,'' he said. ''But I've also been advised that it can be constructed in a way that would allow a successor organization that has been previously planned.''
The hospital, at 1545 Atlantic Avenue, is so poor that it cannot afford malpractice insurance. In August, hospital administrators said that it was running out of cash and that they feared they would soon be unable to meet its payroll.
Wyckoff hospital dropped out of the merger plan this year, with trustees saying they feared that the merger would lead to a severe shrinking or a closing of the hospital. Wyckoff's new chief executive, Ramon Rodriguez, had served on the Brooklyn work group that recommended the three-way merger, but he later turned against it.
In letters to state officials, Mr. Barotz has said a 2010 cut in Medicaid rates cost Interfaith 40 percent of its inpatient revenue and precipitated its current crisis.
The hospital has about 11,000 inpatient visits a year, and 250,000 outpatient visits, according to the letter. It has 1,516 full-time employees, many of whom live in central Brooklyn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); HOSPITALS (91%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RELIGION (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); MERGERS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



87 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Promises on AIDS Are Not Enough

 BODY:
Experts know how to control the global spread of the AIDS virus. What's missing is enough money and political will to apply proven tactics widely enough to change the course of the epidemic. 
On Thursday Secretary of State Hillary Clinton unveiled her promised ''blueprint'' for reaching an ''AIDS-free generation'' -- meaning a time when virtually no child is born with the virus that causes AIDS and teenagers have much less risk of becoming infected. It lays out ways for containing the epidemic, like expanding the use of the most effective treatments and prevention methods, and focusing on groups most at risk of infection, like sex workers and people who inject drugs. But it failed to set firm goals for the percentage of people to be provided with treatments or the reduction in disease to be achieved. Nor does it offer a pledge of new money to help afflicted nations carry out the tasks.
Doing better on AIDS is not a pipe dream. In fact, the combined efforts of the American program to combat AIDS abroad, a global health fund based in Geneva, private donors and national governments have substantially slowed transmission of the disease. The United Nations AIDS program reported last month that the annual rate of new infections had been cut over the past decade by more than 50 percent in 25 low- and middle-income countries and by more than 70 percent in Malawi and Botswana, two of the countries with the highest prevalence of the virus.
These gains were achieved by strategies like providing drug treatments to infected people to reduce the risk that they will spread the virus, treating mothers with drugs during pregnancy and breast-feeding to prevent transmission to their babies, wider testing, circumcising males to protect them from infection, public education campaigns and counseling, and distributing condoms. Still, the number of new infections yearly, while coming down, remains stubbornly high -- 2.5 million in 2011. Some 34 million people around the world are infected with the virus.
The fight against AIDS has yet to reach what Secretary Clinton calls a ''tipping point,'' at which the annual increase in new patients being treated with AIDS drugs exceeds the number of people newly infected. Until it does, the global epidemic will continue to expand.
The blueprint was prepared by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, a program created in 2003 by former President George W. Bush with bipartisan support from Congress. It suggests that a ''robust scale-up'' of high-impact prevention programs can put many countries ''on the path'' toward an AIDS-free generation within the next three to five years.
Middle-income countries where AIDS is prevalent have steadily increased their share of the annual total of more than $16 billion spent around the world fighting the disease, but the poorest countries still need help. Governments struggling to revive their economies will be hard pressed to increase money or resources, but this is an investment that the international community cannot put off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BREASTFEEDING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BOTSWANA (79%); MALAWI (79%); SWITZERLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



88 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Delta, Seeking London Access, Ponders Stake in Virgin

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy Singapore Airlines' 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways, in an effort to bolster its international operations, particularly flights between New York and London, a person briefed on the matter said on Sunday.
Talks are continuing but a deal will not be announced soon, this person said. Singapore Airlines confirmed that it was in discussions about a potential sale of its Virgin stake, but provided no further details. 
A transaction would be the latest in a round of mergers that has reshaped the airline industry, as companies in the United States and Europe have looked to consolidation to restore profitability.
With oil prices remaining stubbornly high and the economic outlook uncertain, many airlines have continued to struggle. That may precipitate even more takeovers, analysts say.
A deal would also be Delta's most significant strategic move since its 2008 merger with Northwest Airlines, which made it the biggest American carrier until the union of United Airlines and Continental Airlines last year.
It would provide more access to London's Heathrow Airport, one of the world's busiest, and expand Delta's North Atlantic business.
It would also bolster its partnership with Air France KLM, Europe's biggest airline. Both companies are part of the Sky Team global alliance, and also run a joint business in the North Atlantic market, sharing flights, revenues and costs.
"Delta has shown time and time again that it is extremely opportunistic," said Brett Snyder, an airline expert. "If it sees a good opportunity, nothing is off the table."
If it proceeded, a transaction would directly challenge the Oneworld global alliance, whose biggest members are American Airlines and British Airways. The two airlines have an international joint venture. Virgin does not belong to any of the three major airline alliances - Star, Oneworld and Sky Team - depriving it of the ability to coordinate flights and cut costs, which has helped many of its competitors. Star's major carriers are United, US Airways and Lufthansa. The deal would also give Virgin a strong partner as it struggles to compete against rivals with deeper pockets. Founded by Richard Branson in 1984, the company has long embraced an image of fun travel and cheaper fares.
But that has not helped the airline's financial condition of late. Virgin lost £80 million, or $128 million, in the year that ended in February, compared with a profit of £18.5 million in the previous year.
The company has been under pressure from the likes of British Airways, whose corporate parent, IAG, bought BMI British Midlands earlier this year. Virgin fought against that deal, arguing that it would give British Airways too much of a presence at Heathrow. But the takeover was completed, after IAG complied with a European Commission order to give back 14 slots at the airport.
The deal may also pave the way for an eventual change of control of Virgin. The company's chief executive, Steve Ridgway, told The Financial Times in an interview in January that Mr. Branson was prepared to sell some of his 51 percent controlling stake in the airline.
"For Virgin, it's an exit strategy in an environment where they are being marginalized by alliances on the Atlantic," said Robert W. Mann, an airline analyst based in Port Washington, N.Y.
A Delta spokeswoman declined to comment. A representative for Virgin was not immediately available for comment.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: If Delta can secure the 49 percent stake of Virgin owned by Singapore Airlines, it could expand flights serving Heathrow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE MacGREGOR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (93%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); C6L (SGX) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (57%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



89 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer Says Trader Did Not Manipulate Market

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: A lawyer for Glenn Hadden, the head of global rates at Morgan Stanley, said the CME inquiry of his client concerns "technical risk management activity in a one-minute period four years ago during which Mr. Hadden acted properly and followed established market practice." 

 BODY:
A lawyer for a high-profile trader under investigation over his trading in Treasury futures said his client did not engage in any manipulative activity. 
Glenn Hadden, the head of global rates at Morgan Stanley, is the subject of an inquiry by regulators at the CME, the big Chicago exchange, according to a recent regulatory filing. The trading -- which took place when Mr. Hadden was at Goldman Sachs -- was the subject of a front page article in The New York Times on Monday. 
"The CME matter concerns technical risk management activity in a one-minute period four years ago during which Mr. Hadden acted properly and followed established market practice. There is no legal or factual basis for any suggestion of market manipulation," James J. Benjamin Jr., a lawyer at Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld who is representing Mr. Hadden, said in a statement. 
 Mr. Hadden had declined requests to comment for Monday's article. 
Whether Mr. Hadden followed established market practice will be a topic for discussion with regulators. People briefed on that investigation but not authorized to speak on the record said the inquiry focused on Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures right before the markets closed. The effect of this would have been to make other trades more profitable, according to the people briefed on the matter.
Mr. Hadden is one of Wall Street's most powerful Treasury traders. Morgan Stanley hired him 2011 to run its rates desk, an area of focus for the firm after the financial crisis. When Morgan Stanley hired Mr. Hadden, it was not aware that the CME was looking into his trading of Treasury futures but it was aware of another incident that took place around the same time, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak on the record.
In that case, Goldman received complaints involving Mr. Hadden from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Goldman is one of 21 firms designated to trade United States government securities with the New York Fed. Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on this matter, felt that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth.
After receiving those complaints, Goldman put Mr. Hadden on paid leave in 2009. Neither Goldman nor Mr. Hadden was accused by regulators of wrongdoing in that case, but Mr. Hadden's leave stretched out for months, in part because senior managers were divided on whether he should return to work, and whether he should have managerial responsibilities if he did return, according to people involved in the discussions.
In November 2010, Mr. Hadden left Goldman. Soon afterward, he landed at Morgan Stanley. Several senior executives there were aware of the New York Fed's complaints when Mr. Hadden was hired, but they were satisfied that he had not done anything wrong, according to people involved in the decision to hire him.

        
Morgan Stanley Trader Faces Inquiry on Possible Manipulation
        
When Wall Street Firms Change Risk Models

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; CME Group Inc; Hadden, Edward Glenn; Morgan Stanley; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CME Group Inc; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: Hadden, Edward Glenn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



90 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: For Buffett, the Long Run Still Trumps the Quick Return

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: In New York to promote a new book about him, Warren E. Buffett lamented Wall Street, which promotes a trading culture over an investing culture. 

 BODY:
"If somebody bought Berkshire Hathaway in 1965 and they held it, they made a great investment - and their broker would have starved to death."
Warren E. Buffett was sitting across from me over lunch at a private club in Midtown Manhattan last week, lamenting the current state of Wall Street, which promotes a trading culture over an investing culture and offers incentives for brokers and traders to generate fees and fast profits.
"The emphasis on trading has increased. Just look at the turnover in all of the stocks," he said, adding with a smile: "Sales people have forever gotten paid by selling people something. Generally, you pay a doctor for how often he gets you to change prescriptions."
Mr. Buffett, 82, is famous for investing in companies that he sees as solid operations and essential to the economy, like railroads, utilities and financial companies, and holds his stakes for the long run. The argument that the markets are better off today because of the enormous amount of liquidity in the stock market, a function of quick flipping and electronic trading, is a fallacy, he said. 
"You can't buy 10 percent of the farmland in Nebraska in three years if you set out to do it," he said. Yet, he pointed out, he was able to buy the equivalent of 10 percent of I.B.M. in six to eight months as a result of the market's liquidity. "The idea that people look at their holdings in such a way that that kind of volume exists means that to a great extent, it's a casino game," he said. Of course, unlike many investors, he plans to hold his stake in I.B.M. for years.
Mr. Buffett was in a reminiscing mood about a bygone era, in part because he was in New York to make the rounds on television to discuss a new book chronicling his 61-year career, which began in 1951 at Buffett-Falk & Company in Omaha. (After lunch, he was going to visit "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.")
The book, "Tap Dancing to Work," by a longtime journalist and good friend of his, Carol Loomis of Fortune magazine, is a compendium of articles that she and others wrote in Fortune that creates a series of narratives spanning the arc of his career.
Ms. Loomis, who first met Mr. Buffett in 1967 - and whose long career is a story unto itself - also came to our lunch. Ms. Loomis may know more about Mr. Buffett than he knows about himself. ("There's nothing here you're going to like," she said, after surveying the various pies when the dessert cart came around. She was right: he took a quick look and asked if they served ice cream. They did.)
As we talked about the "good old days" - he spoke of some of his early friends who were successful hedge fund investors, like Julian Robertson, who founded Tiger Management - it became clear that he was less enamored of the investor class of the next generation.
When I asked, for example, if there were any private equity investors that he admired, he flatly replied: "No."
When I asked if he followed any hedge fund managers, he struggled to name any, before saying that he liked Seth Klarman, a low-key value investor who runs the Baupost Group, based in Boston.
"They're not as good as the old ones generally. The field has gotten swamped, so there's so much money playing and people have been able to raise money by just saying 'hedge fund,'" he said. "That was not the case earlier on; you really had to have some performance for some time before people would put money with you. It's a marketing thing."
For a moment, he paused, and then posited that if he started a hedge fund today, "I'd probably grow faster, because a record now would attract money a lot faster," speculating that his record of returns would attract billions of dollars from pension funds and others. But he then acknowledged a truism of investing that he knows all too well, as the manager of an enterprise that is now worth some $220 billion: "Then money starts getting self-defeating at a point, too."
Until 1969, Mr. Buffett operated a private partnership that was akin in some ways to a modern hedge fund, except the fee structure was decidedly different. Instead of charging "2 and 20" - a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of profits - Mr. Buffett's investors "keep all of the annual gains up to 6 percent; above that level Buffett takes a one-quarter cut," Ms. Loomis wrote. However, in 1969, he announced he would shutter his partnership. "This is a market I don't understand," he said, according to Ms. Loomis.
He believed that the stock market of 1968 had become wildly overpriced - and he was right. By the end of 1974, the market took a tumble. Instead, he remained the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, one of his early investments.
"If you want to make a lot of money and you own a hedge fund or a private equity fund, there's nothing like 2 and 20 and a lot of leverage," he said over a lunch of Cobb salad. "If I kept my partnership and owned Berkshire through that, I would have made even more money."
Mr. Buffett says he now considered himself as much a business manager as an investor. "The main thing I'm doing is trying to build a business, and now we built one. Investing is part of it but it is not the main thing."
Today, Mr. Buffett is particularly circumspect about the investment strategies that hedge funds employ, like shorting, or betting against, a company's stock. He used to short companies as part of a hedging strategy when he ran his partnership, but now he says that he and Charlie Munger, his longtime friend and vice chairman of Berkshire, see it as too hard.
"Charlie and I both have talked about it, we probably had a hundred ideas of things that would be good short sales. Probably 95 percent of them at least turned out to be, and I don't think we would have made a dime out of it if we had been engaged in the activity. It's too difficult," he explained, suggesting that the timing of short investments is crucial. "The whole thing about 'longs' is, if you know you're right, you can just keep buying, and the lower it goes, the better you like it, and you can't do that with shorts."
One of his big worries these days is about what's going to happen to all the pension money that is being invested in the markets, often with little success, in part because investors are constantly buying and selling securities on the advice of brokers and advisers, rather than holding them for the long term. "Most institutional investors, whoever is in charge - whether it's the college treasurer or the trustees of the pension fund of some state - they're buying what they're sold."
Most pension funds probably didn't buy Berkshire in 1965 and hold it, but if they had, they would have far fewer problems today. At the end of her book, Ms. Loomis notes that when she mentioned Mr. Buffett's name for the first time in Fortune magazine in 1966 - accidentally spelling Buffett with only one "t" - Berkshire was trading at $22 a share. Today it is almost $133,000 a share.

        
Berkshire Moves Into Spain With CaixaBank Reinsurance Deal
        
With Jefferies Deal, 'Baby Berkshire' Deviates From Buffett

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ICE CREAM (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (76%); SALES & SELLING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (66%); DANCE (50%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Buffett, Warren E; Stocks and Bonds; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); JON STEWART (50%) Buffett, Warren E

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



91 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: This Week In Small Business: Cliffhanger!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Don't discount! Consumer confidence rises. Small-business confidence falls. And the Onion takes on social media marketing. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The Fiscal Cliff: Tax Moves 
Here's everything you need to know about the fiscal cliff, and here are Grover Norquist's five commandments. President Obama warns that the fiscal cliff could hurt Christmas spending. Keith Hennessey thinks the president is bluffing, and Michael Lind thinks the fiscal cliff is a lie. The president consults with small-business owners and makes his fiscal push at a small business in Pennsylvania. John Paglia says that if Congress can reach a fiscal cliff deal it will spur small-business hiring, and David Sims says the uncertainty provides real opportunities. Here are 10 tax moves to make now. The Fed is likely to keep stimulating into 2013.
 The Holidays: Don't Discount 
Small Business Saturday spending exceeded expectations, according to research from the National Federation of Independent Business and American Express (here is more analysis). Cyber Monday sales soared but Black Friday numbers were down 2 percent this year, despite this huge line that formed at a dollar store. CNN reported that all Americans over the age of 14 went shopping. And now there's Giving Tuesday. Kevin Casey learned four small-business lessons from Black Friday and Cyber Monday, including: "Don't discount." Overall, retail sales declined in November. 
 The Holidays II: Bad News for Daily Deal Sites 
These are the top holiday marketing techniques for the 2012 holiday season. The Brett Domino Trio provides the ultimate Christmas medley. Jill Konrath has some helpful gift-giving suggestions for small-business owners. This infographic helps us understand the habits of holiday shoppers during a recession. This video lays out 30 holiday marketing ideas in 30 minutes. Here are two restaurant tricks that will boost your holiday sales. And there's bad news for daily deal sites: small businesses are not keen on Groupon this holiday season, and LivingSocial lays off 400 employees. Ebenezer Snoop reads a cautionary tale of Christmas. 
 The Economy: G.D.P. Grows 
The Fed's beige book reports weak economic activity. As a fake oil magnate passes away, Texas growth stalls. Economic activity falls in the Chicago region, and manufacturing eases (pdf) in Kansas. Household income stagnates again. Durable goods orders are flat. New home sales fall, but home prices increased 3 percent in the past year. Consumer confidence is at a four-year high, but Wells Fargo sees an "eye-opening" drop in small-business optimism. Here are the 15 best housing markets for the next five years. Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region advanced moderately, and global steel production increased despite overcapacity concerns. Gross domestic product growth was stronger than expected.
 Employees: Giving Away the Store
Here are a few tips to help you put both holiday bonuses and compensation packages in perspective while motivating employees. Pattie Hunt Sinacole helps you determine when "comp time" can be used. Samsung asks its employees not to binge-drink so much during company events. A grocer gives his store to his employees. An employee of the city of Philadelphia almost gets away with a million-dollar ink-and-toner scam. A new Robert Half study finds most bosses are O.K. with employees shopping online while at work. Howard Dion explains how to reduce your risks. Adam Davidson says there is no skills gap.
 Start-Up: The Hottest Start-Up Cities 
Here's some good advice on choosing a market for your start-up, and this is how to craft your hobby into a business. These are the 15 hottest start-up cities in the world, and David Hochman suggests six reasons Los Angeles isbooming with start-ups. Zach Cutler offers six tips for navigating a start-up through the first two years, including: "Be flexible." A new report says that start-ups are leading job creation.
 Social Media: #Hashtag 
Here's some good advice for using LinkedIn's endorsements properly. I.B.M.'s Black Friday report says Twitter delivered zero referral traffic, and Facebook sent just .68 percent. Google is offering a free month of advertising, and Katie Saxon explains how to set up your first Google AdWords campaign. Here's how to use Instagram for business. Mark Shaw offers Twitter tips. A couple names their daughter Hashtag, and an Onion parody explains how to use social media to cover up a lack of knowledge.
 Marketing: R.I.P. Zig 
Seth Godin thanks Zig Ziglar, thesales guru, who passed away this week. Rick Broida has advice on how to hire a graphic-design pro on the cheap. Maria Valdez Haubrich shares tips for using stock imagery: "Don't get too obvious when choosing the images. Try to engage your public, make them think for a second on the illustration, interact with them." A guy teaches his speech class how to communicate using a fake Spanish accent. Robert Passikoff says "saturation leveling" is a marketing trend for 2013. A New York University student inadvertently sends 40,000 e-mails. Laura Hale Brockway offers 19 terrible e-mail subject lines, including: "Register to Win Your FREE iPod!!" Here are the seven most powerful words to persuade. A pricing-solution consultant explains why you are under-pricing your proposals. Here's a helpful introduction to Google Analytics, and this return-on-investment calculator will help you determine if your marketing campaign is working.
 Management: An Instant Board 
Brian Turchin explains how to create an instant board of advisers. An entrepreneur continues his 100-day quest for rejection. Selena Cuffe explains how to make your business meaningful. Laura Spencer and Robbi Hess both write about how to make your day more productive and manage your time better (and with the time saved, you can take a dive into the world's biggest pile of leaves). The team at Women Unlimited shares 10 tips to network your business to the next level. Deb Bailey wonders if getting an M.B.A. can help you become a better entrepreneur. Pamela Yeo, the founder of a start-up that makes jewelry using the metal from deactivated landmines, shares entrepreneurial insights.
 Around the World: The Sexiest Dictator Alive 
Wells Fargo expands its mobile deposit service nationwide and an entrepreneur expands the Lego universe. Two Powerball winners share a $587 million prize. The pet industryis growing. The existence of an "extraordinary global network" of sham company directors, most of them British, is revealed. If you're thinking of doing business in Latin America you may want to avoid these countries. A house stands in the middle of the road in China, and the country's Communist Party newspaper congratulates the North Korean leader on being named "the sexiest man alive." Canada is the ideal country for women starting a business.
 Tech: H.P.'s $9 Billion Disaster 
Microsoft reports 40 million copies of Windows 8 have been sold, but Don Reisinger says that it still has too much "crapware." And a new report says sales of Windows devices are down 21 percent from last year and Windows 8 tablet sales are "almost non-existent." The Chevy Volt now comes with its own application programming interface. David Talbot explains why there is no spectrum crunch. GE Aviation invests heavily in the 3D printing business, and a cool new 3D photo booth distributes figurines in lieu of photos. Tom Foremski is bullish on information technology start-ups. H.P. has a $9 billion disaster. Here are 10 tech trends for 2013. You can now attach 10-gigabyte files to your Gmail messages. A new report claims that Android-based tablets are eating away at the iPad's market share.
 Tweet Of The Week 
@MarshallRamsey - I didn't win the Powerball but some nice man from Nigeria e-mailed to let me know I won their lottery!
 The Week's Bests 
 Brad Farris asks what your team experiences in your presence? "When you are in a place of leadership, sometimes you need to be the person the team needs you to be. The team looks to the leader to set the tone. It's O.K. to be scared, uncertain or doubtful; but you can't give in to those feelings. As the leader, you need to show that you have a plan and are ready to execute that plan, regardless of what you're feeling."
 Todd Wasserman thinks most social media marketing is a waste of time: "The secret to good social media marketing: Make good products and offer good services. If you can't trick people into 'liking' your brand, maybe you can try to make them actually, you know, like your brand. How? Under-promise and over-deliver. Make products and offer services that are really, really good. That's not to say you should completely forsake social media marketing communication. Every once in a while if you have something interesting to say, then by all means use Twitter or Facebook to say it. But stop posting cute pictures of puppies to win cheap likes."
 This Week's Question: What's the perfect holiday gift for a small-business owner?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!
        
This Week in Small Business: Happy Holidays?
        
This Week In Small Business: Frankenstorm!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RETAIL SALES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); RECESSION (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (62%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (61%); HOME PRICES (60%) economy; Small Business; Black Friday and Cyber Monday (Shopping); Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (61%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); LIVINGSOCIAL INC (52%); GROUPON INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (61%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); KEITH HENNESSEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



92 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: From All Sides, Fiscal Plans Fall Far Short of What's Needed

BYLINE: STEVEN RATTNER


HIGHLIGHT: All of the current proposals for dealing with the "fiscal cliff" would fall far short of the $4 trillion over a decade needed to keep the country's debt-to-G.D.P. ratio stable. 

 BODY:
We don't yet know whether our economy will take the icy plunge off the fiscal cliff, but do we know this: At present course and speed, any budget deal that emerges from the intense brinkmanship now under way would fall short of every sensible ambition for fiscal reform.
Forget about balancing the budget. Forget about paying down any of the government's $11 trillion of obligations (the debt owed to the public). Nor will the package currently being discussed achieve the minimal target of centrist deficit hawks (myself among them), that of stabilizing the rate in which the national debt is growing in relation to the economy. 
Battered by four years of trillion-dollar-plus deficits, this has climbed from 36 percent in 2007 to 73 percent at present. Halting its rise would require at least $4 trillion of revenue increases and spending reductions (including the nearly $1 trillion of savings enacted last year) over the next decade.
President Obama has put on the table a package that should be commended for its willingness to both increase taxes on the wealthy and at least dent the mushrooming costs of entitlement programs, most importantly Medicare.
But "scored" fairly, the Obama plan would contribute about $3 trillion to lower projected deficits, at least $1 trillion short of what's needed.
The Republicans are much further from the mark, having not yet even put forward a formal plan. However, none of the intimations from their leaders suggest that their plan will exceed the White House's in size.
While the Republicans have importantly conceded on the need for tax increases, they've vociferously objected to Mr. Obama's proposed $1.6 trillion in added revenue as excessive. On Sunday, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, said that he would support around $800 billion of new revenue over the next decade, similar to what he offered during budget negotiations with Mr. Obama in July. 
And on the spending side, while criticizing Mr. Obama's proposals as too timid, the policy changes that the Republicans have endorsed - such as raising the Medicare retirement age and slowing cost-of-living increases for Social Security - fall well short of Mr. Obama's.
Both sides appear more interested in reaching an understanding that avoids the cliff than in achieving the full range of necessary reforms.
And forget about the huge overhaul of our Rube Goldberg tax system and government spending priorities dreamed about by fiscal reformers. What's likely to emerge will be better described as tweaks, and maybe not so many of those.
The bible of deficit hawks - the report of the Simpson-Bowles commission - now feels quaint, with its talk about rewriting the tax code to eliminate loopholes and lower rates, not to mention its call to revamp federal spending to emphasize investment programs that will aid American competitiveness and growth.
Perhaps a surge of courage will inspire Congress and the White House to embrace more sweeping change.
But the brutal process of stabilizing America's fiscal problem is so charged with political peril, for Congress and the White House alike, that the willingness to go big and to go bold seems likely only to diminish as the cliff steadily approaches.
A capsule summary with this article misstated the amount of savings needed to address the deficit shortfall. Proposals for the "fiscal cliff" would fall short of the necessary $4 trillion over a decade, not in a year.

        
Death of an Omnibus
        
A Deficit of Respect
        
A Republican for Higher Taxes
        
Victory Speeches
        
Is Less Defense the Best Offense?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); POLITICS (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%) federal budget; taxes; the "fiscal cliff"; United States Economy; Obama, Barack; Federal Budget (US); Taxation; United States Politics and Government; Steven Rattner

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); STEVEN RATTNER (51%); JOHN BOEHNER (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



93 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Smithsonian: The strange, sweet stench of the durian fruit, explained. -- Julia Moskin
Westchester Magazine: One of the Hudson River restaurants that got badly slammed by Hurricane Sandy -- MP Taverna, the new Michael Psilakis spot in Irvington, N.Y. -- scores a four-star rave from the magazine, even though a beer was accidentally dumped on the reviewer's noggin. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Post: The paper says health advisers to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo are calling for higher taxes on liquor sales and restrictions on the hours for drinking establishments, among several changes designed to curb teen drinking and binge drinking by adults. The proposals would require approval by the governor, the legislature and local governments. -- Maria Newman
The Nation: An investigative report on the impact of hydraulic fracturing on farmers' livestock, and its potential to affect humans. Animals have developed neurological, reproductive and gastrointestinal problems after being exposed to fracking chemicals in the water or air. But slaughterhouses are not testing for drilling compounds. - Glenn Collins 
The New Yorker: The Germans eat pickled herring. The Vietnamese drink wax-gourd juice, and the Scots prefer Irn-Bru, a beverage advertised as "Your Other National Drink." Many are the ways of handling a hangover, and science is working on the problem, too. -- Patrick Farrell
Condé Nast Traveler: Is the Big Easy ready for a Louisiana take on molecular gastronomy? -- Jeff Gordinier 
: We finally find out what President Obama and Mitt Romney talked about over lunch at the White House. Hint: They both think milk can never be too cold with a brownie, and they're both "Lisztomania" fans. -- Maria Newman
Smithsonian: Everything you never wanted to know about why peanut butter is the perfect home for salmonella: a follow-up to the shutdown of the nation's largest organic peanut-butter processor after people were sickened by Trader Joe's Creamy Salted Valencia peanut butter. - Glenn Collins
The New Yorker: Imagining a new array of health department letter ratings to help consumers deal with a strange new dining world. They include PT, for "Pork Tattoo" -- a warning that "the restaurant's chef has an irreverent pork-related tattoo on his right shoulder." (Subscription required.) -- Patrick Farrell
: This recipe for chicken braised in hard cider, tomato sauce, and cream is more than the sum of its parts. -- Julia Moskin
New York: This holiday season, fruitcake's classier cousin, German stollen, gets a second look from Christina Tosi and other bakers. -- Patrick Farrell 
Nation's Restaurant News: A monthly survey of the nation's restaurant operators reveals growing pessimism about the economy and the possibility for sales growth. Their optimism has sunk to the lowest level in 14 months. - Glenn Collins 
The New York Post: Applebee's plans to open a "green" restaurant in Harlem with waterless urinals, rainwater collected on the rooftop and an interior wall of plants -- "a new standard for what a restaurant will look like and what the industry will do," says the chain's chief executive. -- Patrick Farrell
Outside: Useful insight from Timothy Ferriss on how to roast a squirrel over an open fire. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); POULTRY PROCESSING (72%); HURRICANE SANDY (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (58%); BACTERIA (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%); MITT ROMNEY (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



94 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: The Debt Limit Is the Real Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: If the Republican leadership fails to negotiate in good faith over the ceiling on federal debt, President Obama should look to extraordinary powers to stabilize the nation's outlook, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Washington is all abuzz over the impending tax increases and spending cuts referred to as the fiscal cliff, an absurdly inaccurate term that both Democrats and Republicans have unfortunately adopted in order to pursue their own agendas. In truth, it is a nonproblem unless every impending tax increase and spending cut takes effect permanently - something so unlikely as to be effectively impossible. 
In my opinion, the fiscal cliff is akin to the so called Y2K problem in late 1999, when many people worried that computers would freeze, elevators would stop running and planes would fall from the sky. Of course, nothing of the kind happened. 
So if the fiscal cliff is a faux problem, why do we hear that industry and financial markets are deeply fearful of it? The answer is that there is a very real fiscal problem that will occur almost simultaneously - expiration of the debt limit. Much of what passes for fiscal-cliff concern is actually anxiety about whether Republicans in Congress will force a default on the nation's debt in pursuit of their radical agenda.
No less an authority than the anti-tax activist Grover Norquist, who basically controls the Republican Party's fiscal policy, has said repeatedly that the debt limit is where the real fight will be over the next several weeks. In a Nov. 28 interview with Politico's Mike Allen, he was asked about the leverage President Obama has over Republicans in the fiscal-cliff debate. Mr. Norquist replied that Republicans have vastly more leverage when it comes to the debt limit. 
MR. NORQUIST: Well, the Republicans also have other leverage, continuing resolutions on spending and the debt ceiling increase. They can give him debt-ceiling increases once a month. They can have him on a rather short leash, on a small - you know, here's your allowance, come back next month if you've behaved.
MR. ALLEN: O.K., O.K., wait. You're proposing that the debt ceiling be increased month by month?
MR. NORQUIST: Monthly. Monthly. Monthly if he's good, weekly if he's not. I mean, look, it's an accordion, it's an accordion, because if you're really - well, that's what they did - remember the first few months of the Obama - when the Republicans took the House and the Senate - took the House, they said, "O.K., here's two weeks of continuing resolutions because you have saved $4 billion. Oh, now you've agreed to $8 billion in savings, you may have four weeks." And they basically did - and what happened with the freshmen - remember, the Tea Party guys who just came in said: "This is taking too long. Let's ask for it all." And as soon as you asked for it all, you only got half of what you asked for, whereas you were getting everything you wanted. You were doing three yards in a cloud of dust, and you had - now, all those freshmen, newbie Tea Party guys are veterans. They would understand this time around why three yards in a cloud of dust for seven months is winning.
In short, the debt limit is a hostage that Republicans are willing to kill or maim in pursuit of their agenda. They have made this clear ever since the debt ceiling debate in 2011, in which the Treasury came very close to defaulting on the debt. 
As Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader, explained: 
I think some of our members may have thought the default issue was a hostage you might take a chance at shooting. Most of us didn't think that. What we did learn is this - it's a hostage that's worth ransoming.
At the risk of stating the obvious, the debt limit is nuts. It serves no useful purpose to allow members of Congress to vote for vast cuts in taxation and increases in spending and then tell the Treasury it is not permitted to sell bonds to cover the deficits Congress created. To my knowledge, no other nation has such a screwy system.
Nevertheless, we have a debt limit that is denominated in dollar terms; it is breached when the debt subject to limit, which includes bonds the government itself holds in various trust funds, rises above that limit. Currently, it is $16.394 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that given current spending and revenue trends, that figure will be reached before the end of the year.
At that point, Treasury will have to take extraordinary and costly measures to avoid technically hitting the debt ceiling. But these measures provide only a month or so of breathing room. At some point, Treasury will lack the cash to pay the bills that are due and it will face nothing but unthinkable choices - don't pay interest to bondholders and default on the debt, don't pay Social Security benefits, don't pay our soldiers in the field and so on.
In a new book, "Is U.S. Government Debt Different?," Howell Jackson, a law professor at Harvard, walks through options for prioritizing government spending in the event that Republicans insist on committing financial suicide. They are all illegal or unconstitutional to one degree or another. They would require the Treasury to either abrogate Congress's taxing power, spending power or borrowing power.
In the October issue of the Columbia Law Review, Professors Neil H. Buchanan of the George Washington University Law School and Michael C. Dorf of Cornell Law School examine the question of what a president should do when he must act and all his options are unconstitutional. They cite Abraham Lincoln's July 4, 1861, message to Congress in support of the idea that some laws are more unconstitutional than others and the president is empowered to violate the one that is least unconstitutional when he has no other option.
Said Lincoln, "To state the question more directly, are all the laws, but one, to go unexecuted, and the government itself go to pieces, lest that one be violated?"
In the present case, of course, the one law would be the debt limit, which Professors Buchanan and Dorf say is less binding on the president than unilaterally cutting spending or raising taxes without congressional approval. Hence, if Republicans are truly mad and absolutely refuse to raise the debt limit, thereby risking default or the nonpayment of essential government bills, Professors Buchanan and Dorf believe the president would have the authority to sell bonds over and above the limit.
There are a host of practical problems any time the president is forced into uncharted constitutional territory, as Lincoln so often was. But when faced with an extortion demand from a political party that no longer feels bound by the historical norms of conduct, the president must be willing to do what has to be done.

        
The 'Go Fast' and 'Go Big' Fiscal Challenges
        
The Fiscal Legacy of George W. Bush
        
Defining Economic Interest
        
The 'Fiscal Cliff' Opportunity
        
Fiscal Confrontation Undermines the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BAD FAITH (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); WRITERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAX REFORM (71%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (54%) Bruce Bartlett; Daily Economist; debt ceiling; deficit; fiscal cliff; Lincoln; national debt; politics; spending; spending cuts; taxes; Tea Party; Norquist, Grover G; Federal Budget (US); National Debt (US); United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%) Norquist, Grover G

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



95 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Winner Lose All

BYLINE: JONATHAN BLITZER


HIGHLIGHT: In Catalonia's election, soaring talk about the region's independence drowned out a much-needed discussion about taxes. 

 BODY:
MADRID - The results of last week's regional elections in Catalonia aren't what they seem.
The victory of the region's conservative president, Artur Mas, was pyrrhic. His party did retain a majority in the Catalan Parliament, but it lost 12 seats in the process, leaving it without the absolute majority Mas envisioned in September when he called for early elections.
Yet if Mas himself got burned, the cause he peddled on the campaign trail surged: the case for Catalonia's independence was the election's clear winner. Of the 135 legislators in the Catalan Generalitat, 107 included in their political platforms the "right to decide," a euphemism for calling a referendum on whether the region should eventually secede from Spain. The nationalist party Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which has doubled its seats in the Parliament, will now lead the opposition, and is likely to find common cause with Mas on the issue.

This outcome ought to make the central government in Madrid adopt a more conciliatory tone on a regional referendum. But independence remains very unlikely, and so the issue is becoming a distraction. Meanwhile, all the deafening headlines about it have drowned out the conversation that politicians should be having about how to make Spain more equitable at the regional level. 
The country's 17 autonomous regions do not have equal responsibilities. Catalonia enjoys more privileges than many, but only the Basque country and Navarre get to collect and administer their own taxes. These differences are the result of a series of ad hoc arrangements - known as café para todos (coffee for everybody) - that the central government and the different regions made in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Back then, Spain was emerging from nearly four decades of dictatorship and regional support was critical for the country's fledgling democratic consensus.
At first the central government intended to grant wide-ranging prerogatives to three historically recognized nationalities: Catalonia, the Basque country and Galicia. But when other regions also clamored for special treatment, the government caved, creating an inconsistent array of concessions.
One of the most contentious issues today is the disparity in regional budgets. In the United States, citizens pay state and federal taxes, which means that at least some of the money goes directly from them to state governments. Not so in Spain, even though here "social expenditures are highly decentralized," said Joan Costa-i-Font, a senior lecturer in political economy at the London School of Economics.
The regions of Spain depend almost entirely on revenue from the central government. This means that in good times regional governments are often heedless of the political consequences of running high debts, according to Jorge Galindo Alfonso, one of the authors of a report on the subject. And in bad times wealthy regions like Catalonia cry foul over the fiscal deficits that result from their giving more money to the central government than they get in return in the form of public investment.
Some 80 percentof Catalans feel they hand over too much to the central government in taxes. In fact, Greater Madrid and the Balearic Islands have higher fiscal deficits than Catalonia. That the people of those regions aren't outraged like Catalans is evidence that nationalism backlights these issues on the Catalan stage.
Ever since 1980, some nominal feint toward independence has been the sine qua non of political viability in Catalonia. Central governments in Madrid, by turns bullish and half-heartedly conciliatory, have made matters worse.
Technical fixes would hardly quell Catalan disgruntlement, which runs much deeper. But they would at least level the uneven terrain that underlies debates about scattershot regional privileges. This is the idea behind what some have called Autonomy 2.0.
The Socialists came closest to discussing the nuts-and-bolts of this idea ahead of the Catalan elections - and they suffered the worst defeat of all. That's partly because they have a checkered history of opportunism in Catalonia. But mostly, with this election overwhelmingly cast as a choice for or against independence, they struggled to stake out a middle position. Reforming the structure of government hardly squares with the poetry of campaign slogans.

        
Quebec's Near Win
        
The Swan Song of Spanish Socialism
        
On Democracy in Spain
        
The Princelings of India
        
Gul Unleashed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BUDGETS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); TRENDS (62%) Artur Mas; Catalonia; Elections; Parties (Social); politics and government; Spain; Mas, Artur; Basques; Economic Conditions and Trends; Legislatures and Parliaments; Referendums; London School of Economics; Catalonia (Spain); Galicia (Spain); Madrid (Spain); Europe

ORGANIZATION: London School of Economics

PERSON: Mas, Artur

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (94%); GALICIA, SPAIN (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Catalonia (Spain); Galicia (Spain); Madrid (Spain); Spain

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



96 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: What the Doha Climate Talks Could Do for Sustainable Development

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER F. SCHUETZE


HIGHLIGHT: A little-known "global environmental currency" is already helping to sustain some projects that might not be economically viable without it. 

 BODY:
While participants at last year's climate meeting in Durban, South Africa, agreed on an extension of the troubled Kyoto Protocol, it is at this year's meeting in Doha, Qatar, that policy makers have to agree on the pesky details, including long-term emission reduction goals.
As my colleague John Broderreported last week, the outlook is not entirely rosy. And the stakes have grown even greater as scientists report a record level of carbon dioxide emissions in 2011, a level that is growing so rapidly that an international goal of limiting the ultimate warming of the planet, established three years ago, is on the verge of becoming unattainable. 
Some of the major industrial players - and heaviest polluters - such as Russia, Canada and Japan, have already made it known that they will not sign on again to the climate deal. The United States never ratified the protocol, and China - currently holding the title as world's number one climate polluter - is listed as a developing country and therefore not yet subject to binding emission caps. (Our colleagues at India Ink reported on India's role in current and the Kyoto Protocol negotiations).
But activists and some green business people are calling attention to an oft-forgotten mechanism that allows emission-reducing development projects in non-Kyoto compliant countries to earn carbon credits.
The so-called Clean Development Mechanism (or C.D.M. for the initiated) can benefit projects from the development of clean-burning ethanol stoves in Mozambique to wind farms in China. Because credits earned by building these green projects in the developing world can be sold on the open market, it is often the very thing that allows such projects to exist.
"It's selling those offset credits that balances the books," said Assaad Razzouk[#x2028], the chief executive of Sindicatum Sustainable Resources, one of a group of green energy companies lobbying to keep the Clean Development Mechanism on the agenda in Doha.
At its Deurping project in Shanxi Province in China, Sindicatum has invested some $60 million to help convert methane gas - the very polluting byproduct of coal mining - into electricity. While the electricity itself can be sold back to the grid, it isn't enough to cover the cost of the investment, according to Mr. Razzouk.
Under the C.D.M. system, supervised by the United Nations, projects are awarded Certified Emission Reductions (or C.E.R.s), which can then be sold to the European Emissions Trading System, for example, to offset, say, airline pollution in Europe.
The U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change saysthe system has helped offset over one billion tons of carbon dioxide pollution since it was put into place in 2004 by accrediting Certified Emission Reductions produced by more than 5,000 development projects worldwide. They include reforestation in the Guangxi watershed in China and waste-to-energy projects in Cote d'Ivoire ( see some compelling projects - for a map of the registered projects receiving C.E.R.'s go here - for extensive stats on the CDM click here).
"It has created the first global environmental currency," said David Abbass of the Framework Convention on Climate Change secretariat in a telephone interview from Doha.
For Sindicatum's methane-converting venture in Duerping, the Certified Emissions Reductions generate some 40 percent of the revenue, which helps to make the sustainable project financially viable too, Mr. Razzouk said.
However, this month the price of a single C.E.R. has dropped well below (EURO)1, or $1.30, from one-time high of nearly (EURO)14 in early 2010 (for more market numbers, check here). There are myriad reasons for the precipitous drop in price. Corporate buyers, for example, can only use a certain percentage of Clean Development Mechanism-generated carbon offsets to balance their pollution, limiting the demand for C.E.R.s. With Russia and other Eastern European countries possibly being able to sell their overstock of old carbon-offset credits, they are available cheaply elsewhere, increasing the supply.
However, the fact that the future of a global emissions cap-and-trade system is at a crucial point in negotiation is perhaps the most responsible for bringing down the price of Certified Emission Reductions, experts say. But the growing need to offset carbon emissions may ensure a future for this "environmental currency" and work for sustainable development projects.

        
As Doha Climate Talks Convene, Report Finds Broken Promises

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (85%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); METHANE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); LOBBYING (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); WIND ENERGY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); WIND POWER PLANTS (70%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); REFORESTATION (65%); ETHANOL (64%); ALCOHOLS (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ACCREDITATION (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); COAL MINING (50%) Carbon offset; Clean Development Mechanism; COP18; Deurping; development projects; Doha; Durban; EU ETS; Kyoto Protocol; UNFCCC; Featured; Sustainability

COMPANY: INDIA INK (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); SOUTH CHINA (76%); GUANGXI, CHINA (56%); SHANXI, CHINA (56%) CHINA (94%); QATAR (93%); INDIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



97 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: How Much Homework Does It Take to Educate a Nation?

BYLINE: JOYCE LAU


HIGHLIGHT: Which system is better: a European model that encourages equality, creativity and a healthy lifestyle or an Asian model that focuses on technical skills and concrete results? Students: Where would you rather study? Parents: Where would you want your children to be? 

 BODY:
Finland and South Korea's school systems are practically polar opposites.
Finland's is typically Scandinavian - relaxed, humane, egalitarian and state-financed. Children have short school days, minimal homework and a balanced view toward extracurricular activities. Public schooling is free, even in university and even for foreigners. Private tutors are usually only for students who genuinely need the extra help. 
South Korea's is draconian by comparison. For 90 percent of primary school students, long school days are followed by tutoring. (This is typical in affluent parts of East Asia. The same goes for 85 percent of Hong Kong students and a staggering 97 percent of young Singaporeans).
The focus is on exam results, rote learning, discipline and even punishment. For years, some summer cram schools have kept students working from 6:30 a.m. until midnight.The system is also money-driven. After the United States, South Korea has the world's most expensive universities. The cost of celebrity private tutors puts pressure on both the parents who pay for them, and the children who feel they must perform to get their money's worth.
There can be another price paid. As my colleague Mark McDonald reported last year, student suicides roiled the Korean Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, the prestigious university known as Kaist. "Day after day we are cornered into an unrelenting competition that smothers and suffocates us," the student council wrote at the time. "We couldn't even spare 30 minutes for our troubled classmates because of all our homework.''
But somehow, through entirely different means, Finland and South Korea have achieved the same end: excellent education systems.
On the latest IHT Education Page, I report on new research by Pearson and the Economist Intelligence Unit, which selected Finland and South Korea as the only two countries in the top band of its Global Index of Cognitive Skills and Educational Attainment. 
"It is hard to find two education systems more different," the report said.
The ranking is based on test scores, literacy and graduation rates. Here are the top 10:
1. Finland
2. South Korea
3. Hong Kong
4. Japan
5. Singapore
6. Britain
7. The Netherlands
8. New Zealand
9. Switzerland
10. Canada
East Asian states - with their obsessive, high-stress approach toward education - dominated the top five. The United States ranked 17th. 
 Which system is better: a European model that encourages equality, creativity and a healthy lifestyle, or an Asian model that focuses on technical skills and concrete results? Students: Where would you rather study? Parents: Where would you want your children to be?

        
Red Bull Strong Again; Attendance Lags in Korea
        
Excitable Boy, They All Said
        
Symbolism and Numerology in North Korean Rocketry
        
Figure in Petraeus Scandal Seen Losing Her Post as Honorary Consul
        
Advice to Foreign Students: Have Some Fun

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); HOMEWORK (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); RANKINGS (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); LITERACY RATES (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (67%); SUICIDE (65%) Education (K-12); Finland; South Korea; Education

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (91%); SINGAPORE (90%); FINLAND (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CANADA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (78%) Finland; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



98 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Updates a Decades-Old Water Quality Standard

BYLINE: EMMA BRYCE


HIGHLIGHT: The agency cannot require states to enforce the standard, but some say the new guidelines come at a time when water quality is very much on people's minds. 

 BODY:
Last week the Environmental Protection Agency issued a new set of water quality guidelines for monitoring bacterial outbreaks in inland and coastal waters used frequently by recreational swimmers. The standard was last updated in 1986. The move was prompted by a federal court order and a requirement of the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal Health Act of 2000.
But the E.P.A. can't enforce the new standard. It's up to individual states to decide whether to use the guidelines. 
Ellen Gilinsky, senior policy adviser from the agency's Office of Water, said the E.P.A. hoped that states would use "this guidance to strengthen their water quality standards, enhance efforts to prevent contamination of recreational waters, monitor recreational waters more frequently and provide warnings more quickly."
Although some states are likely to be slow or reluctant to adopt the changes, Gregory O'Mullan, a professor of microbiology at Queens College in Flushing, said the real value of the guidelines was that they established a higher standard at a time when water quality - especially after Hurricane Sandy - was on people's minds.

With developers favoring riverfront and seafront construction in recent decades, people have become increasingly accustomed to living along or using waterways and forming a personal connection to them. At the same time, Hurricane Sandy underlined the perils of proximity, from the destruction of buildings to sewage treatment plant overflows.
"There's growing appreciation that what happened with Sandy may not be an isolated event," Mr. O'Mullan said. "What is in our waterways is not always something that remains at arm's length."
The new guidelines, based on several health studies, suggest that a wider array of illnesses than previously recognized are caused by the presence of bacteria like E.coli in coastal and inland waters.
One important new recommendation calls for more frequent testing, every 30 days instead of the current 90 days. The move, Mr. O'Mullan said, is expected to help officials pinpoint and respond more rapidly to the effects of episodic events like flooding or sewage overflows that sully the waters where people swim.
The E.P.A. has also approved a new DNA-based method for water monitoring that is faster than the older method, which takes a full day to process. "It's particularly frustrating to tell people, 'Well, we can tell you what the water was like yesterday, but not today,' " Mr. O'Mullan said.
The agency's decision to provide two thresholds for measurements of water quality - a more moderate one that allows for higher concentrations of bacteria in the water, and a stricter marker that deems a more limited concentration of water-borne bacteria acceptable - has drawn criticism from environmental organizations. The groups argue that the two thresholds will encourage states to opt for the less stringent one.
Ms.Gilinsky said that over all, the new criteria are intended "to strengthen public health protections for beachgoers while giving states the flexibility to use the science-based standards and methods that best suit their needs and resources." But some groups say this allows for too much flexibility.
Water quality has been at the center of a controversy in Florida, where nitrogen and phosphorus from failed septic tanks, manure or fertilizer runoff have caused an explosion of algal blooms in rivers. The resulting green sludge is a potential threat to public health and local economies. Environmentalists sued the E.P.A., arguing that it should have imposed more stringent regulations on the state because of its mammoth algae problem.
In a settlement, the agency agreed to impose stricter enforcement and opened negotiations with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection on what rules should be applied. On Friday, the E.P.A. proposed enforcement of a combination of state and federal rules.
While Mr. O'Mullan said such battles show there is "room for a larger step" in cleaning up water pollution, he views the new standard with some optimism. "I would hope that states would choose to be more protective than less," he said.
But even if they opt for the more lenient approach, he said, the guidelines will encourage awareness and debate. "When a state chooses to select values that are less stringent than these guidelines, they are going to have to make a strong argument for it and explain it to the people who are being protected," he said.
There are other justifications for applying a tougher standard. Investment in the infrastructure to treat wastewater has led to improvements in water quality that have in turn given people more confidence to take to the waterways, Mr. O'Mullan noted.
As a result, he said, "people are coming into contact with the water in places where they wouldn't have 20 years ago, and that makes updating of these standards absolutely critical."

        
Pressure Grows for Answers on Fracking
        
The Tricky Business of Counting Rain
        
How Foul is Your Favorite Beach?
        
Q. and A.: The Most Endangered Rivers
        
An Enemy in Your Sand Castle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); E COLI (89%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (89%); BACTERIA (89%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); BEACHES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); POLLUTION MONITORING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (78%); WATER QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); BIOLOGY (73%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%) algal blooms; E. coli; Environmental Protection Agency; Florida; water quality; Water; Queens College, City University of New York; United States; Living; Oceans; Politics and Policy; Rivers; Science; Water Pollution

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%) Environmental Protection Agency; Queens College, City University of New York

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



99 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: A Couple at a Crossroads: How to Build?

BYLINE: ROB HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Building a home with a spouse means coming to an agreement on countless decisions. When part of the goal is environmental responsibility, it gets even more complicated. 

 BODY:
1
My wife, Julia, and I are fast approaching the end of an internship that involves building a straw bale house in Moab, Utah, with the nonprofit Community Rebuilds. We took this four-month volunteer position to gain experience in constructing someone else's affordable green home before beginning to build our own on land Julia's family owns near Woodstock, N.Y.
Until recently, however, we've both been conspicuously avoiding talking seriously about our building plan. Julia and I don't necessarily agree on what kind of home we want, or how to make it happen, and we know it. 
We've heard that building a home involves making thousands of decisions and that building a home with your spouse means having to come to an agreement on most of them. Owner-builder how-to guides note that more than a few marriages have broken up in the process, which is the last thing we want. 
Our first disagreement is over size. I grew up in a two-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn, while Julia grew up in a sizable house in Woodstock that her parents expanded over the years.

My instinct is to build small because it will be cheaper and more manageable to do by ourselves. I don't want building a house to make us lifelong slaves to debt, and I dream of building one step at a time without taking a bank loan. 
Small also appeals because it's more environmentally responsible: Fewer materials, less of a footprint on the land, and less energy to heat and cool.
Julia's instinct is to build a home that we and the two children we hope to have can live in comfortably. It's important to her that the kids ultimately each have their own rooms, and that we include a spare bedroom that doubles as an office. She'd like a bathroom for us, one for the kids and a half-bath off the living room.
I want to build small and manageable at first, then add space in the future to suit our needs. 
Julia would rather take longer to build one house once. Even though it will cost more up front, she argues, it will ultimately cost less to go through the construction process only one time and then be done with it. She is not afraid of debt and wants to take advantage of the low interest rates available these days.
Because her parents went through multiple home renovations of their house as she grew up in it, she knows what it's like to live in a construction site and does not look forward to doing it again. 
Lastly, and probably accurately, she says we will probably have our first child, and maybe even our second, by the time the house is finished.
Another sticking point for us is what kind of home we build. Before we came out to Moab to learn straw bale construction, we spent some time touring other owner-built green homes in upstate New York. In the process, we stumbled across three different wooden kit homes purchased from FirstDay Cottages. 
Exposed wood covered the interior space, giving it a warm, natural, cozy feeling. Two of the kit homes had a vaulted ceiling design that gave Julia and me the impression we were in the hull of an old ship.
The kit homes were made almost entirely of real wood from New Hampshire, with no plywood, particleboard or drywall. My priority is to build from a relatively local (the wood would be shipped less than 200 miles to Woodstock), sustainable material, and Julia's is to live in a home without gassing chemicals or formaldehyde in the walls. The FirstDay Cottages accomplish both.
These affordable 960- to 1,840-square-foot homes are designed to be built by owners with no construction experience.
We visited a college professor, his wife and their two kids. Over the course of a year or two, they built an entire two-story 1,400-square-foot home with radiant floor heating, hiring only a local high school student to help on the weekends. I don't recall exactly how much they said it cost, but it was in the neighborhood of $100,000. 
The passive solar design and insulation were so good that on the day we visited it was nearly freezing outside and they hadn't needed to turn on the heating system. Julia and I were both impressed.
But as our straw bale building experience in Moab has progressed, I have leaned away from wanting a kit house mainly because it takes much of the creativity out of the house design process. It limits the possibilities at precisely the time I am being introduced to all kinds of creative ideas about natural building from the straw bale community, an inherently experimental crowd.
For Julia, however, the expanding range of possibilities for our home has had the opposite effect. She worries that too many options will mean we never make choices and move forward. She embraces the idea of a kit house to make this enormous undertaking more manageable.
Also, now that we are deep into plastering, the most labor-intensive part of straw bale construction, Julia has decided she doesn't really enjoy it that much. She prefers the mathematical precision of carpentry over the mysterious alchemy of mixing natural plasters and the subjective artistry of applying it to a wall.
For me, plastering has been a learning experience with innumerable frustrations punctuated by the occasional euphoria of a breakthrough. 
I like the sustainable design underpinning straw bale construction; namely, using local, cheap and abundant natural building materials to make a super-insulated energy-efficient home. I also like the look and feel of a finished straw bale house. So, perhaps bullheadedly, I've approached plastering as a challenge to be conquered, no matter the odds.
While these differences have floated to the surface, we've also begun finding common ground.
Kelly Ray Mathews, a straw bale builder from Durango, Colo., who is our plaster instructor, offered up an old adage from the building trades.
"You can build fast. You can build cheap. You can build well. Pick two," he said. With lots of money, you can hire professionals to build a quality house quickly. Otherwise, either settle for rapid but shoddy work, or take your time and figure out ways to build well on the cheap.
Julia and I agree that cheap and well-built is the path we are shooting for.
One Saturday, our building instructor, Eric Plourde, led us on a tour of several owner-built straw bale homes around Moab to get a feel for different design possibilities.
Tom Noce spent seven years building his. One reason it took so long was that his eclectic yet remarkably tasteful interior was cobbled together by combing Craigslist year after year in search of just the right used doors, countertops, tile, etc. 
Julia and I think the long-term hunt for used and salvaged building materials is a great idea. It saves money, and building with recycled stuff is inherently green.
We also visited Michelle Wiley's straw bale home. Aside from framing, she did most of the rest of the work herself, including building benches, platforms and shelves and creating all sorts of artful details out of cobb covered in earthen plaster. It wouldn't be too difficult for us to add similar details to our home for next to nothing.
Our last stop was Ranna Bieschke's straw bale home. One wing had an exposed post-and-beam structural system. Julia and I loved the way these beautiful hunks of wood looked next to the plaster walls. Perhaps we could mill some of the trees on our land into posts for our home.
Faced with the evidence of successful owner-built homes, after the tour Julia and I began to believe we might actually be able to do it ourselves.
One day we were getting ready to leaving the construction site after a long day when we struck up a conversation with Kelly, the straw bale builder from Colorado, about our house-building worries. He commiserated with us, having built his own home with his wife.
"Never try to build your dream home," Kelly said. He has seen many of his clients' dreams shattered by the difficulty and expense of building, even if the end result is a perfectly nice house. Relationships get frayed in the process, he said.
Kelly advised us to think of the project as a job and not a lifestyle, avoiding the common trap of feeling like you need to be working on your house every waking hour. "My wife and I took vacations from our house," he said.
Come up with a simple, workable design, he said, do the best you can, and enjoy the process, knowing that neither of you will get all that you want out of it.
After Julia strolled away, he leaned toward me and said with a grin, "And do yourself a favor, just let her pick the colors."

Earlier versions of this post and the caption below misspelled the surname of the plastering instructor advising volunteers for Community Rebuilds. He is Kelly Ray Mathews, not Matthews. 

        
First Things First: An Efficient Abode
        
The Straw Bale Dilemma: How Smooth Is Smooth?
        
At One With the Earth, and the Clients
        
Sweaty Lessons in the 'True' Cost of Construction
        
From the Ground Up: An Adventure Begins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); EMISSIONS (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Architecture; Community Rebuilds; construction; Energy Efficiency; From the Ground Up; Building (Construction); Environment; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Community Rebuilds (Moab, Utah); Moab (Utah); Woodstock (NY); Efficiency; Emissions Reduction; Living; Renewable energy

ORGANIZATION: Community Rebuilds (Moab, Utah)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Moab (Utah); Woodstock (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



100 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Don't Encourage Students to Skip College

BYLINE: RICK WARTZMAN and RANDYE HODER


HIGHLIGHT: Even for most "risk-embracing mavericks," foregoing college based on optimistic anecdotes of success is not a sensible option. 

 BODY:
Kobe Bryant and LeBron James didn't go to college at all. Carmelo Anthony attended Syracuse University, but for only a year. All three are now superstars in the N.B.A., earning tens of millions of dollars. So does this mean that we should encourage our 14-year-old hoops-loving son to take a shot at a similar path and see if he can make it as a professional basketball player?
Of course not. We'd be incredibly irresponsible, if not utterly delusional, if we suggested to him that this was a smart move. 
Yet more and more college-aged children may well be tempted to try the business-world equivalent of an N.B.A. pipe dream, looking to become the next Steve Jobs, Bill Gates or Mark Zuckerberg - all of whom found fame and fortune without a college diploma. The "who needs a degree?" chorus is getting louder and louder, as illustrated by a provocative piece in Sunday's New York Times that features artwork depicting four young people whose sweatshirts spell out "College Is for Suckers."
"Feeling squeezed by a sagging job market and mounting student debt, a groundswell of university-age heretics are pledging allegiance to new groups like UnCollege, dedicated to 'hacking' higher education," the article notes. "Inspired by billionaire role models . . . they consider themselves a D.I.Y. vanguard, committed to changing the perception of dropping out from a personal failure to a sensible option, at least for a certain breed of risk-embracing maverick."
Even for most "risk-embracing mavericks," forgoing college is not a sensible option. The odds that you can find career success without a sheepskin in today's knowledge-based economy may not be as long as playing in the N.B.A., but they're plenty daunting nonetheless. The latest numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that among those age 25 or older with only a high school degree, the unemployment rate is 8.4 percent. That compares with 6.9 percent for those with some college and just 3.8 percent for those with a bachelor's degree or higher. Over their lifetimes, meanwhile, those with college degrees can expect to earn far more than their peers with only a high school education - about $450,000 for someone who started college in 2010, according to researchers at the Brookings Institution.
With the soaring cost of higher education - a burden we understand full well with a daughter attending a $58,000-a-year private college and student loans to help foot the bill - it's tempting for parents to embrace the anecdotal evidence of degree-less success in Silicon Valley, Silicon Alley and elsewhere. But the data doesn't support the optimistic vision. "The bottom line is this: while college may be 50 percent more expensive now than it was 30 years ago, the increase to lifetime earnings that a college degree brings is 75 percent higher," two Brookings analysts explained recently. "In short, the cost of college is growing, but the benefits of college - and, by extension, the cost of not going to college - are growing even faster."
In Sunday's Times piece, some maintained that plunging into the "real world" is the best teacher of all. "Education isn't a four-year program," remarked one 22-year-old university-dropout-turned-software-engineer. "It's a mind-set." College, more than anywhere else, encourages exactly that kind of thinking. It's a wonderful gateway to lifelong learning, teaching people to think critically, accept new ideas and try all kinds of new things. A Pew Research Center survey of more than 2,000 adults last year found that among those who graduated from a four-year college, 74 percent said their education was very useful in helping them grow intellectually, and 69 percent said it was very useful in helping them grow and mature as a person.
Not everyone is a good match for an ivy-covered campus. A robust technical- and community-college system is another important part of a high-functioning knowledge society, as are the growing number of online education options highlighted in the Times article. 
But, as parents, let's not delude ourselves. If your son or daughter tells you that he or she wants your support in quitting college and starting the next high-flying, high-tech enterprise, you'd be wise to respond this way: "Sure. As soon as you beat Kobe Bryant in one-on-one."

        
Poor Women and Children Faced With Fiscal Threat
        
How to Write a College Application Essay
        
Mother of the Year
        
'Worst Toy Awards' Target Lego Friends
        
Do Gender-Neutral Gifts Still Elude Parents?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); PARENTING (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); NEW ECONOMY (67%); STATISTICS (66%) Colleges and Universities; Parenting; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (74%); LEBRON JAMES (73%); BILL GATES (53%); STEVEN JOBS (53%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



101 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Romney Campaign Manager Says He Regrets Immigration Stance

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's campaign manager said that the forceful posture taken against immigration in the Republican primary inflicted lingering damage with Latino voters in the general election. 

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. - Mitt Romney and his team are not eager to dwell on regrets.
But his campaign manager now says that the forceful posture taken against immigration in the Republican primary inflicted lingering damage with Latino voters in the general election.
The Romney campaign chief, Matt Rhoades, acknowledged that point during a forum here at the Harvard University Institute of Politics, where advisers to all candidates in the 2012 campaign gathered to discuss the race. 
When asked directly whether Mr. Romney regretted tacking to the right on immigration to appeal to conservative primary voters, the room fell silent.
Stuart Stevens, a senior strategist to Mr. Romney, shook his head no. But after pausing for several seconds, Mr. Rhoades said, "I regret that."

He went on to explain that the campaign, in hindsight, had been too worried about a potential threat from Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who jumped into the race to challenge Mr. Romney as the jobs-and-economy candidate. For weeks in fall 2011, Mr. Romney hammered Mr. Perry on Social Security, particularly his calling the program a "Ponzi scheme" that should be overtaken by state governments.
In retrospect," Mr. Rhoades said, "I believe that we could have probably just beaten Governor Perry with the Social Security hit."
One month after Election Day, advisers in both parties are still studying President Obama's victory by an Electoral College margin of 332 to 206. One of the examinations took place last week at Harvard University, where strategists gathered for a conference that has been held after every presidential election since 1972.
The remarks were released on Monday, when organizers published a recording of the forum. The future of the Republican Party was a subtext of the discussion, including how the party can broaden its appeal to Hispanic voters, a group Mr. Romney lost by a wide margin to Mr. Obama.
A few other nuggets from the conversation included:

        
A low point for the Romney campaign came in September when Mr. Romney's remarks at a May fund-raiser were disclosed, revealing his blunt suggestion that 47 percent of Americans saw themselves as victims who are dependent on the government. With reports of turmoil inside campaign headquarters in Boston, Mr. Rhoades said the candidate took the blame."There was a lot of negativity about our campaign as a whole, but he's a person who takes personal responsibility," Mr. Rhoades said. "He would tell me: 'You didn't say 47 percent, Matt. Stuart didn't say 47 percent. I did.' "

        
At the Obama headquarters in Chicago, advisers ranked Republican candidates. Mr. Romney was always seen as the likely Republican nominee, even as he struggled to defeat Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Rick Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator."Every Friday we rated them," said Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager. "Romney was always at the top."

        
In February, the president eased his longstanding objection to "super PACs" and signaled to wealthy Democratic donors that he would be at deep financial disadvantage. The decision was too late, aides to Mr. Obama said."We waited too long to jump into super PAC world," Mr. Messina said. "When we did it, it looked like a flip-flop."

        
 Heading into Election Day, most advisers to the Romney campaign said they believed they would win. But not Steven J. Law, the president of the conservative group American Crossroads, who declared, "I didn't." He said he believed Mr. Romney would fall short of Mr. Obama, saying he "could never get over the lip" in Virginia, Florida and North Carolina.

        
The selection of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin as the Republican vice presidential candidate surprised the Obama campaign, which assumed that Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, or Senator Rob Portman of Ohio would be chosen. The decision to pick Mr. Ryan was rooted in a comfort level with Mr. Romney, aides said, not politics."The selection of Congressman Ryan was not a political choice," Mr. Stevens said.

        
Neil Newhouse, the chief pollster for Mr. Romney, said the campaign was taken aback by the composition of the electorate. He said that the "real hidden story from our side" came from the number of white men who did not vote in the election in some key states like Ohio."When you lose, you nitpick the numbers as you go through this stuff," Mr. Newhouse said. "The number of white men who didn't vote in this election compared to white women compared to four years ago was extraordinary."
The explanation from Mr. Newhouse was abruptly cut short last week after a power failure in Cambridge knocked out the lights at the Kennedy School of Government. He and other aides made their remarks while sitting in a dark room until the building was evacuated.

        
Romney Visits the White House
        
For Obama and Romney, Lunch at the White House
        
Romney Returns to Iowa for One Last Shot at Victory
        
What Obama Said About Immigration in His Off-the-Record Interview
        
Coming Later Today: Coverage of the Second Presidential Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (96%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); PONZI SCHEMES (52%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Immigration and Emigration; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JIM MESSINA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



102 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Recruiting Young Talent in China to Find the Next Big Idea

BYLINE: RON GLUCKMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Stephen Bell of Trilogy VC tours China's top universities, seeking fledgling entrepreneurs and wagering that lots of small bets placed strategically can produce a few jackpots. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - As he discusses technology, Stephen Bell, with his shaved head, glasses and dark Levi's, channels Apple's co-founder, Steven P. Jobs.
"Name some companies that have changed the world." Mr. Bell tells the crowd at a local university, writing their replies in chalk on a blackboard. Google, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook. "And who created them? That's right, students, just like you."
But one student meekly disagrees, noting that the companies were started by entrepreneurs in America. "They have a different culture," he says. "Not like here in China."
Mr. Bell, a venture capitalist, wants to change that perception. 
Like a high-powered talent scout, Mr. Bell, the co-founder of Trilogy VC, tours China's top universities, seeking fledgling entrepreneurs. Each year, he offers millions of dollars to young students, who often have just a kernel of an idea. It's not just early-stage investments. It's early-early stage.
"I'm not looking for revenue flow, and not interested in user numbers," he said. "I'm looking for doers."
On a chilly day in early November, Mr. Bell was surrounded by five dozen students at Beijing's Tsinghua University, the country's top science and technology university, often referred to as China's M.I.T. It was the last day of ChinaStars, a marathon programming competition he hosts four times a year.
At the outset, students were given 60 seconds to present an idea. Teams were formed, and they had 72 hours to create an actual program or application. "Just focus on doing one thing well," Mr. Bell told them. Over the three days, he and other mentors circulated, suggesting new approaches and offering insights.
This was no idle exercise. Within days, the initial projects were presented, and several teams were awarded $5,000. Some eventually secured additional financing from Trilogy, up to $100,000 over 18 months.
"Nobody else is doing anything like this in China," said Malcolm CasSelle, an American entrepreneur who worked for decades in China. "This is high risk, but you really see the value. Some of these kids have amazing ideas."
Mr. Bell saw a cross section of products from the student teams. Applications included one to allow online beauty shops to provide advice and sell products directly to customers, one for an online shop that delivers food and basic supplies on college campuses, one for a book-sharing site that doubles as a literary matchmaking service and one for a cloud dictionary that lets users add definitions and pictures.
The odds were against all of them, said Mr. Bell, who was not bothered. With a purse of more than $2 million a year, he plans to offer financing to 15 to 30 start-ups. "I only need to hit one home run among a hundred, and I'm doing fine."
Mr. Bell is trying to carve out an investment niche, as more money pours into China. In recent years, investors have flocked to the country, in part because of diminished prospects elsewhere. While investment largely dipped in 2011, many analysts said China rebounded by mid-2012.
"Venture capital investment in China has cooled down, no question," said Jeff Richards, partner at GGV Capital, a Silicon Valley firm that recently started a $625 million fund, largely focused on China. "But if your G.D.P. growth slows from 9 or 10 percent to 7 percent, that's still pretty attractive compared to 1.5 percent, like in America."
Some venture capitalists fret that China is overheated. "There is tons and tons of money chasing deals here," said Dave McClure, a veteran of PayPal, Facebook and LinkedIn, and founding partner of 500 Startups, a venture capital firm that has made six investments in China in the last two years. "There is all this drooling about China. In a lot of ways, it reminds me of the late 1990s in the U.S. China may not be overheated, but it is overhyped."
Mr. Bell is trying a different tack from many of his peers. Rather than risk large sums on established start-ups, Mr. Bell is wagering that lots of small bets placed strategically can produce a few jackpots. "Our mission is to find the next Mark Zuckerberg, the next Larry and Sergey," he said, referring to the founders of Facebook and Google.
"Young people are going to create all the cool stuff," Mr. Bell said. "They are going to start the biggest companies, and they come cheap. I don't need experience - that costs too much money and produces mainstream ideas. I want ideas nobody has thought of."
Mr. Bell has been on both sides of the venture capital equation, as an entrepreneur and an investor.
A native of Long Island in New York, he graduated from Georgia Tech in 1985 with a degree in chemical engineering and afterward joined GE Plastics. In the 1990s, he founded CORE Products, an auto supplier based in Switzerland, and an early business-to-business firm, SupplySolution, which was eventually sold to Tradebeam.
In 2002, he moved to Trilogy, an American software firm started by Joe Liemandt, a Stanford dropout. Mr. Liemandt became known for recruiting young talent through innovative outreach programs like ChinaStars.
While at Trilogy, Mr. Bell traveled to India and China to sell Trilogy software to companies in emerging markets. He left Trilogy in 2006 for another start-up, Shangby, which connected jewelry stores in Shanghai via the Internet with customers around the globe.
Mr. Bell said the experience convinced him of the opportunity in China.
"There is so much energy and innovation here," he said. "This is definitely the place to be, and the time to be here."
Since 2009, Mr. Bell has been based full time in China as the managing general partner of Trilogy VC, which he formed with Mr. Liemandt. So far, Trilogy VC has financed 30 start-ups, largely focusing on games, social networks, dating sites and other programs geared toward young Chinese.
According to the firm, eight of the start-ups are already profitable. Others are growing rapidly, like Droidhen, a game developer with a presence on half of all Android phones; JiaThis, which lets users share across Chinese social networks; and Takaopu, a popular dating service on RenRen.
Takaopu was developed by a student at a ChinaStars competition, Mr. Bell said. "He figured out that the problem with previous China dating sites was face." Chinese dread risking public embarrassment. "His great idea was to make it anonymous, so you only revealed your identity slowly, later on, kind of like a game."
Mr. Bell works closely with his young entrepreneurs. "I don't invest in products, but in people," he said. "I'm always open, always listening."
It was an attractive quality to Jiang Chao, who is working on his doctorate at Beijing University. Mr. Jiang saw a notice on a student bulletin board about an American entrepreneur giving away money in a competition. He decided to give it a try, and his company, Takaopu, received $80,000 from Trilogy VC.
"Money isn't the most important thing that Stephen gives us. Yes, the money helped us get servers and more help, like designers," he said. "But more important is what I learned, that there are people like me, that have the same dream, to create something."
An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect surname for Jiang Chao. He is Mr. Jiang, not Mr. Chao.

        
In London, Nimble Start-Ups Offer Alternatives to Stodgy Banks
        
Brazil Steps Up Investments in Overlooked Tech Start-Ups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LITERATURE (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (60%) China; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; Venture Capital; Technology

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (72%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012



103 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2435 words

HEADLINE: UBS Approaches Deal on Rate Rigging

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: UBS is said to be negotiating settlements over the manipulation of interest rates. | The head of Morgan Stanley's global interest rate desk is under investigation for trading of Treasury futures while at Goldman Sachs. | Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy a stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways. | Greece has presented the terms of its offer to buy back bonds. 

 BODY:
The Swiss bank UBS "is close to reaching settlements with American and British authorities over the manipulation of interest rates," DealBook's Ben Protess and Mark Scott report. "UBS is expected to pay more than $450 million to settle claims that some employees reported false rates to increase the bank's profit, according to officials briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks were private."
The collective penalties being discussed would top the $450 million settlement that authorities struck with Barclays in June, DealBook writes. "The authorities claim that UBS traders colluded with rival banks to influence rates in an effort to bolster their profits, according to officials briefed on the matter." The UBS settlement is expected to heighten calls for overhauling the Libor system.
"American authorities are hoping to complete a deal with UBS by the middle of the month, according to officials briefed on the matter. The officials noted that the discussions could spill into next year. The talks could also break down, in which case the authorities would file a lawsuit against the bank." More than a dozen banks are being investigated by the Justice Department, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Britain's Financial Services Authority. Two American banks, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, have been identified as targets. 
MORGAN STANLEY TRADER UNDER INVESTIGATION | The head of Morgan Stanley's global interest rate desk, Glenn Hadden, is the focus of a regulatory investigation into his trading of Treasury futures while at his previous employer, Goldman Sachs, DealBook's Susanne Craig reports. "Regulators at the CME Group, which runs commodity and futures exchanges, are investigating whether Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures late in the trading day manipulated closing prices in the market and, in turn, made other of his trades more profitable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly."
Mr. Hadden, a highly paid trader known for his aggressive risk taking, has been given formal notice by the CME that an inquiry is under way, Ms. Craig reports. "It is unusual for someone of Mr. Hadden's stature to be the target of a civil complaint like this, and if he is found to have violated exchange rules, he could, in the extreme, face millions in fines and be barred from trading on the CME Group."
Mr. Hadden has previously drawn the ire of regulators. He was put on paid leave from Goldman in 2009 after the firm received complaints from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York - a controversy of which Morgan Stanley was also aware, Ms. Craig reports. "Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on the matter, suspected that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth."
DELTA IN TALKS OVER STAKE IN VIRGIN ATLANTIC | Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways from Singapore Airlines, the latest sign of consolidation in the airline industry, Jad Mouawad and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. "Talks are continuing but a deal will not be announced soon," DealBook reports, citing a person briefed on the matter.
A transaction would "be Delta's most significant strategic move since its 2008 merger with Northwest Airlines, which made it the biggest American carrier until the union of United Airlines and Continental Airlines last year." It would also help strengthen Delta's international operations and give it more access to London's Heathrow Airport. For Virgin, a deal could give it a competitive edge and also allow for an eventual change of control of the airline.
ON THE AGENDA | The three-day UBS Global Media and Communications conference begins in Manhattan, where the chief executive of Viacom, Philippe Dauman, is to speak at 12:30 p.m. The Financial Stability Oversight Council holds a closed-door meeting in Washington. Alan R. Mulally, chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, is on CNBC at 8 a.m. and on Bloomberg TV at 12:30 p.m. Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group is on CNBC at 3:10 p.m. Anthony Scaramucci of SkyBridge Capital is on CNBC at 5 p.m. The Institute for Supply Management releases results of its manufacturing survey for November at 10 a.m.
GREECE ANNOUNCES BUYBACK OFFER | Greece has presented the terms of its offer to buy back bonds from investors. The troubled nation is offering to pay 10 billion euros ($13 billion) for the debt, at an average maximum price of 34.1 cents on the euro, Bloomberg News reports. That price is "higher than previously published or announced," Spyros Politis, head of an Athens-based asset manager, told Bloomberg. "At the moment it looks as if it will be successful, or if they miss the target, they will miss it by a small margin."
The International Monetary Fund has insisted Greece must complete the buyback, which is intended to reduce the government's debt load by as much as 30 to 40 billion euros, before it signs off on the latest package of aid. DealBook reported on Friday: "Hedge funds are holding firm on their stance that they will not sell for any price below 35 cents on the euro - a significant premium to today's average price of around 30 cents." The market for Greek debt had become robust in anticipation of the offer.
Greece plans to conduct the transaction as a modified Dutch auction, with bondholders submitting the prices they are willing to accept. Finance ministers of the euro zone are set to meet in Brussels on Monday to discuss the troubles of Greece and Cyprus. The economist Tyler Cowen writes in The New York Times that the negotiations in Europe are like a game of chicken. "Unfortunately, the economic study of strategic behavior - also known as game theory - suggests that if you play chicken too many times, you will eventually crash the proverbial car."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Cable and Wireless to Sell Units for Up to $1 Billion | Cable and Wireless Communications of Britain agreed on Monday to sell a number of businesses to the phone operator Batelco Group of Bahrain for up to $1 billion. DealBook »
News Corp. Shuffles Top Management | Tom Mockridge, who was chief executive of News Corporation's British newspapers after a phone hacking scandal, is stepping down at the end of the year, he announced on Sunday. The news followed reports that Robert Thomson, the top editor at The Wall Street Journal, would be named chief executive of News Corporation's planned spinoff publishing company. NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
Martin Marietta Said to Be Weighing Friendly Offer for Vulcan | After an earlier unsolicited offer for Vulcan Materials was rejected, Martin Marietta Materials is now "likely to explore a friendly offer" for Vulcan, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the decision. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Airbus Parent Expected to Alter Investor Base | The New York Times reports: "The board of European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent company of Airbus, was expected Monday to announce a significant restructuring of its core shareholder base that would give the German government a direct stake in the group equal to that of France." NEW YORK TIMES
H.P.'s Blunder for the Record Books | Until now, it seemed likely that a deal like AOL's acquisition of Time Warner would never be repeated, rivaled or surpassed, reports James B. Stewart, the Common Sense columnist for The New York Times. DealBook »
Berkshire Moves Into Spain With CaixaBank Reinsurance Deal | Warren E. Buffett and his sizable insurance team are betting that at least one Spanish firm is in good financial shape, even as its home country remains on shakier economic ground. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Bank of America Holds Off on New Fees | The bank "has shelved plans for new fees that could have hit at least 10 million customers by the end of this year, skirting a potential replay of a 2011 uproar over consumer-banking charges," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Goldman Pitches Subprime Mortgages to Clients | Goldman Sachs "said in a Nov. 28 report on its top 10 market themes for 2013 that clients should buy some" derivatives linked to subprime mortgages, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Pressure Mounts on Credit Suisse C.E.O | Brady W. Dougan, the head of Credit Suisse, "has outmaneuvered an internal rival with his recent revamp of the Swiss bank and management shake-up but is still on borrowed time, senior banking sources say," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Buffett's Broad Appeal | Warren E. Buffett's investing style sets him apart from the times, and his calls for higher taxes set him apart from the superrich. "Rather than fret about Buffett's being a traitor to his class, Wall Street and the superrich should see that his message helps keep the pitchforks at bay," The New Yorker's James Surowiecki writes. "If Buffett didn't exist, the rich would have had to invent him." NEW YORKER
HSBC Names New Head of Retail Banking | 
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Struggles to Get a Foothold in Japan | K.K.R.'s experience "underscores the hurdles private-equity firms face in Japan, and how the government and big corporations still wield influence over strategic industries," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
K.K.R. Ends Talks on Lending to IDB Holding of Israel | 
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Some SAC Investors Move Toward the Exit | The French bank Société Générale, which has money in SAC Capital Advisors through an asset management arm, is among investors that have put in requests to withdraw money, as the hedge fund is the focus of an intensifying government investigation, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tax Increases on Investments Would Not Be So Bad, Some Say | The hedge fund manager Douglas Kass, founder of Seabreeze Partners Management, says fears of the negative effects of tax increases on dividends and capital gains may be overblown, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Explaining Argentina's Debt Mess Through Legos | Felix Salmon of Reuters dramatizes the struggle between Argentina and its bondholders, including Elliott Management, with a cast of Lego actors. REUTERS
Hedge Funds Start-Ups Take a Quantitative Approach | The Financial Times reports: "Trend-following quantitative 'black-box' hedge funds are accounting for their highest-ever proportion of hedge fund start-ups, despite weak returns since the financial crisis." FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Spanish Phone Company Plans to Float Part of Latin American Unit | The Spanish mobile company Telefónica may list up to 15 percent of its Latin American operations, a deal that could raise more than $4.6 billion, Reuters reports. REUTERS | FINANCIAL TIMES
Facebook's Unlikely Insider Takes a Different Path | Chris Hughes, who was at Facebook from the beginning, now runs The New Republic. New York magazine writes of the company's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg: "If Zuckerberg used to refer to himself, presumably jokingly, as the 'enemy of the state,' Hughes, whose demeanor is less piratical, has his eye on state dinners." NEW YORK
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Uber Runs Afoul of Regulators | Transportation regulators in Washington recently discussed ways to clarify the legality of apps, including Uber, that allow users to request rides in taxis or cars. The New York Times reports that the regulators "proposed guidelines that would effectively force Uber, a San Francisco start-up, to cease operations in the United States." NEW YORK TIMES
Hosts of Airbnb Travelers May Be Breaking the Law | The New York Times columnist Ron Lieber writes about the start-up Airbnb, which lets people host travelers in their homes: "Local laws may prohibit most or all short-term rentals under many circumstances, though enforcement can be sporadic and you have no way of knowing how tough your local authorities will be." NEW YORK TIMES
Partnership Aims to Support Media Entrepreneurs | The New York Times reports: "Matter Ventures, a start-up accelerator that will provide four months of financial and logistical support for budding media entrepreneurs, will be unveiled Monday by its partners: KQED, a public television and radio station operator; the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation; and the Public Radio Exchange, known as PRX." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Widows Fall Victim to Foreclosure | The New York Times reports: "Just as the housing market is recovering, a growing group of homeowners - widows over the age of 50 whose husbands alone were holders of the mortgage - are losing their homes to foreclosure because of a paperwork flaw that keeps them from obtaining loan modifications." NEW YORK TIMES
F.H.A. Heads Toward a Crisis | If the Federal Housing Administration "were to stop insuring new home loans today, it wouldn't have the money it needs to cover its expected losses in the coming years," Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Silicon Valley Legend on the Lam in Belize | John McAfee, who made his fortune from computer antivirus software, is a "person of interest" in the investigation of a murder in Belize, and "has turned lamming it into a kind of high-tech performance art," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
S.E.C. Chief Said to Have Been Influenced by Concerns Over Legacy | The Wall Street Journal reports: "In one of her last acts as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Schapiro delayed a rule potentially affecting hundreds of billions of dollars of private offerings by companies, in part because of concerns about her personal legacy, according to previously unpublished documents." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Aide to Obama in the Spotlight in Fiscal Talks | Jacob J. Lew, the president's budget director, has much at stake in the current negotiations in Washington over tax increases and spending cuts. If the talks fails, The New York Times reports, "Mr. Lew could wind up with a blot on his nearly impeccable record." NEW YORK TIMES
Hospital in Brooklyn Plans to Declare Bankruptcy | Interfaith Medical Center "is planning to declare bankruptcy this week, hospital officials said on Sunday, raising concerns that New York State may force it to close or merge with another institution," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FUTURES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: UBS AG (97%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); CME GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (97%); UBS (NYSE) (97%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



104 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2446 words

HEADLINE: UBS Approaches Deal on Rate Rigging

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: UBS is said to be negotiating settlements over the manipulation of interest rates. | The head of Morgan Stanley's global interest rate desk is under investigation for trading of Treasury futures while at Goldman Sachs. | Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy a stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways. | Greece has presented the terms of its offer to buy back bonds. 

 BODY:
The Swiss bank UBS "is close to reaching settlements with American and British authorities over the manipulation of interest rates," DealBook's Ben Protess and Mark Scott report. "UBS is expected to pay more than $450 million to settle claims that some employees reported false rates to increase the bank's profit, according to officials briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks were private."
The collective penalties being discussed would top the $450 million settlement that authorities struck with Barclays in June, DealBook writes. "The authorities claim that UBS traders colluded with rival banks to influence rates in an effort to bolster their profits, according to officials briefed on the matter." The UBS settlement is expected to heighten calls for overhauling the Libor system.
"American authorities are hoping to complete a deal with UBS by the middle of the month, according to officials briefed on the matter. The officials noted that the discussions could spill into next year. The talks could also break down, in which case the authorities would file a lawsuit against the bank." More than a dozen banks are being investigated by the Justice Department, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Britain's Financial Services Authority. Two American banks, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, have been identified as targets. 
MORGAN STANLEY TRADER UNDER INVESTIGATION | The head of Morgan Stanley's global interest rate desk, Glenn Hadden, is the focus of a regulatory investigation into his trading of Treasury futures while at his previous employer, Goldman Sachs, DealBook's Susanne Craig reports. "Regulators at the CME Group, which runs commodity and futures exchanges, are investigating whether Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures late in the trading day manipulated closing prices in the market and, in turn, made other of his trades more profitable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly."
Mr. Hadden, a highly paid trader known for his aggressive risk taking, has been given formal notice by the CME that an inquiry is under way, Ms. Craig reports. "It is unusual for someone of Mr. Hadden's stature to be the target of a civil complaint like this, and if he is found to have violated exchange rules, he could, in the extreme, face millions in fines and be barred from trading on the CME Group."
Mr. Hadden has previously drawn the ire of regulators. He was put on paid leave from Goldman in 2009 after the firm received complaints from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York - a controversy of which Morgan Stanley was also aware, Ms. Craig reports. "Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on the matter, suspected that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth."
DELTA IN TALKS OVER STAKE IN VIRGIN ATLANTIC | Delta Air Lines is in talks to buy a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways from Singapore Airlines, the latest sign of consolidation in the airline industry, Jad Mouawad and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. "Talks are continuing but a deal will not be announced soon," DealBook reports, citing a person briefed on the matter.
A transaction would "be Delta's most significant strategic move since its 2008 merger with Northwest Airlines, which made it the biggest American carrier until the union of United Airlines and Continental Airlines last year." It would also help strengthen Delta's international operations and give it more access to London's Heathrow Airport. For Virgin, a deal could give it a competitive edge and also allow for an eventual change of control of the airline.
ON THE AGENDA | The three-day UBS Global Media and Communications conference begins in Manhattan, where the chief executive of Viacom, Philippe Dauman, is to speak at 12:30 p.m. The Financial Stability Oversight Council holds a closed-door meeting in Washington. Alan R. Mulally, chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, is on CNBC at 8 a.m. and on Bloomberg TV at 12:30 p.m. Anthony Scaramucci of SkyBridge Capital is on CNBC at 5 p.m. The Institute for Supply Management releases results of its manufacturing survey for November at 10 a.m.
 [The scheduled CNBC appearance of Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group, noted earlier in On the Agenda, has been cancelled.]
GREECE ANNOUNCES BUYBACK OFFER | Greece has presented the terms of its offer to buy back bonds from investors. The troubled nation is offering to pay 10 billion euros ($13 billion) for the debt, at an average maximum price of 34.1 cents on the euro, Bloomberg News reports. That price is "higher than previously published or announced," Spyros Politis, head of an Athens-based asset manager, told Bloomberg. "At the moment it looks as if it will be successful, or if they miss the target, they will miss it by a small margin."
The International Monetary Fund has insisted Greece must complete the buyback, which is intended to reduce the government's debt load by as much as 30 to 40 billion euros, before it signs off on the latest package of aid. DealBook reported on Friday: "Hedge funds are holding firm on their stance that they will not sell for any price below 35 cents on the euro - a significant premium to today's average price of around 30 cents." The market for Greek debt had become robust in anticipation of the offer.
Greece plans to conduct the transaction as a modified Dutch auction, with bondholders submitting the prices they are willing to accept. Finance ministers of the euro zone are set to meet in Brussels on Monday to discuss the troubles of Greece and Cyprus. The economist Tyler Cowen writes in The New York Times that the negotiations in Europe are like a game of chicken. "Unfortunately, the economic study of strategic behavior - also known as game theory - suggests that if you play chicken too many times, you will eventually crash the proverbial car."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Cable and Wireless to Sell Units for Up to $1 Billion | Cable and Wireless Communications of Britain agreed on Monday to sell a number of businesses to the phone operator Batelco Group of Bahrain for up to $1 billion. DealBook »
News Corp. Shuffles Top Management | Tom Mockridge, who was chief executive of News Corporation's British newspapers after a phone hacking scandal, is stepping down at the end of the year, he announced on Sunday. The news followed reports that Robert Thomson, the top editor at The Wall Street Journal, would be named chief executive of News Corporation's planned spinoff publishing company. NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
Martin Marietta Said to Be Weighing Friendly Offer for Vulcan | After an earlier unsolicited offer for Vulcan Materials was rejected, Martin Marietta Materials is now "likely to explore a friendly offer" for Vulcan, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the decision. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Airbus Parent Expected to Alter Investor Base | The New York Times reports: "The board of European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent company of Airbus, was expected Monday to announce a significant restructuring of its core shareholder base that would give the German government a direct stake in the group equal to that of France." NEW YORK TIMES
H.P.'s Blunder for the Record Books | Until now, it seemed likely that a deal like AOL's acquisition of Time Warner would never be repeated, rivaled or surpassed, reports James B. Stewart, the Common Sense columnist for The New York Times. DealBook »
Berkshire Moves Into Spain With CaixaBank Reinsurance Deal | Warren E. Buffett and his sizable insurance team are betting that at least one Spanish firm is in good financial shape, even as its home country remains on shakier economic ground. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Bank of America Holds Off on New Fees | The bank "has shelved plans for new fees that could have hit at least 10 million customers by the end of this year, skirting a potential replay of a 2011 uproar over consumer-banking charges," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Goldman Pitches Subprime Mortgages to Clients | Goldman Sachs "said in a Nov. 28 report on its top 10 market themes for 2013 that clients should buy some" derivatives linked to subprime mortgages, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Pressure Mounts on Credit Suisse C.E.O | Brady W. Dougan, the head of Credit Suisse, "has outmaneuvered an internal rival with his recent revamp of the Swiss bank and management shake-up but is still on borrowed time, senior banking sources say," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Buffett's Broad Appeal | Warren E. Buffett's investing style sets him apart from the times, and his calls for higher taxes set him apart from the superrich. "Rather than fret about Buffett's being a traitor to his class, Wall Street and the superrich should see that his message helps keep the pitchforks at bay," The New Yorker's James Surowiecki writes. "If Buffett didn't exist, the rich would have had to invent him." NEW YORKER
HSBC Names New Head of Retail Banking | 
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Struggles to Get a Foothold in Japan | K.K.R.'s experience "underscores the hurdles private-equity firms face in Japan, and how the government and big corporations still wield influence over strategic industries," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
K.K.R. Ends Talks on Lending to IDB Holding of Israel | 
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Some SAC Investors Move Toward the Exit | The French bank Société Générale, which has money in SAC Capital Advisors through an asset management arm, is among investors that have put in requests to withdraw money, as the hedge fund is the focus of an intensifying government investigation, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tax Increases on Investments Would Not Be So Bad, Some Say | The hedge fund manager Douglas Kass, founder of Seabreeze Partners Management, says fears of the negative effects of tax increases on dividends and capital gains may be overblown, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Explaining Argentina's Debt Mess Through Legos | Felix Salmon of Reuters dramatizes the struggle between Argentina and its bondholders, including Elliott Management, with a cast of Lego actors. REUTERS
Hedge Funds Start-Ups Take a Quantitative Approach | The Financial Times reports: "Trend-following quantitative 'black-box' hedge funds are accounting for their highest-ever proportion of hedge fund start-ups, despite weak returns since the financial crisis." FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Spanish Phone Company Plans to Float Part of Latin American Unit | The Spanish mobile company Telefónica may list up to 15 percent of its Latin American operations, a deal that could raise more than $4.6 billion, Reuters reports. REUTERS | FINANCIAL TIMES
Facebook's Unlikely Insider Takes a Different Path | Chris Hughes, who was at Facebook from the beginning, now runs The New Republic. New York magazine writes of the company's chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg: "If Zuckerberg used to refer to himself, presumably jokingly, as the 'enemy of the state,' Hughes, whose demeanor is less piratical, has his eye on state dinners." NEW YORK
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Uber Runs Afoul of Regulators | Transportation regulators in Washington recently discussed ways to clarify the legality of apps, including Uber, that allow users to request rides in taxis or cars. The New York Times reports that the regulators "proposed guidelines that would effectively force Uber, a San Francisco start-up, to cease operations in the United States." NEW YORK TIMES
Hosts of Airbnb Travelers May Be Breaking the Law | The New York Times columnist Ron Lieber writes about the start-up Airbnb, which lets people host travelers in their homes: "Local laws may prohibit most or all short-term rentals under many circumstances, though enforcement can be sporadic and you have no way of knowing how tough your local authorities will be." NEW YORK TIMES
Partnership Aims to Support Media Entrepreneurs | The New York Times reports: "Matter Ventures, a start-up accelerator that will provide four months of financial and logistical support for budding media entrepreneurs, will be unveiled Monday by its partners: KQED, a public television and radio station operator; the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation; and the Public Radio Exchange, known as PRX." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Widows Fall Victim to Foreclosure | The New York Times reports: "Just as the housing market is recovering, a growing group of homeowners - widows over the age of 50 whose husbands alone were holders of the mortgage - are losing their homes to foreclosure because of a paperwork flaw that keeps them from obtaining loan modifications." NEW YORK TIMES
F.H.A. Heads Toward a Crisis | If the Federal Housing Administration "were to stop insuring new home loans today, it wouldn't have the money it needs to cover its expected losses in the coming years," Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Silicon Valley Legend on the Lam in Belize | John McAfee, who made his fortune from computer antivirus software, is a "person of interest" in the investigation of a murder in Belize, and "has turned lamming it into a kind of high-tech performance art," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
S.E.C. Chief Said to Have Been Influenced by Concerns Over Legacy | The Wall Street Journal reports: "In one of her last acts as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary Schapiro delayed a rule potentially affecting hundreds of billions of dollars of private offerings by companies, in part because of concerns about her personal legacy, according to previously unpublished documents." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Aide to Obama in the Spotlight in Fiscal Talks | Jacob J. Lew, the president's budget director, has much at stake in the current negotiations in Washington over tax increases and spending cuts. If the talks fails, The New York Times reports, "Mr. Lew could wind up with a blot on his nearly impeccable record." NEW YORK TIMES
Hospital in Brooklyn Plans to Declare Bankruptcy | Interfaith Medical Center "is planning to declare bankruptcy this week, hospital officials said on Sunday, raising concerns that New York State may force it to close or merge with another institution," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FUTURES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: UBS AG (97%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); CME GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (97%); UBS (NYSE) (97%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CME (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012



105 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Stalled Federal Budget Talks Cast a Long Shadow for Executives

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TOP advertising and media executives are expressing concern but not alarm -- at least, not yet -- about the potential effects that a fiscal crisis in the United States could have on their industries in 2013.
The executives spoke on Monday at the start of the 40th annual global media and communications conference, sponsored by UBS, in Midtown Manhattan. They addressed the possibility of a fiscal crisis in January as part of discussions about issues that could significantly curb growth in ad spending, among them the continued economic difficulties in the euro zone.
Widespread gloom about an inability to avert the fiscal crisis is one of four ''gray swans'' that are roiling markets, and marketers, said Martin Sorrell, chairman of WPP, the largest advertising holding group by revenue. The phrase is a play on the expression black swans, meaning highly improbable like the global financial crisis of 2008. 
''I would err on the side of caution at the moment,'' said Mr. Sorrell, whose hundreds of agencies include Grey, JWT, MEC, Mindshare, Ogilvy & Mather and Y&R.
''Whichever way it comes out, it creates tremendous uncertainty,'' he added. ''It's much tougher sledding.''
For instance, Mr. Sorrell said, ''clients used to look at calendar years'' in their planning processes, but ''now they look at quarters.''
''We had lunch with the C.E.O. of one of our major packaged-goods clients in New York last week,'' he said, and the executive talked about ''how hard it is to predict the behavior of consumers month to month.''
''This is packaged goods, not capital goods,'' he added for emphasis, almost shaking his head in wonderment.
As a result, Mr. Sorrell said, as WPP agencies go through their fourth-quarter planning for the new year, they are ''being told to be cautious'' and to budget smaller gains in revenue for 2013 than might otherwise be expected.
Another gray swan influencing Mr. Sorrell's outlook for next year is, of course, the tumult in the euro zone. He seemed more sanguine about that problem, saying, ''By and large, we'll muddle through.''
Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, has ''done a brilliant job,'' Mr. Sorrell said, quoting approvingly a remark Mr. Draghi made on Friday that European governments had been ''living in a fairy world.''
Mr. Sorrell expressed optimism for the year after next, pointing to a ''strong ray of hope'' that could shine on the ad industry in 2014 as a result of spending related to the Winter Olympics, the World Cup and, he added, laughing, ''would you believe, we have another U.S. Congressional election.''
Another speaker, Michael I. Roth, chairman and chief executive of the Interpublic Group of Companies, repeatedly used the word uncertainty in his remarks, but also said he saw opportunity amid the question marks.
''When clients are faced with this economic uncertainty,'' said Mr. Roth, whose agencies include Deutsch, Draftfcb, Initiative, Lowe & Partners and McCann Erickson, it is a chance for Interpublic to demonstrate that ''we have the resources to move the needle'' in selling goods and services for them.
Also, the current environment is not like the fourth quarter of 2008, Mr. Roth said, when the financial crisis led marketers to sharply and quickly cut their ad budgets.
''In this environment, our clients have plenty of cash,'' he added. ''The tone right now is O.K. and hopefully, we'll see a good, vibrant December.''
''We don't see a wholesale cutback in 2013,'' Mr. Roth said, ''at least so far,'' adding that growth in American ad spending in the low single digits compared with this year ''is a fair assumption to make.''
The Magna Global unit of Interpublic forecast on Monday that ad spending in the United States next year would increase 0.6 percent from 2012. That prediction assumes ''we don't fall off the fiscal cliff,'' said Vincent Letang, executive vice president and director for global forecasting at Magna Global.
Also on Monday, the GroupM unit of WPP predicted a gain of 2.7 percent for American ad spending in 2013 and the ZenithOptimedia division of the Publicis Groupe forecast an increase of 3.5 percent. By comparison, their predictions for worldwide ad spending in 2013 compared with 2012 were somewhat stronger: Magna Global, up 3.1 percent; GroupM, up 4.5 percent; and ZenithOptimedia, up 4.1 percent.
Steve King, worldwide chief executive of ZenithOptimedia, said that in addition to the potential for a fiscal crisis, he was worried about ''continued unrest in the Middle East and its impact on oil prices.''
Mr. Roth said that a possible fiscal crisis loomed larger as a ''challenge'' for Interpublic because Interpublic derived more of its revenue from the United States than did competitors like WPP, the Omnicom Group or Publicis.
To help insulate Interpublic, he said, ''we will continue to invest in emerging markets'' and ''make sure we have powerful offerings'' in fields like advertising, media services and digital marketing.
In a research note last week, Brian Wieser, an analyst at the Pivotal Research Group, estimated that an inability to resolve the fiscal crisis could result in American ad spending declining next year by 4 percent, or $9 billion, rather than growing by 1 percent as he has forecast.
''While economists' consensus and our model speaks of optimism that this won't happen,'' Mr. Wieser wrote, ''our brain increasingly thinks it just might.''
The UBS conference continues through Wednesday afternoon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a conference in Manhattan, Michael I. Roth of the Interpublic Group said he saw opportunities in advertising despite global economic uncertainty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Martin Sorrell of WPP counseled caution in the marketing industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEIL HALL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PACKAGED GOODS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (64%); HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); OLYMPICS (50%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); JWT (55%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



106 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Helps to Lift Auto Sales to 4-Year High

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Automakers said on Monday that new-vehicle sales in the United States rose 15 percent in November, as the replacement of cars and trucks damaged in Hurricane Sandy contributed to the industry's best monthly sales rate in four years.
The strong performance of most car companies indicated that total sales for this year would exceed most forecasts and suggested that the industry's revival would continue into 2013. 
Preliminary figures showed that 1.14 million vehicles were sold in November, in contrast to 994,000 in the same month a year ago, according to the research firm Autodata.
That pace translates into a seasonally adjusted annual sales rate of about 15.5 million vehicles -- the highest rate recorded since January 2008.
''November was a very good month, but December has the potential to be even better,'' said Jesse Toprak, chief analyst for the auto information Web site TrueCar.com.
Analysts said from 20,000 to 30,000 sales during the month were tied to consumers replacing vehicles that were flooded or destroyed in the hurricane that decimated portions of the East Coast in late October.
Estimates of damaged vehicles have run as high as 200,000, but Mr. Toprak said only about one-fourth of those cars would be replaced with new ones.
''The replacement value will in most cases only be enough to replace a used car with another used car,'' he said.
The main reasons for the healthy sales in November were the same ones that had driven the overall industry this year -- the need to replace aging cars on the road and the steady supply of fresh, new models with superior fuel economy.
General Motors, the nation's largest automaker, had one of the weaker performances among the major car companies. G.M. said its November sales increased just 3.4 percent, mostly because of a drop in truck sales.
G.M. plans to replace its current pickup trucks next year with new versions, but is losing ground to competitors in the segment in the interim.
The company also did not benefit much from hurricane-related sales because its market share is lower than Japanese rivals in some of the affected areas.
Ford Motor Company reported that its sales during the month were up 6.4 percent, primarily because of the popularity of its small Focus sedan and C-Max hybrid models.
Ford, in fact, trailed G.M. by fewer than 10,000 sales during November, with General Motors selling 186,000 vehicles in contrast to Ford's 177,000.
Chrysler, the smallest of Detroit's three carmakers, continued its stellar results this year with a 14.4 percent increase in the month. Over all, Chrysler sold 122,000 vehicles, including 3,600 cars made by its Italian parent company, Fiat.
The two largest Japanese automakers, Toyota and Honda, posted sizable increases that were partly attributed to the replacement of storm-battered vehicles.
Toyota said its November sales jumped 17.2 percent, to 161,000 vehicles, and Honda reported a 38.9 percent increase, to 116,000. Honda's large market share in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut was cited by analysts as a key factor in its overall results.
''Honda is the most popular brand in the tristate area,'' said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with the car research site Edmunds.com. ''So when life returned to normal, those car buyers quickly made up for lost time.''
Nissan, the third major Japanese car company, said its sales increased 12.9 percent during the month, to 96,000 vehicles.
The German automakers Volkswagen and BMW did well in November, partly on the strength of revamped versions of top sellers such as the VW Passat and the BMW 3-series.
Industry executives said positive economic conditions should propel sales even higher next year. In particular, an increase in housing starts has encouraged some businesses to begin buying new pickup trucks and utility vehicles.
The executives, however, said there was some concern about the outcome of discussions in Washington to avert the package of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to go into effect at the end of the year.
''Until we can see some resolution, we are going to be conservative and not issue a sales forecast for 2013,'' said Kurt McNeil, G.M.'s head of United States sales operations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chrysler, the maker of Jeep, continued its stellar year, with November sales up 14.4 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES)
Honda Accord
Chevrolet Silverado CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
 How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); HURRICANES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MARKET SHARE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SEDANS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); TRUECAR INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



107 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: First Installment on Deficit Reduction a Sticking Point

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For all the growing angst over the state of negotiations to head off a fiscal crisis in January, the parties are farthest apart on a relatively small part of the overall deficit reduction program -- the down payment.
President Obama and the House speaker, John A. Boehner, are in general agreement that the relevant Congressional committees must sit down next year and work out changes to the tax code and entitlement programs to save well more than $1 trillion over the next decade. 
But before that work begins, both men want Congress to approve a first installment on deficit reduction in the coming weeks. The installment would replace the automatic spending cuts and tax increases that make up the ''fiscal cliff,'' while signaling Washington's seriousness about getting its fiscal house in order. That is where the chasm lies in size and scope.
Mr. Obama says the down payment should be large and made up almost completely of tax increases on top incomes, partly because he and Congressional leaders last year agreed on some spending cuts over the next decade but have yet to agree on any tax increases.
Republicans have countered by arguing for a smaller down payment that must include immediate savings from Medicare and other social programs. Republicans, using almost mirror-image language, have said that they do not want to agree to specific tax increases and vague promises of future spending cuts.
Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, chairman of the Budget Committee and part of a bipartisan ''Gang of Six'' senators who devised the two-stage process, said: ''I think there's a lot of confusion between the initial down payment and the framework. That's for sure.''
The two biggest areas of dispute are tax increases and the big government health insurance programs, Medicare and Medicaid. On the health programs, neither side believes Congress could meaningfully overhaul them in the four weeks that remain before the fiscal deadline.
''Entitlement reform is a big step, and it affects tens of millions of people,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, another architect of the two-stage framework. ''It's not just a matter of cutting spending in an appropriation. It's changing policy. And that's why I was reluctant to include it in the down-payment conversation. I want this to be a thoughtful effort on both sides that doesn't jeopardize this program.''
But Republicans say that it is possible to make some initial changes to the programs in coming weeks. ''There are simpler things that can be done,'' said Senator Michael D. Crapo, Republican of Idaho and another Gang of Six member. ''The real structural changes would come later.''
Mr. Crapo said Congress could agree on some additional cuts to health care providers and change the way inflation is calculated to slow not only automatic increases in Medicare and Social Security benefits, but also the annual rise in tax brackets.
Democrats instead argue that the down payment should consist of a combination of tax increases and cuts to programs outside Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, like farm programs. Mr. Obama has pushed for a return to the top tax rates under President Bill Clinton.
Republican leaders have said that they are willing to raise new tax revenues -- albeit not as much as Democrats want -- but Republicans want taxes to rise by closing loopholes and curbing tax deductions and credits.
If the two sides are able to come to an agreement on the down payment, it would also likely fix targets for larger savings in the tax code and entitlement programs. The White House and Congress would then spend much of the next year trying to hash out the specific policy changes needed to hit those targets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kent Conrad in Washington last month. He sees ''confusion between the initial down payment and the framework.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); MIKE CRAPO (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); KENT CONRAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



108 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Declines to Weakest Level Since July 2009

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- American manufacturing declined in November to its weakest level since July 2009, one month after the recession ended. Worries about automatic tax increases next year cut demand for factory orders and manufacturing jobs. 
The Institute for Supply Management, a trade group of purchasing managers, said on Monday that its index of manufacturing conditions fell to a reading of 49.5. That is down from 51.7 in October.
Readings above 50 in the institute's survey signal growth, while readings below indicate contraction. Manufacturing grew in October for only the second time since May.
A gauge of new orders dropped to its lowest level since August, a sign that production could slow in the coming months. Manufacturers also sharply reduced their stockpiles, indicating companies expect weaker demand.
''Today's report suggests that the manufacturing sector is likely to remain a weak point in the recovery for a few months yet,'' Jeremy Lawson, an economist at BNP Paribas, said in a note to clients.
The weak manufacturing survey overshadowed other positive economic reports. An uptick in home building increased construction spending in October by the most in five months. Manufacturing activity in China grew in November for the second consecutive month. And American auto sales rebounded last month after Hurricane Sandy held sales back in October.
American manufacturers are concerned about what happens when trillions of dollars in tax increases and automatic spending cuts take effect in January if Congress and the Obama administration fail to strike a budget deal before then.
Those worries have led many companies to pull back this year on purchases of machinery and equipment, which signal investment plans. The decline could slow economic growth and hold back hiring in the October to December quarter.
A measure of hiring in the I.S.M. survey fell to 48.4, the lowest reading since September 2009.
Companies ''are just backing off and not making any moves until things clear up a bit,'' said Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the I.S.M.'s survey committee.
The American economy expanded from July through September at an annual rate of 2.7 percent, largely because of strong growth in inventories.
Separately, the Commerce Department said Monday that construction spending rose 1.4 percent in October, for its largest gain since a 1.7 percent increase in May.
The increase raised spending to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $872.1 billion. That is nearly 17 percent higher than a 12-year low hit in February 2011. Still, even with the gain, the level of spending on construction remains only about half of what's considered healthy.
Housing construction spending jumped 3 percent in October. Nonresidential building rose 0.3 percent. The government said Hurricane Sandy, which hit New Jersey, New York and Connecticut in late October, had only a minimal effect on the figures.
Sales of new homes fell slightly in October, dragged lower by steep declines in the Northeast partly related to Hurricane Sandy. New-home sales were still 17 percent higher in October than a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Construction Spending: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (87%); STATISTICS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); HURRICANE SANDY (65%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (57%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BNP PARIBAS SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



109 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: South African Company to Build U.S. Plant to Convert Gas to Liquid Fuels

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
WESTLAKE, La. -- In an ambitious bet that the glut of cheap natural gas in the United States will last for many years, a South African energy company announced on Monday that it would build America's first commercial plant to convert natural gas to diesel and other liquid fuels.
The company, Sasol, which is based in Johannesburg, has been a pioneer in a technology that has tantalized energy scientists for decades over its potential to produce liquid fuels without using oil, which has historically cost far more than natural gas. 
Having already built smaller plants in South Africa and Qatar, Sasol has designed its new Louisiana plant to produce 96,000 barrels of fuel a day using its ''gas to liquids,'' or G.T.L., technology. It will be the second-largest plant of its kind in the world, after Royal Dutch Shell's Pearl plant in Qatar, and will cost $11 billion to $14 billion to build.
''By incorporating G.T.L. technology in the U.S.A.'s energy mix, states such as Louisiana will be able to advance the country's energy independence through a diversification of supply,'' said David Constable, Sasol's chief executive, at a news conference here Monday near the project's planned location.
The facility will include a gas processing plant, a chemical plant and a refinery. All are required to perform the alchemy of converting natural gas into diesel, jet fuel and other chemical products.
What makes this southwestern corner of Louisiana attractive to Sasol is its proximity to bountiful shale gas fields just north of here and west in Texas. A boom in shale drilling has reduced the price of natural gas in the United States in the last four years by more than two-thirds, encouraging many energy and chemical companies to build and expand manufacturing plants around the Gulf of Mexico to produce a variety of petrochemicals.
Sasol estimated that the plant would create at least 1,200 permanent jobs and 7,000 construction jobs. Production is scheduled to begin in 2018.
The state encouraged the project with more than $2 billion worth of tax credits and other incentives.
The company said it would put off previously announced plans to build a separate gas-to-liquids plant in Canada, giving priority to the Louisiana effort.
The track record for the technology, conceived by German scientists in the 1920s, is not encouraging, mainly because of a history of construction cost overruns.
Shell's Pearl plant in Qatar, built with Qatar Petroleum for $19 billion, was over budget by a factor of three and has had stubborn maintenance concerns. Many other oil companies have looked at the process and declined to make the huge investments necessary.
Only a handful of gas-to-liquid plants operate commercially in Malaysia, South Africa and Qatar, and they collectively produce a bit more than 200,000 barrels of fuels and lubricants a day -- the equivalent of less than 1 percent of global diesel demand.
Nevertheless, Shell is considering building its own G.T.L. plant on the Gulf Coast. Sasol and the Malaysian oil company Petronas are building a plant in Uzbekistan, and Sasol is joining Chevron to build one in Nigeria. Rosneft is planning a pilot project in Russia.
Profits have been elusive for the technology. To make it work financially, natural gas prices must remain low and prices for oil, diesel and jet fuel must remain high for a prolonged period.
Natural gas and diesel prices have historically been very unpredictable, and if enough companies build gas-to-liquids plants or find other uses for natural gas, demand will rise, putting upward pressure on prices.
In the United States, various companies have plans to build natural gas export terminals and promote more use of compressed natural gas for vehicles, as is done in many countries like Pakistan, Iran and Argentina.
''If you didn't have cost overruns, and if you didn't have maintenance unscheduled downtime -- if everything worked perfectly -- then G.T.L. plants look pretty good on paper,'' said Don Hertzmark, an international energy consultant who has worked on gas-to-liquids and other natural gas projects for 30 years. ''These plants are only economic with very low gas prices.''
Mr. Hertzmark said that, with modest construction cost overruns, companies could make a decent profit on a gas-to-liquids plant. He said that at today's price for natural gas in the United States, about $3.60 per thousand cubic feet, a company would need a retail price for diesel fuel of more than $4 a gallon -- near the average price today -- to make the process profitable.
At the news conference on Monday, Gov. Bobby Jindal said the Sasol project, which also includes a separate $5 billion ethane cracker to produce plastics and solvents, would be the largest manufacturing project in the history of Louisiana and one of the largest ever in the United States. ''The global financial markets will be watching,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Constable, left, of Sasol and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana spoke of the plant Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); GAS TO LIQUIDS TECHNOLOGY (90%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); JET FUEL (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SASOL LTD (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); QATAR PETROLEUM (51%)

TICKER: SSL (NYSE) (92%); SOL (JSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324199 ALL OTHER PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); QATAR (92%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



110 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: American Commander Details Al Qaeda's Strength in Mali

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Al Qaeda's affiliate in North Africa is operating terrorist training camps in northern Mali and providing arms, explosives and financing to a militant Islamist organization in northern Nigeria, the top American military commander in Africa said on Monday.
The affiliate, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, has used the momentum gained since seizing control of the northern part of the impoverished country in March to increase recruiting across sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and Europe, said the commander, Gen. Carter F. Ham. 
General Ham's assessment is the most detailed and sobering American military analysis so far of the consequences of the Qaeda affiliate and associated extremist groups seizing the northern part of Mali to use as a haven.
''As each day goes by, Al Qaeda and other organizations are strengthening their hold in northern Mali,'' General Ham said in remarks at the Homeland Security Policy Institute at George Washington University. ''There is a compelling need for the international community, led by Africans, to address that.''
In addition to the risks inside Mali, General Ham also said that members of Boko Haram, an extremist group in northern Nigeria, had traveled to training camps in northern Mali and have most likely received financing and explosives from the Qaeda franchise. ''We have seen clear indications of collaboration among the organizations,'' he said.
Radical Islamists have turned northern Mali into an enclave for Qaeda militants and for the imposition of harsh Shariah law, which has been used to terrorize the population, particularly women, with amputations, stonings, whippings and other abuses.
The Qaeda North Africa affiliate is now considered one of the best armed and wealthiest of the Qaeda franchises across the world, largely because of millions of dollars gained in kidnapping ransoms, drug proceeds and illicit trafficking in fuel and tobacco, General Ham said.
Last week, Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, recommended that the Security Council endorse a plan by the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States to deploy a security force at the request of the Mali government to reclaim the north from the extremists. But the action did not offer financial support from the United Nations.
''Northern Mali is at risk of becoming a permanent haven for terrorists and organized criminal networks where people are subjected to a very strict interpretation of Shariah law and human rights are abused on a systematic basis,'' Mr. Ban said in his report.
While a detailed military plan has yet to be drafted, the idea has been for about 3,300 troops from Nigeria and other African countries to help Mali's military mount a campaign against the militants. France, the United States and other countries would help with training, intelligence and logistics.
General Ham acknowledged that Qaeda fighters would probably solidify their gains in northern Mali -- an area the size of France -- in the months that it would take to train and equip an African force to help Mali's fractured military oust the militants from the north.
General Ham said that pursuing a diplomatic solution should be the first avenue for resolving the conflict. Malian diplomats have recently met with some ethnic Tuareg rebels in neighboring Burkina Faso in an attempt to resolve some long-standing complaints by the Tuareg people and isolate the Arab foreign fighters from the Qaeda franchise.
General Ham, a former Iraq war commander who oversaw the initial American-led air campaign against Libya last year, identified hurdles that an African force would face in evicting the extremists. Most of the African militaries likely to participate in such an operation have largely been trained and equipped for peacekeeping missions, not offensive operations, he said.
The region's desert terrain, vast distances and the likelihood of an extended conflict also pose significant challenges to an African force, as well as to any Western militaries playing supporting roles, he said.
Mr. Ban identified even more basic issues to address before an African-led force would be ready to deploy. ''Fundamental questions on how the force would be led, sustained, trained, equipped and financed remain unanswered,'' he said in his 39-page report to the Security Council last Wednesday.
Islamists seized control of the long-unstable north after a coup d'état in the Malian capital of Bamako last March. The Malian Army collapsed after the coup, fleeing the main cities of the north in the wake of the rebel advance, and power in Bamako has since been uneasily shared by weak civilian leaders and the military, which has been accused of serious human rights abuses.
The fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya prompted Tuareg fighters from northern Mali, who had been fighting alongside Colonel Qaddafi's forces, to return home with weapons from Libyan arsenals. They joined with Qaeda-affiliated Islamist militants who had moved to the lightly policed region from Algeria, and the two groups easily drove out the weakened Malian army in late March and early April. The Islamists then turned on the Tuaregs, routing them and consolidating control in the region in May and June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); RELIGION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); AFRICA (97%); MALI (96%); NIGERIA (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



111 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; FROM THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: 100, 75, 50 Years Ago

 BODY:
1912 Woman's Death Unexplained
LONDON -- A verdict of ''found drowned,'' there being no evidence to show how she got into the sea, was returned yesterday [Dec. 3] at the inquest on Mrs. Marian Nowill, aged thirty-five, whose disappearance from the Atlantic Hotel, Newquay, Cornwall, was a nine days' wonder throughout England. The husband, Mr. Sidney Nowill, a Sheffield merchant, said he could only confirm what he had said at the previous inquest on Mr. James Delay, the retired Singapore solicitor, who committed suicide at the Atlantic Hotel the day after Mrs. Nowill's disappearance. Speaking with emotion, Mr. Nowill added: ''After a man has been married to a woman for twelve years, as I have, he cannot help knowing something about her character. 
I now want to say that there was no straighter woman living, and that I have absolute faith in the chastity of my wife.'' Miss Lavina Dark, assistant manageress at the Atlantic Hotel, retold the circumstances of Mrs. Nowill's last minutes at the hotel on the fateful Saturday. Mr. Delay and Mrs. Nowill came in to tea, she said, and about twenty minutes later Mrs. Nowill left the hotel. She seemed excited and anxious to get away, but did not look like a woman rushing away in fear. Dr. Godsden, who conducted the post-mortem examination, stated that Mrs. Nowill had gone into the water living. The condition of the lungs proved that she had not been struggling.
1937 Violence at Japanese Parade
SHANGHAI -- Following a series of violent incidents during the Japanese ''victory parade'' in the International Settlement today [Dec. 3], a square mile of this area, hitherto held inviolable, was occupied by Japanese forces, who set up virtual martial law during several hours. Late tonight, after vigorous representations by the European and American members of the Municipal Council, the Japanese consented to withdraw. Meanwhile, on strong objections by the French authorities against the holding of another ''victory parade'' in the French Concession tomorrow, the Japanese announced that the planned demonstration had been canceled. The Japanese also yielded to Colonel C.F.B. Price, commander of the force of United States Marines, when he demanded the evacuation of the American defense sector near the racecourse, where Japanese troops were erecting barbed-wire barricades. Although the Japanese have now completely withdrawn to their own sector of the Settlement, the situation is still tense, and fears of serious developments continue. The Japanese Army spokesman tonight stated significantly that a thorough investigation of today's incidents was necessary because the International Settlement and the French Concession continue to harbor Chinese agitators who might precipitate further incidents. He added that if the authorities do not take action, Japanese troops might be compelled to patrol both the Settlement and the Concession.
1962 British Party Chief Chides U.S.
PARIS -- British opposition leader Hugh Gaitskell today [Dec. 3] sharply criticized United States ''enthusiasm'' for British entry into the European Common Market. He chided ''many Americans'' for urging Britain to surrender its sovereignty to a European union and, at the same time, being reluctant to see the United States lose any of its sovereignty. This highlighted a damaging new attack which the British Labor party chief mounted against the terms which Prime Minister Harold Macmillan has obtained so far in his attempt to lead Britain into the European Economic Community. Mr. Gaitskell castigated practically the entire range of the trouble-plagued 13-month-old negotiations at Brussels. He charged Britain's Conservative government with making concession after concession to the Six without receiving anything in exchange except ''vague assurances.'' He asserted that ''there is no overriding necessity for Britain's entry into the Common Market.'' The British, he said, would have little to lose by not joining. ''The fears about the practical effects of non-entry have little substance,'' he said. Mr. Gaitskell, who addressed the Anglo-American Press Association in Paris, said that he was aiming his remarks particularly at the United States press, evidently in an attempt to bring his harsh criticism of the Common Market before the American public.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); AUTOPSIES (78%); MISSING PERSONS (77%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (76%); ARMIES (71%); SUICIDE (70%); PARADES & MARCHES (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



112 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Britain Says It Will Go After Tax Dodgers

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
The British government announced plans on Monday to crack down on tax dodgers as a parliamentary report criticized United States companies for what it described as tax avoidance.
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, said he had earmarked an additional £77 million, or $123 million, for a campaign against ''offshore evasion and avoidance by wealthy individuals and multinationals.'' The push, the Treasury said in a statement, was expected to yield £2 billion in additional annual revenue.
Criticism is growing in Britain and elsewhere in Europe of the fiscal policies of several American companies that pay little tax on the billions of pounds and euros in sales that they generate in the region. 
''Global companies with huge operations in the U.K., generating significant amounts of income, are getting away with paying little or no corporation tax here,'' Margaret Hodge, chairwoman of the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament, said in a report published Monday. ''This is outrageous and an insult to British businesses and individuals who pay their fair share.''
The report focused on the tax practices of Starbucks, Amazon and Google, criticizing their policy of using lower-tax jurisdictions within Europe, like Ireland, Luxembourg and Switzerland, to record much of the revenue they generate in higher-tax countries like Britain, France and Germany. Companies like Google then transfer money they earn in Europe to Bermuda or other places, thus deferring or avoiding United States taxes as well.
At parliamentary hearings last month, executives of Google, Amazon and Starbucks maintained that their tax policies were perfectly legal because European Union law lets companies based in one member state operate across the 27-country bloc.
But tax investigators in several countries, including France, are looking into whether the practice, which is also employed by European companies, is legal. Amazon recently disclosed that it had received a bill from the French fiscal authorities for $252 million in back taxes, adding that it was contesting the claim.
Starbucks said on Monday that it was reviewing its British tax practices after the company disclosed recently that it had paid no corporate tax in Britain last year despite generating £398 million in sales.
''To maintain and further build public trust we need to do more,'' Starbucks said in a statement. ''The company has been in discussions with H.M.R.C. for some time'' -- a reference to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs, the British tax collection agency -- ''and is also in talks with the Treasury.''
Google declined to comment Monday but has previously insisted that its tax practices comply with British law.
Amazon did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
The British parliamentary report stopped short of accusing the companies of tax fraud, but said their explanations had been ''unconvincing and, in some cases, evasive.''
''The inescapable conclusion is that multinationals are using structures and exploiting current tax legislation to move offshore profits that are clearly generated from economic activity in the U.K.,'' Ms. Hodge said.
The committee also criticized Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs, saying it had been too lenient.
The government said it would hire experts to investigate ''transfer pricing arrangements,'' which multinational companies use to reduce their tax liability in higher-tax jurisdictions.
''The government is clear that while most taxpayers are doing their bit to help us balance the books, it is unacceptable for a minority to avoid paying their fair share, sometimes by breaking the law,'' Mr. Osborne said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Starbucks generated sales of £398 million in Britain last year, yet paid no corporate tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); EURO (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



113 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Signs of Recovery for Asian Economies

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese economy picked up in November, but a broader global recovery remains fragile and patchy, a clutch of factory surveys suggested Monday, with activity elsewhere in Asia remaining largely subdued and demand from Europe and the United States depressed. 
Several major emerging economies that have contributed the most to global economic growth in recent years have been sputtering of late, with India expected to post its weakest full-year expansion of gross domestic product in a decade and Brazil logging an unexpectedly weak third quarter.
That has left investors once again hoping China will take up the slack, and evidence has been accumulating since late September that the Chinese economy is regaining some of its vigor after seven consecutive quarters of slowing growth.
The final reading of the HSBC China manufacturing purchasing managers' index showed Monday that it had risen to 50.5 in November from 49.5 in October, the first time since October 2011 that it had topped the line at 50 that separates growth from contraction.
''This confirms that the Chinese economy continues to recover gradually,'' wrote Qu Hongbin, HSBC's chief China economist.
It followed a similar survey from the Chinese National Bureau of Statistics, released Saturday, that showed the pace of growth in the manufacturing sector increasing.
The bureau's official purchasing managers' index rose to a seven-month high of 50.6 for November, from 50.2 in October.
But contained within the official data were potentially worrying signs that the Chinese economy had failed to shed its heavy reliance on state-led investment.
Growth accelerated for large companies for the third month in a row, but medium-size and small companies saw a retrenchment, with the decline more pronounced for small companies, the bureau said in a note with the data.
''The improving numbers are mostly because of government investment,'' said Dong Xianan, an economist with Peking First Advisory, referring to the official survey results. ''From the second quarter the government has unleashed a lot of projects, and that has started to be felt in the economy, but it's not a very healthy recovery yet.''
Two other export-driven Asian economies remain weak. The purchasing managers' indexes for November for South Korea and Taiwan remained below 50 for the sixth month in a row.
India, whose economic woes are as much to do with internal politics and its struggle to control a yawning fiscal deficit as with the global downturn, represented a bright spot among Monday's factory read-outs.
In India, factory activity has been expanding for over three-and-a-half years, although it remains well below the expansion rate seen in the years before the 2008 global financial crisis. The HSBC manufacturing purchasing managers' index for India beat expectations, rising to 53.7 in November from 52.9 in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



114 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1685 words

HEADLINE: An Age-Old Question: Readers Debate Science and Theology

 BODY:
Last week's essay, ''Between Rock of Ages and a Hard Place,'' by Nicholas Wade, on a comment by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida that the age of the earth was ''one of the great mysteries,'' prompted dozens of letters. Here are some of them, followed by a response from Mr. Wade.
To the Editor:
Nicholas Wade argues that creationists will be converted to evolution only when scientists show ''respect for all religions.'' That claim is patently false. Organizations like BioLogos, founded by Francis S. Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, have spent many years and much money trying to turn Christian creationists toward evolution by ''respecting their faith.'' It hasn't worked. 
Teaching that the Book of Genesis is a metaphor, as Mr. Wade suggests, is anathema to fundamentalists, since it implies that Jesus died for a metaphor: the original sin of a nonexistent Adam and Eve.
Reconciliation doesn't change minds; reason and logic do.
Jerry A. Coyne
Chicago
The writer is a professor of ecology and evolution at the University of Chicago and the author of ''Why Evolution Is True.''
To the Editor:
I doubt that Nicholas Wade's suggestion of handing fundamentalists a ''fig leaf'' on evolution would be effective in the way he intends. Stressing the word ''theory'' in the theory of evolution, as if it were just an idea, only reinforces the popular but incorrect reading of that word and suggests that science is uncertain in areas where it is not.
The late biologist Stephen Jay Gould suggested the metaphor of ''non-overlapping magisteria'' -- the concept that science and religion operate in two distinct, legitimate realms. When Senator Rubio was asked about the earth's age, his answer should have been: ''Are you asking me a question about science or a question about religion? Science tells me how the earth was created; religion tells me why.''
Rabbi Michael Z. Cahana
Portland, Ore.
To the Editor:
Words matter. Properly used, they define problems in ways that lead to solutions. Nicholas Wade suggests scientists should call evolution ''both a theory and a fact'' and adds that ''no one talks about Darwin's 'fact of evolution.' ''
For decades, I have corrected those who muddle the difference. I say, ''Darwin developed the theory of natural selection to explain the facts of evolution,'' and I recommend we all do so.
Darwin C. Hall
Long Beach, Calif.
The writer is an emeritus professor of economics and environmental science at California State University, Long Beach.
To the Editor:
In calling Senator Marco Rubio's answer to a question about the age of the earth ''15 back flips and a hissy fit,'' Nicholas Wade grossly misdescribed the answer quoted earlier in his article. Mr. Rubio's answer was a simple and ordinary evasion. It left room for Mr. Rubio's religious right supporters to hope that he will support teaching the Bible in science class, while leaving himself room not to appear to be an outright science denier, to appease his more scientific supporters.
Possibly, the article should have been put in the political news section rather than the science section; the scientific truth of the theory of evolution has not been news since about 1859.
David Rabinowitz
New York
To the Editor:
Nicholas Wade does not recognize that there are two categories of sciences: those that deal with past events and those that deal with the nature of things. Any dispute in the latter can be settled in a lab; not so simple for sciences that deal with past events, where any set of hard evidence can be made to fit multiple scenarios depending on beliefs.
Thus Senator Rubio is right when he says there are multiple theories about the creation of the universe and that children should be exposed to them -- not just to the atheistic scenario favored by the scientific community.
George Valliath
Winnetka, Ill.
To the Editor:
Nicholas Wade's fine article does include a misleading reference to Martin Luther, suggesting he was responsible for the Protestant belief that ''the Bible was the literal truth and the sole dependable source of divine knowledge.''
The source of that belief is a complex historical question; in fact, Luther had a much more critical view of Scripture than Mr. Wade suggests. He was suspicious of the Books of Hebrews, Jude and Revelation, and declared that the Book of James was an ''epistle of straw.''
Van A. Harvey
Palo Alto, Calif.
The writer is an emeritus professor of religion at Stanford University.
To the Editor:
Admitting evolution is a theory won't change anything. Gravity is a theory, but you don't see fundamentalists jumping out of 10th-floor windows. The problem here is not in the semantics of the discussion, but in the irrational refusal of empirical and scientific evidence by religious organizations.
Eric Schwaber
Medford, Mass.
To the Editor:
I have never met an actual scientist who ''allowed'' that evolution was anything but a theory. I have, however, seen ample evidence of science writers who take this position, thereby setting up a straw man they can then pretend to take down.
Christopher B. Boyko
New York
The writer is on the biology faculty at Dowling College.
Nicholas Wade replies:
Was I too hard on Senator Rubio? Our politicians have to cope with increasingly complex and technical issues. If they do not distinguish between good science and nonsense, they will be without guidance and, as I said, rudderless. But the thrust of the article was to blame the unresolved war between fundamentalists and scientists for putting politicians like Mr. Rubio in such a difficult position.
As Rabbi Cahana suggests, creationists like to say evolution is ''just a theory,'' as if it were mere speculation. In scientific parlance, however, a theory is a vast intellectual edifice that explains and is supported by a large array of facts and scientific laws. Evolution is a theory in the latter sense only.
Still, many diplomatic treaties are written so the two sides can interpret critical terms in their own way and allow business to proceed. This is the basis for a compromise: let fundamentalists interpret the word ''theory'' as they wish and in return cease to oppose the teaching of evolution in schools.
I confess that I lack Dr. Coyne's zeal for converting the creationists to Darwinism. Nor did I suggest it would be either possible or desirable.
What would be desirable is to get them to drop their opposition to teaching evolution in schools. That is a practical issue to be settled by negotiation. Unfortunately, the extremists on both sides are so fond of striking militant stances that the gap between them has only increased.
Behind Personality Disorders
To the Editor:
Re ''Thinking Clearly About Personality Disorders'' (Nov. 27): From a psychoanalytic perspective, one is always working clinically with the vagaries of personality that lead to patients' difficulties in living, and are often a foundational element of the symptoms of anxiety and depression that many people seek to ameliorate.
Whether or not such personality traits can be easily categorized may have academic importance, or be important to those who look to create diagnoses for insurance reimbursement. But they often have little value in the day-to-day work of the psychotherapy consulting room, where human relations come to bear on human problems in living.
Stefan R. Zicht
New York,
The writer is a clinical psychologist and psychoanalyst.
To the Editor:
As far back as the 1950s, John Bowlby and others documented the roles of relationships, neglect and trauma in generating mental illness. Researchers at McGill University have documented brain changes in adults who suffered trauma and abuse as children, changes that can be communicated to the offspring of these adults. All this work points to attachment between the infant and parent (a function of the limbic brain) as a survival mechanism going back millions of years.
If it is ''thinking clearly,'' the American Psychiatric Association must explain why it ignores a well-documented theory. Possibly the real issues are its bias toward drug treatment, and a bias by insurance companies against the necessary long-term psychotherapy.
Eric Wolf
Denver
The Hospital Revolving Door
To the Editor:
Re ''Hospitals Face Pressure to Avert Readmissions'' (Nov. 27): Over the past three years, the United Hospital Fund has worked with more than 40 hospitals and other health care organizations in New York City to improve transitions in care settings. We found that a big part of the problem is inadequate communication with family caregivers.
Many of the most vulnerable patients rely on family, friends or others to help them manage at home after hospital discharge, yet the participating organizations initially lacked adequate procedures to identify these individuals or include them in discharge plans. Many hospital readmissions are related to medication errors, yet nearly all family caregivers had questions about medications.
By focusing on these aspects of post-discharge care, health care providers that tracked readmissions were able to reduce rates and plan smoother transitions.
Carol Levine
New York
The writer is director of the Families and Health Care Project at the United Hospital Fund.
An Otter's Contributions
To the Editor:
''In Nature, Fatal Attractions Can Be Part of Life'' (Nov. 27) suggests that some biologists, including me, refused to comment on the sexual proclivities of Morgan the sea otter out of fear of sensationalizing behaviors that routinely occur in nature -- including humans, I might add. In truth, I refused an interview because the article would distort the life, and hence reduce the dignity, of this animal.
By focusing on one chapter of his life, the article misses the point that even in nature, sexual escapades are often contextual and short-lived. Ultimately, Morgan spent nine years helping our team discover the physiological vulnerabilities underlying wild sea otter declines in California. Clearly, if human social outcasts can be rehabilitated, so can sea otters.
Terrie M. Williams
Santa Cruz, Calif.
The writer is a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CREATIONISM (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); EVOLUTION THEORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



115 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing News Sends Shares Down

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks edged lower on Wall Street on Monday after a surprisingly weak manufacturing report heightened concern that the fiscal standoff in Washington was already hurting the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 59.98 points, or 0.46 percent, to close at 12,965.60. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.72 points, or 0.47 percent, to 1,409.46. The Nasdaq composite index lost 8.04 points, or 0.27 percent, to finish at 3,002.20. 
Manufacturing fell in November to its weakest level since July 2009, the Institute for Supply Management reported. The institute's index declined to 49.5 from 51.7 a month earlier. Analysts forecast 51.2. Any number below 50 means manufacturing is contracting. Businesses expressed concerns about the spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to start on Jan. 1 unless an agreement is reached to cut the federal budget deficit.
''The I.S.M. numbers probably took a little air out of what was some hope for better news on where the economy is going,'' Jim Dunigan, executive vice president at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia, said. ''We're still in the camp that this gets resolved,'' he said, ''but there's a lot of angst between now and then.''
The White House and Congress are still seeking to reach a budget deal. Republicans have balked at President Obama's opening proposal of $1.6 trillion in additional tax revenue over a decade, a possible extension of the temporary Social Security payroll tax cut and greater presidential power to raise the national debt limit.
House Republicans on Monday proposed their own 10-year blueprint, calling for a higher eligibility age for Medicare and reducing cost-of-living increases for Social Security benefits.
Stocks have fluctuated since the Nov. 6 election as investors worried that a deal might not be reached in time to avoid the tax increases and spending cuts, which economists say could push the nation back into recession. The S.& P. 500 is 1.3 percent below its closing level on the day Americans went to the polls.
Wall Street opened higher on Monday after news that manufacturing in China, the world's second-largest economy, had grown for the first time in 13 months, and after Greece announced details of a bond buyback program.
December is historically the best month of the year for stocks. The S.& P. 500 has risen an average of 2 percent during December over the last 30 years, according to data from Schaeffer's Investment Research.
Interest rates were steady on Monday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 3/32, to 100 1/32. The yield was 1.62 percent, up from 1.61 percent late on Friday.
Among stocks making big moves, Dell rose 42 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $10.06 after Goldman Sachs raised its rating to buy from sell.
Health Management Associates fell 45 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $7.50 after the CBS News program ''60 Minutes'' broadcast a segment critical of the company's patient admission policies.
Supervalu, the grocery chain, rose 30 cents, or 12.6 percent, to $2.68 after a report that the private equity firm Cerberus was looking at parts of the company.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); TAX INCREASES (88%); BONDS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MEDICARE (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DEBT CEILING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); DEBT NOTES (68%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



116 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: How Coastline Became A Place to Put the Poor

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER

 BODY:
In retrospect, after the storm, it looked like a perverse stroke of urban planning. Many of New York City's most vulnerable people had been housed in its most vulnerable places: public housing projects along the water, in areas like the Rockaways, Coney Island, Red Hook and Alphabet City.
How is it possible that the same winding, 538-mile coastline that has recently been colonized by condominium developers chasing wealthy New Yorkers, themselves chasing waterfront views, had been, for decades, a catch basin for many of the city's poorest residents? The answer is a combination of accident, grand vision and political expedience.
New York started building housing projects on the waterfront because that's where its poorest citizens happened to live. It continued because that's where space was most readily available. Finally, it built them there because that's where its projects already were. 
Consider the Rockaways, the narrow spit of land in southern Queens that was so emblematic of Hurricane Sandy's undemocratic wrath, and whose long row of oceanside towers (the Arverne, Hammel, Redfern and Edgemere developments) stand as a kind of dubious monument to a bygone era of New York City housing policy.
Projects first started to rise in the Rockaways in 1950. At the time, there was an unprecedented demand for housing, from returning veterans and blacks migrating from the South, as well as plenty of federal financing as a result of the Housing Act of 1949.
Above all, there was Robert Moses.
''Why did the Rockaways end up with so much government-financed housing? Largely because Robert Moses wanted it there,''says Robert Caro, author of ''The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York.''
It's impossible to talk about the landscape of modern New York without talking about Moses, who leveraged his position as head of the Mayor's Committee on Slum Clearance to mass-produce thousands of units of high-rise public housing, often near the shoreline. His shadow looms over much of the havoc wreaked by the storm.
The Rockaways were irresistible to Moses. Once a popular summer resort for middle-class New Yorkers, who filled its seaside bungalows and crowded into its amusement parks, the area had fallen on hard times when cars, new roads and improved train service made the beaches of Long Island more accessible.
Never one for nostalgia, Moses saw the Rockaways as both a symbol of the past and a justification for his own aggressive approach to urban renewal, to building what he envisioned as the city of the future. ''Such beaches as the Rockaways and those on Long Island and Coney Island lend themselves to summer exploitation, to honky-tonk catchpenny amusement resorts, shacks built without reference to health, sanitation, safety and decent living,'' he said, making his case for refashioning the old summer resorts into year-round residential communities.
What is more, the Rockaways had plenty of land that the city could buy cheaply, or simply seize under its newly increased powers of eminent domain, swaths big enough to accommodate the enormous public-housing towers Moses intended to build as part of his ''Rockaway Improvement Plan.'' Though only a tiny fraction of the population of Queens lived in the Rockaways, it would soon contain more than half of its public housing.
The old summer bungalows that weren't bulldozed in the process were repurposed as year-round housing for those uprooted by Moses' urban renewal -- derided as ''negro removal,'' by the writer James Baldwin -- across the city. In ''The Power Broker,'' Caro describes a federal housing official's shock at finding the bungalows filled in the winter, with ''several shivering Negro and Puerto Rican families in each.''
Initially, there was a strict screening process to get into the Rockaways' new projects. Over time, though, those with steady incomes were encouraged to leave, to make room for people on public assistance. To city officials, the Rockaways' distant location made it an ideal destination for troubled families and individuals. The projects that lined the seven-mile-long peninsula were soon joined by facilities for recently deinstitutionalized mental patients and high-rise nursing homes.
''After World War II, Rockaway was essentially treated as a dumping ground,'' says Lawrence Kaplan, the co-author of ''Between Ocean and City: The Transformation of Rockaway, New York,'' which details the area's devolution into an outpost for the city's neediest populations.
Today, in the aftermath of the storm, it is hard not to see the Rockaway projects as inherently flawed, doomed not only by their exposure to the storm-churned waters of the Atlantic, but by their very design. Densely populated, without any retail space, and isolated from the rest of the city, the mostly poor residents have relied on help arriving from the outside. Moses may have thought he was breaking up the city's ghettos; in fact, he was relocating them and setting them in concrete.
Dig a little further back, though, and there is another way to look at these and the rest of New York's projects, not as a callous solution to the city's obligation to provide shelter for those in need, but as the product of a progressive government's good intentions gone awry.
It was New York's Little Flower, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, who first decided that the city's slums had to go, that all of his citizens -- including ''the other half,'' as Jacob Riis unforgettably described the city's poor -- were entitled to clean, modern and affordable housing.
La Guardia's gaze turned immediately to the derelict waterfront and its cold-water flats, ''rotten, antiquated ratholes'' that had been hastily constructed in the 19th century to accommodate the surge of European immigrants who worked predominantly on the docks, which were then bustling. The city's first projects, on the Lower East Side, along the Harlem River and in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, were erected as part of Depression-era work relief programs.
New York's first project to be underwritten by the United States Housing Authority, the Red Hook Houses, was built on a large patch of cheap land just blocks from what was once one of the city's busiest port. A modest six stories tall, they were hailed in 1940 as a model of public housing, ''a Versailles for the Millions,'' in the words of the architecture critic Lewis Mumford. The description could not have seemed more dissonant in the aftermath of the storm, when its residents endured three weeks of Third World squalor.
Gradually, the projects grew taller and drifted farther from the city's center, in large part thanks to Moses, who, like many urban planners of his era, believed that high-rises represented the most land-efficient and cost-effective way to house the maximum number of people.
In Coney Island, as in the Rockaways, Moses looked at a struggling seaside resort and saw an opportunity for large-scale public housing. There too, his grand improvement plans probably only accelerated the neighborhood's decline. ''From the 1940s on it was like a self-fulfilling prophecy,'' says Charles Denson, the author of ''Coney Island: Lost and Found.''
By the middle of the 1960s, Moses' power was waning, and his approach to public housing -- the imposition of large projects on unstable neighborhoods -- had been judged a failure, both from a moral and an urban-planning perspective. But the need for low-income housing hadn't abated, and the only areas where it was politically feasible to build it were places where projects already existed. And so more towers went up, in both the Rockaways and Coney Island.
Mayor John V. Lindsay, who took office in 1965, was determined to break this cycle, to put low-income projects in middle-class neighborhoods. He tried, memorably, in 1971 in Forest Hills, Queens, figuring that the community's predominantly liberal Jewish population would not object to the arrival of three 24-story towers. He was wrong. The construction site was soon overrun with angry protesters.
The Forest Hills debacle more or less put an end to the construction of large-scale public housing in New York. Politicians and urban planners were moving on to a new idea, known as ''ghetto rehabilitation.'' The large sums required to build high-rise towers were no longer flowing from Washington, and New York City itself was on the brink of bankruptcy. The Rockaways' last high-rise project, the Beach 41st Street Houses, were completed in 1972, Coney Island's in 1974.
That so many huge islands of public housing still exist in New York some 40 years later makes the city something of an anomaly: The federal government has literally blown up similarly scaled public housing in cities across America, writing it off as the legacy of a badly misguided era of urban planning.
But in New York the projects have survived, outlasting first the ever-evolving policies of housing reformers, and now, Hurricane Sandy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Moses, seated at left in 1959, used his position as head of the Mayor's Committee on Slum Clearance to mass-produce thousands of units of public housing, often near the shoreline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEYER LIEBOWITZ/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); BEACHES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RESORTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



117 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SPARKS JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Brothel Owner Raises Profile With Election Victory

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SPARKS, Nev. -- Sex for sale aside, brothels here tend to be modest businesses: shoddy buildings kept out of sight in rural areas, on the outskirts of town or camouflaged in a thicket of cottonwood trees.
But the inconspicuous was thrust into the spotlight last month with the election of Lance Gilman, owner of the country's first licensed brothel, to a seat on the Storey County Board of Commissioners.
''Nevadans don't care about brothels,'' said Mr. Gilman, 68, proprietor of the Mustang Ranch. ''It's everybody else who gets so excited.'' 
Storey County covers 262 square miles of high desert and sagebrush east of Reno, and Mr. Gilman, an industrial developer originally from San Diego, owns nearly 65 percent of the county.
On that land, Mr. Gilman and his business partner are creating what they bill as the largest industrial park in the world.
Mr. Gilman expects that once the project is complete, some 150,000 people will work in the park, nearly 40 times the county's current population. Already 1,800 trucks arrive each day to Walmart and PetSmart distribution centers here.
And at the edge of all that workaday commerce, just 17 miles from Reno, Mr. Gilman's brothel traffics in after-hours pleasures.
Whether the product is sex, manufacturing or Internet server farms, Mr. Gilman is a free-market kind of guy. ''I'm focused on keeping this place pro-business and not regulating our little county to death,'' he said.
Mr. Gilman is one of a new breed of brothel owners in Nevada, newcomers who made their fortunes in other industries and who are not afraid of publicity. He is believed to be the first brothel owner to be elected to public office in the state, and his run made some in the legal sex industry nervous.
George Flint, a lobbyist for the Nevada Brothel Owners Association, said: ''I'm of the old school, I believe the best way to survive in this business is to stay low profile. These new guys come in and assume that with legality comes acceptability, they don't have an understanding of the industry's fragileness.''
Still, licensed brothels like the Mustang Ranch enjoy wide support across rural Nevada. More than half those surveyed in a statewide poll in 2011 said they thought prostitution should be legal.
''You can't hold it against a person that they're involved in a profession that's been in existence since before Jesus walked around in his sandals,'' said Corrie Northan, 46, a bartender at the Bucket of Blood Saloon in Virginia City, the county seat. ''This state was formed from gambling, drinking and brothels and there's no shame in that.''
During his campaign, Mr. Gilman knocked on the doors of some 1,500 county residents, and he says just two people even mentioned his brothel and only to compliment him.
Prostitution has been a mainstay in Storey County since the discovery of silver ore here in 1859. Men arrived from all over the country, and by 1860 women made up just 5 percent of the city's population.
''There have been brothels in these towns continuously since they were founded,'' said Barbara Brents, a sociology professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who studies the state's sex industry. ''Brothels are legal now because counties codified what was already here.''
Under state law, counties with fewer than 400,000 residents can license brothels, ruling out only Clark County, home to Las Vegas, and Washoe County, which includes Reno. Of the state's 17 counties, 10 or so contain licensed brothels.
Some 23 legal brothels currently operate in Nevada, though the number fluctuates seasonally. Before 2008, these brothels had some 500,000 customers a year, bringing in $250 million annually. When the recession hit, those revenues fell by half, according to the brothel owners' group.
The Mustang Ranch is among the largest legal brothels in the state. During the pre-recession years, it employed as many as 80 prostitutes, with up to 250 customers a day.
This location is something of a second chance for the Mustang Ranch. In 1971, the ranch became the first licensed brothel in the country under the ownership of Joe Conforte, a flamboyant Sicilian who fled to Brazil in 1990 after the Internal Revenue Service charged him with tax evasion.
The federal government eventually seized the land under the brothel and in 2003 auctioned off the name and buildings on eBay, where Mr. Gilman snapped them up for $145,100 and, using a helicopter, moved them to a new location.
The expanded accommodations reopened under the management of a madam, Susan Austin, 62, who met Mr. Gilman when he picked her out of a lineup of ''working girls'' at another brothel.
''Storey County has been kind to us and we've been kind to Storey County,'' Ms. Austin said. ''If you do prostitution correctly, in a clean, regulated and controlled way, it's a benefit to the community.''
On a recent afternoon, 34 prostitutes were at the brothel. A group of scantily clad women welcomed customers at the bar, while others wandered around the back rooms in pajamas and fluffy slippers.
''I don't have any problem with prostitution,'' said Marshall McBride, 55, who joined Mr. Gilman as a newly elected member of the three-seat county commission. ''In the past, brothels have been an economic driver in this county and now Lance Gilman is the economic driver.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lance Gilman, owner of the Mustang Ranch brothel and nearly 65 percent of the land in Storey County, was elected to the county Board of Commissioners.
 Workers at the Mustang. Mr. Gilman said: ''Nevadans don't care about brothels. It's everybody else who gets so excited.'' He and his partners are also developing what they call the world's largest industrial park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROSTITUTION (91%); COUNTIES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); LOBBYING (67%)

COMPANY: PETSMART INC (55%)

TICKER: PETM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541940 VETERINARY SERVICES (55%); NAICS453910 PET & PET SUPPLIES STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (88%) NEVADA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



118 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: For Buffett, Long View Still Trumps Quick Return

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
"If somebody bought Berkshire Hathaway in 1965 and they held it, they made a great investment - and their broker would have starved to death."
Warren E. Buffett was sitting across from me over lunch at a private club in Midtown Manhattan last week, lamenting the current state of Wall Street, which promotes a trading culture over an investing culture and offers incentives for brokers and traders to generate fees and fast profits.
"The emphasis on trading has increased. Just look at the turnover in all of the stocks," he said, adding with a smile: "Sales people have forever gotten paid by selling people something. Generally, you pay a doctor for how often he gets you to change prescriptions."
Mr. Buffett, 82, is famous for investing in companies that he sees as solid operations and essential to the economy, like railroads, utilities and financial companies, and holds his stakes for the long run. The argument that the markets are better off today because of the enormous amount of liquidity in the stock market, a function of quick flipping and electronic trading, is a fallacy, he said. 
"You can't buy 10 percent of the farmland in Nebraska in three years if you set out to do it," he said. Yet, he pointed out, he was able to buy the equivalent of 10 percent of I.B.M. in six to eight months as a result of the market's liquidity. "The idea that people look at their holdings in such a way that that kind of volume exists means that to a great extent, it's a casino game," he said. Of course, unlike many investors, he plans to hold his stake in I.B.M. for years.
Mr. Buffett was in a reminiscing mood about a bygone era, in part because he was in New York to make the rounds on television to discuss a new book chronicling his 61-year career, which began in 1951 at Buffett-Falk & Company in Omaha. (After lunch, he was going to visit "The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.")
The book, "Tap Dancing to Work," by a longtime journalist and good friend of his, Carol Loomis of Fortune magazine, is a compendium of articles that she and others wrote in Fortune that creates a series of narratives spanning the arc of his career.
Ms. Loomis, who first met Mr. Buffett in 1967 - and whose long career is a story unto itself - also came to our lunch. Ms. Loomis may know more about Mr. Buffett than he knows about himself. ("There's nothing here you're going to like," she said, after surveying the various pies when the dessert cart came around. She was right: he took a quick look and asked if they served ice cream. They did.)
As we talked about the "good old days" - he spoke of some of his early friends who were successful hedge fund investors, like Julian Robertson, who founded Tiger Management - it became clear that he was less enamored of the investor class of the next generation.
When I asked, for example, if there were any private equity investors that he admired, he flatly replied: "No."
When I asked if he followed any hedge fund managers, he struggled to name any, before saying that he liked Seth Klarman, a low-key value investor who runs the Baupost Group, based in Boston.
"They're not as good as the old ones generally. The field has gotten swamped, so there's so much money playing and people have been able to raise money by just saying 'hedge fund,'" he said. "That was not the case earlier on; you really had to have some performance for some time before people would put money with you. It's a marketing thing."
For a moment, he paused, and then posited that if he started a hedge fund today, "I'd probably grow faster, because a record now would attract money a lot faster," speculating that his record of returns would attract billions of dollars from pension funds and others. But he then acknowledged a truism of investing that he knows all too well, as the manager of an enterprise that is now worth some $220 billion: "Then money starts getting self-defeating at a point, too."
Until 1969, Mr. Buffett operated a private partnership that was akin in some ways to a modern hedge fund, except the fee structure was decidedly different. Instead of charging "2 and 20" - a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of profits - Mr. Buffett's investors "keep all of the annual gains up to 6 percent; above that level Buffett takes a one-quarter cut," Ms. Loomis wrote. However, in 1969, he announced he would shutter his partnership. "This is a market I don't understand," he said, according to Ms. Loomis.
He believed that the stock market of 1968 had become wildly overpriced - and he was right. By the end of 1974, the market took a tumble. Instead, he remained the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, one of his early investments.
"If you want to make a lot of money and you own a hedge fund or a private equity fund, there's nothing like 2 and 20 and a lot of leverage," he said over a lunch of Cobb salad. "If I kept my partnership and owned Berkshire through that, I would have made even more money."
Mr. Buffett says he now considered himself as much a business manager as an investor. "The main thing I'm doing is trying to build a business, and now we built one. Investing is part of it but it is not the main thing."
Today, Mr. Buffett is particularly circumspect about the investment strategies that hedge funds employ, like shorting, or betting against, a company's stock. He used to short companies as part of a hedging strategy when he ran his partnership, but now he says that he and Charlie Munger, his longtime friend and vice chairman of Berkshire, see it as too hard.
"Charlie and I both have talked about it, we probably had a hundred ideas of things that would be good short sales. Probably 95 percent of them at least turned out to be, and I don't think we would have made a dime out of it if we had been engaged in the activity. It's too difficult," he explained, suggesting that the timing of short investments is crucial. "The whole thing about 'longs' is, if you know you're right, you can just keep buying, and the lower it goes, the better you like it, and you can't do that with shorts."
One of his big worries these days is about what's going to happen to all the pension money that is being invested in the markets, often with little success, in part because investors are constantly buying and selling securities on the advice of brokers and advisers, rather than holding them for the long term. "Most institutional investors, whoever is in charge - whether it's the college treasurer or the trustees of the pension fund of some state - they're buying what they're sold."
Most pension funds probably didn't buy Berkshire in 1965 and hold it, but if they had, they would have far fewer problems today. At the end of her book, Ms. Loomis notes that when she mentioned Mr. Buffett's name for the first time in Fortune magazine in 1966 - accidentally spelling Buffett with only one "t" - Berkshire was trading at $22 a share. Today it is almost $133,000 a share.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett at a New York book party for ''Tap Dancing to Work,'' by Carol Loomis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONALD BOWERS/GETTY IMAGES FOR FORTUNE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ICE CREAM (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); SALES & SELLING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (66%); DANCE (50%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (91%); JON STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



119 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: High-Speed Trades Hurt Investors, a Study Says

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER and CHRISTOPHER LEONARD; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A top government economist has concluded that the high-speed trading firms that have come to dominate the nation's financial markets are taking significant profits from traditional investors.
The chief economist at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Andrei Kirilenko, reports in a coming study that high-frequency traders make an average profit of as much as $5.05 each time they go up against small traders buying and selling one of the most widely used financial contracts.
The agency has not endorsed Mr. Kirilenko's findings, which are still being reviewed by peers, and they are already encountering some resistance from academics. But Bart Chilton, one of five C.F.T.C. commissioners, said on Monday that ''what the study shows is that high-frequency traders are really the new middleman in exchange trading, and they're taking some of the cream off the top.'' 
Mr. Kirilenko's work stands in contrast to several statements from government officials who have expressed uncertainty about whether high-speed traders are earning profits at the expense of ordinary investors.
The study comes as a council of the nation's top financial regulators is showing increasing concern that the accelerating automation and speed of the financial markets may represent a threat both to other investors and to the stability of the financial system.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council, an organization formed after the recent financial crisis to deal with systemic risks, took up the issue at a meeting in November that was closed to the public, according to minutes that were released Monday.
The gathering of top regulators, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said in its annual report this summer that recent developments ''could lead to unintended errors cascading through the financial system.'' The C.F.T.C. is a member of the oversight council.
The issue of high-frequency trading has generated anxiety among investors in the stock market, where computerized trading first took hold. But the minutes from the oversight council, and the council's annual report released this year, indicate that top regulators are viewing the automation of trading as a broader concern as high-speed traders move into an array of financial markets, including bond and foreign currency trading.
Mr. Kirilenko's study focused on one corner of the financial markets that the C.F.T.C. oversees, contracts that are settled based on the future value of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. He and his co-authors, professors at Princeton and the University of Washington, chose the contract because it is one of the most heavily traded financial assets in any market and is popular with a broad array of investors.
Using previously private data, Mr. Kirilenko's team found that from August 2010 to August 2012, high-frequency trading firms were able to reliably capture profits by buying and selling futures contracts from several types of traditional investors.
The study notes that there are different types of high-frequency traders, some of which are more aggressive in initiating trades and some of which are passive, simply taking the other side of existing offers in the market.
The researchers found that more aggressive traders accounted for the largest share of trading volume and made the biggest profits. The most aggressive scored an average profit of $1.92 for every futures contract they traded with big institutional investors, and made an average $3.49 with a smaller, retail investor. Passive traders, on the other hand, saw a small loss on each contract traded with institutional investors, but they made a bigger profit against retail investors, of $5.05 a contract.
Large investors can trade thousands of contracts at once to bet on future shifts in the S.& P. 500 index. The average aggressive high-speed trader made a daily profit of $45,267 in a month in 2010 analyzed by the study.
Industry profits have been falling, however, as overall stock trading volume has dropped and the race for the latest technological advances has increased costs.
Mr. Kirilenko, who is about to leave the C.F.T.C. for an academic position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, presented a draft of the paper at a C.F.T.C. conference last week. He said that the markets were a ''zero sum game'' in which the high-speed profits came at the expense of other traders.
Mr. Kirilenko warned that the smaller traders might leave the futures markets if their profits were drained away, opting instead to operate in less transparent markets where high-speed traders would not get in the way.
''They will go someplace that's darker,'' Mr. Kirilenko said at the conference. That could destabilize futures markets long used by traders to hedge risk.
A spokesman for the C.F.T.C. said the agency had no comment on the study. But the paper was immediately hailed by Mr. Chilton, who is a Democrat and a critic of recent shifts in the markets.
Mr. Chilton said that the study would make it easier for regulators ''to put forth regulations in a streamlined fashion. It's a key step in the process and it should fuel-inject the regulatory effort going forward.''
Terrence Hendershott, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, said there was a limit to the importance of Mr. Kirilenko's work because it focused on profits and did not address the benefits high-speed traders bring.
Mr. Hendershott and many other academics have found that the competition between high-speed traders has helped lower the cost of trading for ordinary investors. But Mr. Hendershott said that limited data available to researchers had made it hard to determine whether the benefits outweighed the costs.
The speed and complexity of the financial markets jumped onto the agenda of regulators after the so-called flash crash of 2010, when leading stock indexes fell almost 10 percent in less than half an hour, before quickly making up most of the losses.
In its first annual report, in 2011, the Financial Stability Oversight Council noted the concerns raised by the flash crash, but not in great detail. This year's report included a much fuller discussion of the risks posed by the increasing speed and complexity of the financial markets and called for regulators to look for more ways to limit the risks.
Regulators have said that devising new rules has been hard, in part because the trading world has become so complex, making it difficult to determine the total effect that all the innovations have had on traditional investors. Mr. Kirilenko said in an interview Monday that his study was intended to address that.
''We're not estimating,'' he said. ''Our data is excellent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The economist Andrei Kirilenko's findings are still being reviewed by peers and have encountered opposition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS) (B1)
 Bart Chilton of the C.F.T.C. says high-speed traders are taking ''some of the cream off the top.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



120 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Is Law School a Good Investment?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Law School Is Worth the Money'' (Op-Ed, Nov. 29):
I have no doubt that Lawrence E. Mitchell, dean of Case Western Reserve University's law school, sincerely believes in the value of law school, but his arguments do not match the reality of the world as this lawyer for 17 years sees it. The job market for new lawyers remains abysmal, and that will not change for several years. There are far too many lawyers chasing too few jobs.
Yes, the top 10 percent from good schools will always find work, but that excludes the vast majority of law school graduates. While a very small number of people with J.D.'s flourish in other fields, I have yet to hear any significant number of them credit their legal education for that success. Three years of legal education and $125,000 of debt hardly makes sense if you want to become a banker, art director or nonprofit director. 
Law schools continue to raise tuition considerably in excess of inflation, paying deans and professors very nicely along the way. In large part, the schools are not providing the training that benefits law firms, so we begin with new graduates who largely lack useful skills. I'd prefer to hear how law schools will fix the problems rather than a full-throated defense of the indefensible.
JAMES D. SMITH Phoenix, Nov. 29, 2012
To the Editor:
Lawrence E. Mitchell trots out salary means and medians to justify an investment in law school. But let's cross-examine him on the risk.
Isn't it true that the expense and debt of law school exceeds $150,000 at many schools? Isn't it true that repayments are often insensitive to future income and seldom dischargeable in bankruptcy? Isn't it true that the future income to repay those loans depends greatly on geography and grades?
And so, won't many with reasonable doubt about their ability to end up atop their class or who want to work in less lucrative geographic or practice areas or who can't get into a school quite as good as yours now rationally treat law school as very risky?
And so, Dean Mitchell, won't you admit that until legal educators come to grips with this reality, many smart people will do something else with their talents?
SETH J. CHANDLER Houston, Nov. 29, 2012
The writer is a professor at the University of Houston Law Center.
To the Editor:
Whether law school is worth the money is debatable. But it's the wrong question. Instead, would-be law students should ask themselves what they hope to accomplish in life.
I went to law school because I wanted to make a difference in the world through politics. After graduating and passing the bar exam, I spent a month sitting on a sofa in a Congressional office answering constituent calls. Eventually I found a calling in criminal justice advocacy. Though I live in a studio apartment and expect to be paying down school loans until middle age, I love what my legal education allows me to do.
For those who want to get rich, there are more efficient means than law school. But for those who want to do a lot of good, there are worse places to start.
JEREMY HAILE Washington, Nov. 29, 2012
To the Editor:
The legal market was in trouble before the financial crisis, and its growth rate over the next decade is never going to be great enough to accommodate the annual number of graduates from law schools.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that about 73,600 new lawyer jobs will be created between 2010 and 2020. According to the American Bar Association, American law schools graduated an annual average of 44,252 students between 2010 and 2012.
If that rate holds until 2020, then there would be about 370,000 more law graduates than new law jobs. In other words, there will be five new law graduates for each new law job created between 2010 and 2020.
People do not need to spend more than $100,000 studying law for other ''problem solving'' careers. Their money and time would be better spent learning skills more directly relevant to their future occupations.
ELIZABETH F. BROWN Atlanta, Nov. 29, 2012
The writer has a law degree and teaches classes in business law.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY AND JASON BAMFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (92%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WRITERS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%) ARIZONA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



121 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls on Russia to Renew Weapons Pact

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama called on Russia on Monday to renew a two-decade-old nuclear disarmament program that Moscow has threatened to cancel as the two sides try to figure out the future of a rocky relationship now that elections in both countries are behind them.
Russia declared this fall that it would not renew the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, which has helped rid the former Soviet Union of thousands of nuclear weapons since the end of the cold war. But in a speech, Mr. Obama chose to interpret the Russian statements as a negotiating position to change the program rather than halt it altogether. 
''Russia has said that our current agreement hasn't kept pace with the changing relationship between our countries,'' Mr. Obama said at the National Defense University, where he praised the program's accomplishments. ''To which we say, let's update it. Let's work with Russia as an equal partner. Let's continue the work that's so important to the security of both our countries. And I'm optimistic that we can.''
Whether Russia is willing to do that remains unclear. Even if it is, Moscow has suggested that it would link the renewal of the program to concessions by the United States on its plans to deploy a missile defense system in Europe intended to defend against Iranian aggression. Mr. Obama was overheard telling his Russian counterpart this year that ''after my election I have more flexibility'' on missile defense, prompting Republicans to accuse him of plotting to sell out the system.
Mr. Obama made no mention of missile defense on Monday, but in reaching out to Moscow he seemed to be taking the opening step in a postelection dance in which the two countries will re-evaluate their ties. His effort to reset the relationship after a rupture over the Georgia war of 2008 succeeded for a time in stabilizing ties, but the atmosphere has cooled noticeably since Vladimir V. Putin returned to the presidency this year.
In recent months, Russia ordered the United States Agency for International Development to leave and enacted laws focused on nongovernmental organizations receiving foreign financing. As a result, the National Democratic Institute, an American-financed organization that promotes democracy, moved to Lithuania last month, and its counterpart, the International Republican Institute, is likely to follow.
The announcement in October that Russia would not renew the Nunn-Lugar program when it expires in the spring underscored how sour relations had become. Through all the ups and downs over the past 20 years, Nunn-Lugar had always been largely immune to the political tides, in part because Russia saw that having American money and help in slimming down its nuclear arsenal was in its own interest.
Since it began, Nunn-Lugar has helped to deactivate 7,600 nuclear warheads and destroy or eliminate 900 intercontinental ballistic missiles, 500 missile silos, 680 submarine-launched ballistic missiles and 900 nuclear air-to-surface missiles. But the program still envisioned getting rid of hundreds more weapons to meet goals for 2017.
Russia said it would take over the costs and responsibilities of continuing the program, in effect asserting that after its economic and geopolitical resurgence of recent years, it no longer needs foreign help. But Mr. Obama has not given up on preserving the program, although aides said no specific negotiations were under way to renew it.
American officials hope that last month's election will make it possible for the two sides to get back on a better footing. After Mr. Obama's victory, the two presidents spoke by telephone and Mr. Obama accepted Mr. Putin's invitation to visit Russia in 2013. Presumably he would go to St. Petersburg for the Group of 20 summit meeting that Mr. Putin will host in September.
Mr. Obama's outreach to Russia on Nunn-Lugar came during a speech paying tribute to its patrons, former Senator Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, who lost a primary this year. Mr. Obama hailed them on Monday as ''real visionaries'' who ''challenged us to think anew, to imagine, after decades of confrontation, how our nations might engage in cooperation.''
But, he added: ''We're nowhere near done, not by a long shot, and you all know this. There's still much too much material -- nuclear, chemical, biological -- being stored without enough protection. There are still terrorists and criminal gangs doing everything they can to get their hands on it. And make no mistake, if they get it, they will use it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Monday after delivering a speech at the National Defense University in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GEORGIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



122 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Recruiting Young Talent in China to Find the Next Big Idea

BYLINE: By RON GLUCKMAN

 BODY:
BEIJING - As he discusses technology, Stephen Bell, with his shaved head, glasses and dark Levi's, channels Apple's co-founder, Steven P. Jobs.
"Name some companies that have changed the world." Mr. Bell tells the crowd at a local university, writing their replies in chalk on a blackboard. Google, Apple, Microsoft, Facebook. "And who created them? That's right, students, just like you."
But one student meekly disagrees, noting that the companies were started by entrepreneurs in America. "They have a different culture," he says. "Not like here in China."
Mr. Bell, a venture capitalist, wants to change that perception. 
Like a high-powered talent scout, Mr. Bell, the co-founder of Trilogy VC, tours China's top universities, seeking fledgling entrepreneurs. Each year, he offers millions of dollars to young students, who often have just a kernel of an idea. It's not just early-stage investments. It's early-early stage.
"I'm not looking for revenue flow, and not interested in user numbers," he said. "I'm looking for doers."
On a chilly day in early November, Mr. Bell was surrounded by five dozen students at Beijing's Tsinghua University, the country's top science and technology university, often referred to as China's M.I.T. It was the last day of ChinaStars, a marathon programming competition he hosts four times a year.
At the outset, students were given 60 seconds to present an idea. Teams were formed, and they had 72 hours to create an actual program or application. "Just focus on doing one thing well," Mr. Bell told them. Over the three days, he and other mentors circulated, suggesting new approaches and offering insights.
This was no idle exercise. Within days, the initial projects were presented, and several teams were awarded $5,000. Some eventually secured additional financing from Trilogy, up to $100,000 over 18 months.
"Nobody else is doing anything like this in China," said Malcolm CasSelle, an American entrepreneur who worked for decades in China. "This is high risk, but you really see the value. Some of these kids have amazing ideas."
Mr. Bell saw a cross section of products from the student teams. Applications included one to allow online beauty shops to provide advice and sell products directly to customers, one for an online shop that delivers food and basic supplies on college campuses, one for a book-sharing site that doubles as a literary matchmaking service and one for a cloud dictionary that lets users add definitions and pictures.
The odds were against all of them, said Mr. Bell, who was not bothered. With a purse of more than $2 million a year, he plans to offer financing to 15 to 30 start-ups. "I only need to hit one home run among a hundred, and I'm doing fine."
Mr. Bell is trying to carve out an investment niche, as more money pours into China. In recent years, investors have flocked to the country, in part because of diminished prospects elsewhere. While investment largely dipped in 2011, many analysts said China rebounded by mid-2012.
"Venture capital investment in China has cooled down, no question," said Jeff Richards, partner at GGV Capital, a Silicon Valley firm that recently started a $625 million fund, largely focused on China. "But if your G.D.P. growth slows from 9 or 10 percent to 7 percent, that's still pretty attractive compared to 1.5 percent, like in America."
Some venture capitalists fret that China is overheated. "There is tons and tons of money chasing deals here," said Dave McClure, a veteran of PayPal, Facebook and LinkedIn, and founding partner of 500 Startups, a venture capital firm that has made six investments in China in the last two years. "There is all this drooling about China. In a lot of ways, it reminds me of the late 1990s in the U.S. China may not be overheated, but it is overhyped."
Mr. Bell is trying a different tack from many of his peers. Rather than risk large sums on established start-ups, Mr. Bell is wagering that lots of small bets placed strategically can produce a few jackpots. "Our mission is to find the next Mark Zuckerberg, the next Larry and Sergey," he said, referring to the founders of Facebook and Google.
"Young people are going to create all the cool stuff," Mr. Bell said. "They are going to start the biggest companies, and they come cheap. I don't need experience - that costs too much money and produces mainstream ideas. I want ideas nobody has thought of."
Mr. Bell has been on both sides of the venture capital equation, as an entrepreneur and an investor.
A native of Long Island in New York, he graduated from Georgia Tech in 1985 with a degree in chemical engineering and afterward joined GE Plastics. In the 1990s, he founded CORE Products, an auto supplier based in Switzerland, and an early business-to-business firm, SupplySolution, which was eventually sold to Tradebeam.
In 2002, he moved to Trilogy, an American software firm started by Joe Liemandt, a Stanford dropout. Mr. Liemandt became known for recruiting young talent through innovative outreach programs like ChinaStars.
While at Trilogy, Mr. Bell traveled to India and China to sell Trilogy software to companies in emerging markets. He left Trilogy in 2006 for another start-up, Shangby, which connected jewelry stores in Shanghai via the Internet with customers around the globe.
Mr. Bell said the experience convinced him of the opportunity in China.
"There is so much energy and innovation here," he said. "This is definitely the place to be, and the time to be here."
Since 2009, Mr. Bell has been based full time in China as the managing general partner of Trilogy VC, which he formed with Mr. Liemandt. So far, Trilogy VC has financed 30 start-ups, largely focusing on games, social networks, dating sites and other programs geared toward young Chinese.
According to the firm, eight of the start-ups are already profitable. Others are growing rapidly, like Droidhen, a game developer with a presence on half of all Android phones; JiaThis, which lets users share across Chinese social networks; and Takaopu, a popular dating service on RenRen.
Takaopu was developed by a student at a ChinaStars competition, Mr. Bell said. "He figured out that the problem with previous China dating sites was face." Chinese dread risking public embarrassment. "His great idea was to make it anonymous, so you only revealed your identity slowly, later on, kind of like a game."
Mr. Bell works closely with his young entrepreneurs. "I don't invest in products, but in people," he said. "I'm always open, always listening."
It was an attractive quality to Jiang Chao, who is working on his doctorate at Beijing University. Mr. Jiang saw a notice on a student bulletin board about an American entrepreneur giving away money in a competition. He decided to give it a try, and his company, Takaopu, received $80,000 from Trilogy VC.
"Money isn't the most important thing that Stephen gives us. Yes, the money helped us get servers and more help, like designers," he said. "But more important is what I learned, that there are people like me, that have the same dream, to create something."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Bell, left, at Tsinghua University in Beijing with students and mentors for ChinaStars, a competition he hosts to find fledgling entrepreneurs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON GLUCKMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LITERATURE (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); FINANCING ROUNDS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (93%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (93%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012



123 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: The Truly Grand Bargain

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Sometimes you have to walk through the desert to get to the Promised Land. That's the way it is for Republicans right now. The Republicans are stuck in a miserable position at the end of 2012, but, if they handle things right, they can make 2013 an excellent year -- both for their revival prospects and for the country.
First, they have to acknowledge how badly things are stacked against them. Polls show that large majorities of Americans are inclined to blame Republicans if the country goes off the ''fiscal cliff.'' The business community, which needs a deal to boost confidence, will turn against them. The national security types and the defense contractors, who hate the prospect of sequestration, will turn against them. 
Moreover a budget stalemate on these terms will confirm every bad Republican stereotype. Republicans will be raising middle-class taxes in order to serve the rich -- shafting Sam's Club to benefit the country club. If Republicans do this, they might as well get Mitt Romney's ''47 percent'' comments printed on T-shirts and wear them for the rest of their lives.
So Republicans have to realize that they are going to cave on tax rates. The only question is what they get in return. What they should demand is this: That the year 2013 will be spent putting together a pro-growth tax and entitlement reform package that will put this country on a sound financial footing through 2040.
Republicans should go to the White House and say they are willing to see top tax rates go up to 36 percent or 37 percent and they are willing to forgo a debt-ceiling fight for this year.
This is a big political concession, but it's not much of an economic one. President Obama needs rate increases to show the liberals he has won a ''victory,'' but the fact is that raising revenue by raising rates is not that much worse for the economy than raising revenue by closing loopholes, which Republicans have already conceded.
In return, Republicans should also ask for some medium-size entitlement cuts as part of the fiscal cliff down payment. These could fit within the framework Speaker John Boehner sketched out Monday afternoon: chaining Social Security cost-of-living increases to price inflation and increasing the Medicare Part B premium to 35 percent of costs.
But the big demand would be this: That on March 15, 2013, both parties would introduce leader-endorsed tax and entitlement reform bills in Congress that would bring the debt down to 60 percent of G.D.P. by 2024 and 40 percent by 2037, as scored by the Congressional Budget Office. Those bills would work their way through the normal legislative process, as the Constitution intended. If a Grand Bargain is not reached by Dec. 15, 2013, then there would be automatic defense and entitlement cuts and automatic tax increases.
Both parties say they are earnest about fundamental tax and entitlement reform. This deal would force them to think beyond the 10-year budget window and put credible plans on the table to address the long-term budget problems while there is still time. No more waiting for the other guy to go public with something serious. The ensuing debate would force voters to face the elemental truth -- that they can only have a government as big as they are willing to pay for. It would force elected officials to find a long-term pro-growth solution as big as Simpson-Bowles.
Republicans could say to the country: Hey, we don't like raising tax rates. But we understand that when a nation is running a $16 trillion debt that is exploding year by year, everybody has to be willing to make compromises and sacrifices. We understand that the big thing holding the country back is that the political system doesn't function. We want to tackle big things right now.
The year 2013 would then be spent on natural Republican turf (tax and entitlement reform) instead of natural Democratic turf (expanding government programs). Democrats would have to submit a long-term vision for the country that either reduced entitlement benefits or raised middle-class taxes, violating Obama's campaign pledge. Republicans would have to face their own myths and evasions, and become a true reform and modernization party.
The 2012 concession on tax rates would be overshadowed by the 2013 debate on the fiscal future. The world would see that America is tackling its problem in a way that Europe isn't. Political power in each party would shift from the doctrinaire extremists to the practical dealmakers.
Besides, the inevitable package would please Republicans. The House would pass a conservative bill. The Senate would pass a center-left bill. The compromise between the two would be center-right.
It's pointless to cut a short-term deal if entitlement programs are still structured to bankrupt our children. Republicans and Democrats could make 2013 the year of the truly Grand Bargain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); COST OF LIVING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); DEBT CEILING (68%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); MEDICARE (60%)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (69%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



124 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Make Counteroffer in Fiscal Talks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republican Congressional leaders on Monday countered President Obama's deficit reduction proposal with a plan of their own that is far heavier on spending cuts but embraces $800 billion in new taxes over the next 10 years.
The counteroffer represented an acknowledgment by Republicans that they had to issue their own proposal to head off around $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts next year, a fiscal combination that could send the economy back into recession. They said that their approach was a move toward the center rather than sticking to a position established last year with the passage of the House Republican budget, which included contentious changes to Medicare and Medicaid and deep domestic spending reductions. 
''Mindful of the status quo election and past exchanges on these questions, we recognize it would be counterproductive to publicly or privately propose entitlement reforms that you and the leaders of your party appear unwilling to support in the near term,'' Republican leaders wrote in a letter to Mr. Obama.
The president's offer, forwarded to Congressional leaders by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner last week, stuck almost word for word with the proposal the administration released nearly a year ago. Monday's Republican offer on taxes was close to what Speaker John A. Boehner offered during private talks with Mr. Obama last year.
But it did bring some Republican concessions. Senior Republican leadership aides said the $800 billion in new revenue would come from increases in tax receipts, not from increased economic growth, as Republican leaders have often suggested since the number emerged from the Boehner-Obama talks. But the plan would extend the expiring Bush-era tax cuts for high-income Americans, something the president has said he will not agree to.
The offer itself -- in a letter signed by the Republican House leadership, including Representative Paul D. Ryan, the former vice-presidential nominee -- means that both sides have now put their opening bids on the table. Republican leaders last week loudly rejected the Obama administration's offer and said they would not counter until the president came back with a plan they considered more realistic, not the one Mr. Boehner again dismissed on Monday as a ''La-La-Land offer.''
But facing increasing political pressure to produce an alternative, Republicans acted. ''What we are putting forth is a credible plan that deserves serious consideration from the White House,'' Mr. Boehner said.
The White House was critical of the proposal. ''The Republican letter released today does not meet the test of balance,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the communications director. ''In fact, it actually promises to lower rates for the wealthy and sticks the middle class with the bill. Their plan includes nothing new and provides no details on which deductions they would eliminate, which loopholes they will close or which Medicare savings they would achieve.''
Republicans did produce proposals that could create a political backlash. Of the plan's savings, $200 billion over 10 years would come from changing the way the government calculates inflation, which would slow benefit increases in programs from Medicare to Social Security and raise taxes by slowing the annual rise in tax brackets. Republican aides said that it would be unpopular, but that it was the right response to deficits still topping $1 trillion.
The Republican plan also called for $600 billion in cuts to federal health care programs, including an increase in the eligibility age for Medicare and increased means testing to shrink health benefits for more affluent elderly Americans.
In all, the Republican offer would reduce the deficit more than the president's, which predicted about $1.8 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years. The White House also counted $1 trillion in cuts agreed to last year, savings from ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and lower interest payments on a shrinking debt for a total savings of $4 trillion. Republicans rejected that accounting, but using the same figures their plan would cut $4.6 trillion from future deficits over 10 years.
In an effort to give their proposal added credibility, Republicans said their counteroffer is close to numbers suggested last year by Erskine B. Bowles, the Democratic co-chairman of the president's deficit reduction task force. Mr. Bowles said last week that his numbers, offered in testimony to a special bipartisan Congressional committee on deficit reduction, were not so much a plan as a back-of-the-envelope suggestion to show that a deal could be struck that would be somewhere between Mr. Obama's position and the speaker's during their talks last year.
On Monday, Mr. Bowles sought to distance himself from the Republican plan, saying circumstances had overtaken his numbers. He said that to get a deal today ''it will be necessary for both sides to move beyond their opening positions.''
With just weeks left to find a solution, the parties remain far apart on substance. The White House is insisting that tax increases include higher tax rates on affluent households, a formula Republicans continue to reject.
''The new revenue in the Bowles plan would not be achieved through higher tax rates, which we continue to oppose and will not agree to in order to protect small businesses and our economy,'' the Republican letter said. ''Instead, new revenue would be generated through pro-growth tax reform that closes special-interest loopholes and deductions while lowering rates.''
Republicans offered no specifics on which loopholes or deductions they would close, saying that would be determined next year by the Congressional tax-writing committees.
Cuts to other programs that are not under the purview of annual Congressional spending bills -- so-called mandatory programs -- would total $300 billion over 10 years, according to the Republican plan. And discretionary programs, already cut by nearly $1 trillion through last year's Budget Control Act, would be cut another $300 billion.
Republican leaders called the offer ''exactly the kind of imperfect but fair middle ground that allows us to avert the fiscal cliff without hurting our economy and destroying jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner was among the Republican leaders to offer a fiscal plan on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Comparing Initial Offers: Speaker John A. Boehner put forth a plan to cut deficits by $2.2 trillion over ten years as a counter to President Obama's offer last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MEDICARE (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



125 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2868 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Town Woos Hollywood, but Ends Up With a Bit Part

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Lisa Schwartz contributed research.

 BODY:
PONTIAC, Mich. -- Even the great and powerful Oz could not save the film studio that was supposed to save this town.
The studio, a state-of-the-art facility fit for Hollywood blockbusters, had risen from the ruins of a General Motors complex here. It was the brainchild of a small group of investors with big plans: the studio would attract prestigious filmmakers, and the movie productions would create jobs and pump money into the local economy. A glamorous sheen would rub off on this down-on-its-luck town.
But in Pontiac, happy endings do not usually come Hollywood-style. The tale behind the studio, though, was cinematic in its own right, filled with colorful characters, calls from the White House and a starring role for Michigan's taxpayers. Rounding out the cast was a big-budget Disney movie, ''Oz: The Great and Powerful.''
It all started back in August 2007, when Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm met with Mike Binder, a Michigan-born actor and director who was lamenting the state's lackluster program to award financial aid -- otherwise known as film credits -- to the movie industry. Ms. Granholm, an aspiring actress when she was in her early 20s, became determined to make Michigan competitive, she recalled. 
Eight months later, the capital of the flailing auto industry became the capital of film tax credits. For every dollar spent locally, filmmakers would receive almost half back from Michigan. That sort of money turns heads at even the richest film studios, and word spreads fast. Janet Lockwood, the director of the state's film office, said that a week after the enhanced credits were announced, she was besieged at a movie conference in Santa Monica, Calif., by ''the baby studios to the big guys.''
Hollywood may make movies about the evils of capitalism, but it rarely works without incentives, which are paid for by taxpayers. Nationwide, about $1.5 billion in tax breaks is awarded to the film industry each year, according to a state-by-state survey by The New York Times.
Within two months, 24 movies had signed up to film in Michigan -- up from two the entire year before. The productions estimated that they would spend $195 million filming there, and in return they would be refunded about $70 million in cash.
Before long, residents were rushing out on their lunch breaks to catch a glimpse of celebrities like Drew Barrymore, who was filming her movie ''Whip It'' in Ann Arbor, and Clint Eastwood, who was shooting ''Gran Torino'' in the Detroit area. Even Michael Moore, who was filming a movie about corporate welfare called ''Capitalism: A Love Story,'' sought and received incentives.
A 'No-Brainer' for Michigan
It was a time when most financial news was bad. Housing prices plunged, and thousands of automobiles went unsold. Michigan was facing growing budget shortfalls, and some lawmakers who voted for the film credits soon began questioning whether the state could actually afford them.
In Pontiac, tax revenue plummeted as General Motors pulled out and workers left. Half of downtown was boarded up, and landlords accepted rent checks through slits in doors locked for safety. For some, Hollywood provided distraction and hope.
By 2008, a plan was being hatched for what would become the movie studio in Pontiac. The man behind it, Linden Nelson, was a well-connected local entrepreneur with a charismatic personality. He had made a name for himself by creating the removable key chain for valet parkers in the 1980s. His company later manufactured promotional trinkets for brands like AT&T and Harley-Davidson. In the late 1990s, Mr. Nelson found himself in the headlines when a fire broke out at his office in Beverly Hills, Mich. It was ruled accidental.
Mr. Nelson got the idea for the studio, he said, from his college-age son, who had heard that the Michigan tax credits were the talk of the Cannes Film Festival in France that year. Mr. Nelson soon met an old friend, Ari Emanuel, over coffee in Aspen, Colo., to discuss the idea. Mr. Emanuel was the force behind what would become William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, and his fast-talking, take-no-prisoners style had been immortalized in HBO's ''Entourage.'' His brother Rahm would soon be named the chief of staff to President Obama.
Intrigued, Mr. Emanuel did not take long to sign on. ''I'm, like, blown away by it,'' he told a gathering of the Detroit Regional Chamber of Commerce. ''Not to use an L.A. phrase -- I think this is a no-brainer for the state of Michigan.''
Motown Motion Pictures LLC was incorporated in May 2008, and two more partners came on board. One, John Rakolta Jr., had building expertise as the head of a commercial construction company. The other, A. Alfred Taubman, was a longtime friend of Mr. Nelson and a prominent investor who made billions building shopping malls nationwide.
Mr. Taubman is among the most generous donors to universities and institutions in Michigan and elsewhere. He went to prison for nearly 10 months in 2002 over price-fixing accusations related to Sotheby's auction house, which his company owned. He has maintained that he was innocent.
When Mr. Taubman first visited the vacated General Motors site in Pontiac, he was brought to tears. ''What happened to all the people?'' he said, according to Mr. Nelson, who was at his side. ''Where are the cars? What happened to their families?''
In early 2009, the four investors bought the property from G.M. for ''virtually nothing,'' said Mr. Rakolta. General Motors, which had just received a hefty federal bailout, ''spent more on the carpet than we spent on this building,'' he said.
The investors agreed that they would put in a total of $10 million to $12 million of their own money, according to the studio's chief financial officer. They would pay for the rest -- $70 million or so -- using borrowed money and state and federal incentives. ''Michigan's current tax incentive program appears to be the largest competitive advantage for the company,'' one studio document said.
Ms. Lockwood, the film commissioner at the time, said she visited Mr. Taubman's office in early 2009. Over lunch served by a butler, Mr. Taubman filled her in on the plan. ''He believed that there was money to be made,'' she recalled.
A Town on the Ropes
In public, the investors extolled the studio as an altruistic effort on behalf of Pontiac. ''I go into things to make money, but on this, I don't really care,'' Mr. Taubman told The Detroit Free Press. ''I just want to help create jobs, and this can create 3,600 jobs.''
Pontiac desperately needed them. In March of that year, roughly one of every two residents was without work, according to federal data. Food pantries had record requests. Pontiac was consistently listed among the top 10 most dangerous cities by the F.B.I. The city had made national news when a group of teenagers approached homeless people on the street and beat them to death.
Ms. Granholm declared the city in a financial crisis in February 2009 and appointed an emergency manager, Fred Leeb. The city's budget was $54 million a year, but it was overspending by an estimated $7 million to $12 million. Pontiac was also still weighted down by old incentives it had given to businesses like G.M.
The movie studio was an added challenge, since it was seeking financial incentives from the city -- not to mention from other branches of the government. It won redevelopment tax credits from the federal government and separate aid from the state that included incentives for technology companies that hire residents.
Job creation became a point of contention with beleaguered Pontiac, which was being asked to waive virtually all property taxes for the studio. The investors claimed that thousands of people would be employed, but Mr. Leeb said that when he asked for job numbers to be written into the contract, the investors refused. ''We started seeing some backpedaling,'' said Mr. Leeb, who added that the negotiations featured ''knock-down, drag-out fights.''
Mr. Nelson said he did not recall that request, but added that his company could not have guaranteed jobs anyway, since they were mainly supposed to be created by filmmakers renting out the studio.
Under pressure from the governor's office, Mr. Leeb said he had little choice but to approve the investors' requests.
Ms. Granholm announced the project in her 2009 State of the State address, saying she thought the industry would create a flood of new jobs. ''It was very exciting,'' recalled Ms. Granholm, a Democrat. ''A classic transformation, the phoenix rising from the ashes. This plant in Pontiac -- it was a really great moment for a community that really wanted and needed hope.''
That summer, as the studio moved forward, Mr. Nelson was in local headlines for a second fire, this one at his 23,000-square-foot lakefront home in Bloomfield Hills. The fire extensively damaged the home, and its cause was not determined. Mr. Nelson declined to discuss it.
Not long after, he and the other studio investors hit a major hurdle. They would be borrowing around $18 million in municipal bonds, but they needed someone to back them.
Over the objections of some local officials, the state agreed to use the state workers' pension funds to guarantee the bonds. If the investors failed to pay, the retirees would be on the hook.
At the time of the deal, the governor was speaking regularly with Mr. Obama, who was negotiating the General Motors bailout. Edward B. Montgomery, who was leading the White House's efforts on communities and workers affected by the automaker's bankruptcy, was engaged on the studio plans.
Mr. Montgomery said in an interview that he had expressed support for the studio and other projects that he believed would help diversify Michigan's economy. He said the studio's investors received assistance from the Treasury Department to qualify for a federal tax credit program. Mr. Montgomery said he was unaware of the bond guarantee involving the state pension fund.
On July 27, 2010, the governor and other officials gathered for the studio's groundbreaking. Also on hand were Hollywood players like Mr. Binder, a creator of HBO's ''The Mind of the Married Man,'' who had been instrumental in persuading the governor to expand the film subsidies.
Mr. Nelson, the studio's main impresario, talked up the job numbers on local radio that day and said the incentives were necessary. ''It's a very competitive landscape out there,'' he said. ''There are very, very competitive rebates going on with other states. People don't realize this, but 40 states have some kind of rebate or another in this industry. It's an industry that's fought after.''
Even as Michigan celebrated the studio, the Motion Picture Association of America was facing criticism of the use of film credits in a report by a Washington tax research group. The film association estimated that the industry employs just over two million people and supports 115,000 businesses. The report, conducted by the nonprofit Tax Foundation, which opposes film incentives, said that states justified them using ''fanciful estimates of economic activity.''
The Pontiac studio was complete by the summer of 2011. Its first big production moved in after being awarded about $40 million from the state -- the largest single movie payout yet. The Disney ''Oz'' film was being directed by Sam Raimi, a Michigan native who made the recent ''Spider-Man'' movies.
Over the coming months, the studio's seven stages were filled with a yellow brick road and a haunted forest. The designers planted live grass and built a huge waterfall and pond where James Franco, the star of the film, could land in a hot-air balloon. Perhaps the most elaborate set was the courtyard around the good witch Glinda's castle, which took 75,000 hours of work to build and used $9 million worth of wood, according to Mr. Nelson.
Sahir Rashid, a 35-year-old production assistant and Detroit resident, said that walking into the studio had been overwhelming. It was his first time on a soundstage, and he was thankful that the state's movie boom allowed him to give up construction work. ''For me, the films saved my life,'' he said. ''It's not a dead-end job. It's actually a career.''
As for the crew and actors, ''the majority of them I think were from L.A.,'' said London Moore, a local actress. Ms. Moore was the body double for Michelle Williams, who was playing Glinda. ''I went into this thinking these people were probably going to be stuck up, but they welcomed me with open arms. They are like a family to me.''
Film Jobs Prove Scarce
The studio had created only 200 positions by the summer of 2011, according to correspondence between the company and local officials. And when temporary construction workers were excluded from the tally, Pontiac's records show, the studio reported only two employees in 2010 and 12 the next year. The studio's chief financial officer said it had not been able to cash in on $110 million in tax credits that were contingent on creating jobs. But the studio did cash in on other credits, including $14 million for a ''Film and Digital Media Infrastructure Investment Tax Credit,'' he said.
As the ''Oz'' shoot was under way, Pontiac moved on to its third emergency manager, Louis Schimmel, and he was not a fan of incentives. A former municipal bond analyst, Mr. Schimmel spent decades warning Michigan towns against trading tax revenues for jobs. ''I'm just about the biggest critic of these programs, because giving away the taxes of the city is so detrimental,'' he said. ''The money is needed for police, fire and trash pickup.''
Mr. Schimmel said Disney had offered to prepay its workers' personal income tax to the city, but Pontiac declined. The city later had problems collecting some of the taxes because Disney operated through a separate business entity that was difficult to track down, he said.
''This is a glamorous industry if you want to talk about Hollywood, but it's not very glamorous for the municipality that wants to collect something,'' Mr. Schimmel said. Pontiac, he said, was outgunned.
Disney declined to comment. Mr. Nelson said the studio and Disney were responsive to the city.
Mr. Schimmel was not alone in his opposition to incentives. Michigan elected a new governor in 2010, Rick Snyder, a Republican who believed that it made better sense to lower taxes for all businesses. The governor's budget director, John Nixon, said in an interview, ''States harm themselves by competing on tax credits.'' The governor quickly began reining in the program.
Almost immediately, filmmakers pulled out of Michigan. The change hit hard at ''Hollywood-land in Pontiac,'' as Mr. Nelson sometimes refers to his studio, now called Michigan Motion Picture Studios. He said the makers of ''Iron Man 3'' had been considering filming there but opted for North Carolina after Mr. Snyder slashed incentives.
When the bill for the studio's bond interest came due in February this year, it paid only a portion, $210,000. The state pension fund had to pick up the remaining $420,000. Mr. Nelson said he and his partners would have made the payment if the state had not changed the tax credit program. ''No one would have missed a bond payment,'' he said. ''No one would have missed anything.''
The situation is galling to even longtime government officials, who over the years have seen plenty of economic development deals fail. ''Taubman could write the whole check for that himself,'' said Doug Smith, an official at the state's economic development agency. The state pension fund may ''end up owning these studios,'' he said.
One of the development agency's board members is Mr. Rakolta, the construction executive who invested in the Pontiac studio. He and Mr. Nelson said in separate interviews that they had never considered personally paying for the bond interest. A deal is a deal, they said, and the state agreed to cover the bond. The studio's chief financial officer said the investors already stood to lose twice as much as they originally intended to invest.
A spokesman for Mr. Emanuel said he was not willing to discuss the situation on the record. A spokesman for Mr. Taubman said he was unavailable.
In August, the studio defaulted on the entire $630,000 payment on the bond, despite a decision by Mr. Snyder to temporarily allocate some film incentives.
The investors are lobbying state lawmakers to put more money into the tax credits and have formed a political action committee. Donating to the PAC are the four investors; Mr. Emanuel's agency, William Morris Endeavor; and the Teamsters union. To rally public support, the studio offers public tours. ''Please don't hesitate to contact your state representative,'' Mr. Nelson tells visitors. ''Tell them you've been here, you believe in it, so please appropriate enough money so it will work.''
Mr. Nelson said that if the state did not improve the incentives, the Pontiac studio would probably shut down. For now, the soundstages are empty. Filming wrapped up last month on a Warner Brothers movie called ''Black Sky.'' It is about a town ravaged by deadly tornadoes.
United States of Subsidies: This is the third and final article in a series examining business incentives and their impact on jobs and local economies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A movie studio was built amid the remains of a G.M. plant. (A1)
REBUILDING ON RUINS: The remains of a General Motors plant in Pontiac, Mich. Officials agreed to generous tax incentives for a film studio that set up in another part of the complex. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HOPE FOR PONTIAC: Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan at a groundbreaking for the studio in 2010. Also there were two of the investors, Linden Nelson and A. Alfred Taubman, seated to the right of the governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE JUAREZ/OAKLAND PRESS)
 INDUSTRY GET-TOGETHER: In May, the new studio was the setting for an event that drew actors, technicians, film vendors and politicians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JENNIFER GRANHOLM (72%); CLINT EASTWOOD (58%); DREW BARRYMORE (58%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



126 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Netanyahu's Strategic Mistake

 BODY:
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel seems determined to escalate a crisis by retaliating against the Palestinians after the United Nations General Assembly voted to elevate Palestine to observer state status. 
Instead of looking for ways to halt a downward spiral, Mr. Netanyahu on Monday defiantly dug in on his plans to build 3,000 more housing units in contested areas east of Jerusalem and in the West Bank, and to continue planning a development in the most contentious area known as E1.
Israel also announced that it was withholding $100 million in tax revenues that it has collected from the Palestinian Authority, which is financially strapped. The moves would impose devastating penalties on the only officially recognized representative of the Palestinian people and could doom the chances for a two-state solution because building in the E1 area would split the northern and southern parts of the West Bank. Such measures are puzzling after Israel disparaged the United Nations vote as insignificant.
Some American lawmakers are also in a vengeful mood, threatening to close the Palestine Liberation Organization's office in Washington, deprive the Palestinians of American aid and withhold financing from United Nations affiliates that accept the Palestinians as members. These actions would only harm Israel and further undermine America's ability to play a credible mediator in any peace effort.
Mr. Netanyahu's punitive, shortsighted moves threaten to crush the Palestinian Authority, and its president, Mahmoud Abbas, who has recognized Israel's right to exist and represents the only credible peace negotiator.
Expanding West Bank settlements makes it nearly impossible to restart peace negotiations. Worse, it is a terrible distraction from the Iranian nuclear issue, which Mr. Netanyahu considers the main strategic threat to Israel. His actions have unwisely alienated the European Union, which has been crucial to pressuring Iran to abandon its nuclear program. Britain, France, Spain, Sweden and Denmark on Monday summoned the Israeli ambassadors in their capitals to protest Israel's settlement plans.
The plan to develop E1 is particularly disturbing because the Obama administration, like others before it, have considered expansion there fatal to a two-state solution. Mr. Netanyahu is up for re-election in January, so he may be driven by his political needs. But that is no excuse.
The administration firmly condemned the moves, but Mr. Obama needs develop a new strategy for reviving peace talks, even though many despair of any success. He can start by urging Mr. Netanyahu to drop the settlement plans and Mr. Abbas to forgo applying for Palestinian membership in United Nations affiliates or trying to bring cases against Israel in the International Criminal Court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



127 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Group To Offer Tax Plan With Huge Payoff

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democratic luminaries with ties to the Obama and Clinton administrations, including two former Treasury secretaries and two former White House chiefs of staff, on Tuesday will enter the tax debate with an overhaul plan that would raise an additional $1.8 trillion in the first decade.
That is $200 billion more than President Obama has proposed and $1 trillion more than Republicans in Congress support. It would mostly result from a simplification of the tax code that produces higher taxes from the wealthy, but would also involve higher taxes on cigarettes, alcoholic beverages and Internet gambling that would hit people of all incomes. 
''This is from the team that brought you the last good economy,'' said John D. Podesta, a former chief of staff for President Bill Clinton, in reference to the Clinton-era pedigrees of many of the plan's sponsors. The recommendations are likely to influence Democrats in the White House and Congress in budget negotiations now and in the coming year.
Other authors include Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, both former Treasury secretaries to Mr. Clinton; Mr. Summers was Mr. Obama's first National Economic Council director. Others are William M. Daley, Mr. Obama's previous chief of staff; the investment bankers Roger C. Altman, a former deputy Treasury secretary, and Antonio F. Weiss; Leslie B. Samuels, a former assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy; and Neera Tanden, a former Clinton and Obama aide who heads the Center for American Progress, the left-leaning research organization that produced the report.
Like Mr. Obama, the group calls for letting the top marginal income-tax rate return to the Clinton-era 39.6 percent, as scheduled on Dec. 31, while keeping other rates at the lower Bush-era levels. But the higher rate would apply on income for individuals and couples of $422,000 and up; Mr. Obama would have the thresholds at $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for couples.
The Democratic group also would limit deductions for high-income taxpayers, but not by as much as the Simpson-Bowles fiscal plan that Republicans approvingly cite, and all new revenue would go to debt reduction instead of using some for lower tax rates as Republicans demand.
The plan would set the top tax rate for capital gains, now 15 percent, at 28 percent, the level in place from the Reagan administration through the 1990s. Dividends, also currently taxed at a maximum rate of 15 percent, would be taxed as ordinary income as they had been historically.
By reducing tax advantages for high-income taxpayers, the plan would allow for repeal of the alternative minimum tax and the so-called PEP and Pease limits on personal exemptions and deductions -- complicated tax measures that were intended to ensure that wealthy taxpayers could not claim so many breaks that they avoided taxes.
The plan would also repeal the ''carried interest'' break that permits investment fund managers to have their income taxed at the lower capital gains rate instead of as ordinary income. It was the carried-interest rate primarily that allowed Mitt Romney to pay an effective tax rate as low as 14 percent.
To further tilt the code in a progressive direction, the group calls for replacing popular itemized deductions for mortgage insurance and other items with an 18 percent credit so that the benefit is the same for middle-income and high-income taxpayers. Currently deductions provide significantly greater benefits to taxpayers paying the top marginal rates. The deduction for charitable giving, however, would be as high as 28 percent.
On average, households with less than $100,000 in annual income would see no tax increase, and those with from $100,000 to $500,000 would see small increases, the group said. Taxpayers with $1 million or more would see a 5 percent increase from their current tax liability on average.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX REFORM (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); GAMING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%); JOHN PODESTA (58%); ROGER ALTMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



128 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Don't Mention The Decadence

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Defending the moral as well as the practical case for natalism. 

 BODY:
Critics of my Sunday column on America's sagging birthrate fell into two camps. The first group denied that sub-replacement fertility is a socioeconomic problem at all, which is an argument that I may try to take up a later date. (For now, Megan McArdle's extended post on the subject deserves your attention.) The second group agreed with Matt Yglesias, who praised my focus on the levers that policymakers could use to make life easier for would-be parents while rolling his eyes at my concluding paragraph's suggestion that cultural decadence as well as economic incentives might have something to do with why so many rich societies aren't reproducing themselves. Sighed Yglesias, speaking for many liberal readers: "It'd be a much better country if social conservatives would stop writing things like that second paragraph [on decadence]" and just focused on family-friendly policy instead.
In general, I agree that "more policy, fewer jeremiads" is good advice for social conservatives. But you can't write honestly about the policy component of these issues without recognizing the existence of cultural forces larger than the cost of higher education or the incentive structures created by the tax code. 
This means acknowledging, in this case, that while the burdens on modern parents are real and considerable and in certain ways increasing, people in developed societies enjoy a standard of living unprecedented in human history, and the sacrifices required of would-be parents in America or South Korea or Germany do not undo their immense material advantages over their parents and grandparents and great-great grandparents going back millennia upon millennia. Once you've acknowledged that (fairly obvious) point, then you're acknowledging that people in rich countries who forgo or limit their childrearing aren't all just responding in inevitable ways "to the situation that actually exists," as Yglesias puts it later in his post. Some are, yes. But others - many millions of others, in Europe and North America and Asia - are actively creating their own situations, and deciding that children (or more than one child, or more than two) don't fit with their ambitions or desires or preferred consumption patterns.
Now on a case by case basis, those kind of decisions can be defensible, admirable, necessary, wise. Children are not the only good in life, and it's a sign of civilization progress, almost by definition, when adults have a wider range of potential identities than mother and father available to them, and a wider range of opportunities to put their gifts to use. Almost everyone in the modern world makes the decision to place some limits on their fertility: Even among traditionalist Catholics and conservative evangelicals and Mormons, families with five or six or seven children are much more common than Michelle Duggar/Maria Theresa-style maximum fertility. (The "planning" in Natural Family Planning is there for a reason.) Up to a point, the path from poverty to plenty - from Afghanistan to America, if you will - inevitably involves smaller families. Up to a point, declining birthrates correlate with trends in health and wealth and female equality that nobody wants to see reversed.
Up to a point. But the modern path has many possible endpoints, and it seems like an abdication of moral judgment to just practice determinism and assert that wherever a given developed country's birthrate ends up - slightly above replacement level, slightly below, or in the depths plumbed by countries like Japan - must represent the best of all possible worlds.
After all, if children are not the only good in human life, they do seem like a fairly important one, no? Maybe even, dare one say, an essential one, at least in some quantity, if the pursuit of the wider array of human goods is to continue beyond our own life cycle? Or to put it another way, if we have moral obligations to future, as-yet-unborn generations, as almost everyone seems to agree, surely those duties have to include some obligation for somebody to bring those generations into existence in the first place - to imitate the sacrifices that our parents made, and give another generation the chances that we've had? And if that basic obligation exists in some form, then surely there comes a point when a culture in which it's crowded out by other goals, other pursuits and yes, other pleasures can be aptly described as ... what's the word I'm looking for ... decadent?
If you are a true misanthrope, a radical environmentalist, or a partisan of voluntary human extinction, then of course you can feel free to answer "no" to these questions. But readers who consider themselves humanists should consider: Is there any population better situated to bestow fulfilling, flourishing, opportunity-rich lives on future generations than the inhabitants of rich democracies? Yes, those opportunities can be bestowed in part through generous immigration policies, but why not go for the direct path as well as the bank-shot? (Especially since historically speaking, shrinking, aging societies tend to have more trouble assimilating large immigrant inflows than countries like, well, the relatively fecund United States.) Is replacement-level fertility really so much to ask, morally speaking, of people graced with wealth and entertainments and diversions beyond the dreams of any previous generation? If conspicuous consumption is morally dubious when it substitutes for sacrifices on behalf of strangers, as most good progressives seem to think, why isn't it morally dubious when it substitutes for the more intimate form of sacrifice that made all of our lives possible in the first place?
Likewise for readers who regard any talk about the moral weight of reproductive choices as a subtle attempt to reimpose the patriarchy: Can it really be that having achieved so much independence and autonomy and professional success, today's Western women have no moral interest in seeing that as many women are born into the possibility of similar opportunities tomorrow? Is the feminist revolution such a fragile thing that it requires outright population decline to fulfill its goals, and is female advancement really incompatible with the goal of a modestly above-replacement birthrate? Indeed, isn't it just possible that a modern culture that celebrated the moral component of childrearing more fully would end up serving certain feminist ends, rather than undermining them - by making public policy more friendly to work-life balance, by putting more cultural pressure on men to be involved fathers rather than slackers and deadbeat dads, and so on?
Okay, enough rhetorical questions. It's the nature of social conservatives to be cranky about contemporary trends, often to a fault. But it's also the nature of decadent societies to deny that the category of "decadence" exists. And what Yglesias calls nuttiness still looks like moral common sense to me - a view of intergenerational obligation that human flourishing depends on, and whose disappearance threatens to sacrifice essential goods and relationships on the altar of more transient forms of satisfaction.

        
Can We Be Sweden?
        
Does Mormonism Have a Marriage Problem?
        
Philosophers Versus Breeders
        
Straussian Social Conservatives?
        
Catholics, Conscience and Contraception

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (85%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); PARENTING (76%); GRANDPARENTS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); CONSUMPTION (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (51%); TAX LAW (51%) Culture Wars; demographics; Europe; Japan; modernity; Religion; Sex and Marriage; the family

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



129 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: Coffee drinkers, rejoice: evidence of caffeine's health benefits seems to be mounting. Especially in regard to longevity and what researchers describe as "monotonous highway driving." -- Julia Moskin
Architizer: If you like your gingerbread houses to be timely and topical, boy, does the Parker Meridien have one for you: a cookies-and-icing depiction of the Midtown crane collapse. -- Pete Wells
The Daily News: Boys want to have fun with Easy Bake Ovens, too. So says a New Jersey girl who is gathering names on a petition through Change.org to force the toymaker Hasbro to include boys in its Easy Bake Oven ads for the first time, so that boys like her 4-year-old brother will know they, too, can play at baking. --Maria Newman 
Food52: Gremolata madness. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Eater: The Texas-based Alamo Drafthouse chain, where moviegoers can eat and drink at their seats, will open a seven-screen location in Downtown Brooklyn in 2015 in the City Point development. The chain has plans to open three New York locations. -- Robert Simonson
Slate: Is survivalism still nutty if it can come up with a cute brand name and a cooking show? The company Shelf Reliance is making palatable M.R.E.'s and teaching pioneer skills on its happy-talking TV program "THRIVE Live." -- Patrick Farrell
The Wall Street Journal: Diminutive drinks - 2- to 4-ounce cocktails, instead of the standard 8 to 10 ounces - are the next big thing. - Glenn Collins 
: Last call at the Lenox Lounge. The landmark Harlem jazz club that featured Billie Holiday, Miles Davis and John Coltrane is closing its doors at the end of the year. (Via .) -- Maria Newman 
LA Weekly: Has it really taken America this long to dream up chocolate dessert nachos? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Telegraph: Images of the world's most innovatively designed bars and restaurants, from the new book "Architecture Now! Eat Shop Drink,'' from Taschen. Room in which I would most like to eat a meal: Witteveen Brasserie in Amsterdam. Room in which I would least like to have a cocktail: Tazmania Ballroom in Hong Kong. -- Julia Moskin
: You know a food craze has run its course when it spawns a goofy, inedible dessert. As in, bacon Jell-O. - Patrick Farrell
: Twinkies Aftermath: if you could bring back any guilty food pleasure from oblivion, what would it be? -- Maria Newman
: What happens to your brain on coffee when you've avoided it for most of your life? Kevin Warwick takes the muddy plunge. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Mixellany: The noted cocktail writer Gaz Regan has written an entire book devoted to the Negroni. The cover of the book, which will be released this winter, is red, like the Campari in the cocktail. --Robert Simonson
Afar: If you believe in reincarnation, here is something to aspire to: maybe in your next life you could come back as the sommelier Spencer Cruse as he nibbles and sips his way through Sicily. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Eater San Francisco: A San Francisco-based cocktail writer talks about the differences between the Bay Area and New York cocktail scenes, among many other things. -- Robert Simonson
Time Out New York: Hey, what's that undercurrent of flavor coursing through these new winter cocktails? Nuts. -- Jeff Gordinier 
NPR: Children should be discouraged from watching this video showing what Maine scientists say is the first direct evidence in the wild of lobsters practicing cannibalism on lobsters (a behavior occasionally observed in lobster tanks). The summer lobster glut that caused a plummeting fishermen's price war also motivated adult lobsters to eat juveniles. - Glenn Collins 
Tasting Table: The whole elevated-Jewish-deli thing seems to be hitting our nation's capital, too. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Here's "Talking Back to the Mad World," a spirited, stress-alleviating Sarah C. Harwell poem about letting a garden go fallow. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Economist: Say it ain't so: veggie burgers, tofu and alfalfa have arrived in the least vegan place on earth: meat-mad Mongolia. - Glenn Collins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); COFFEE (78%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); WRITERS (65%); JAZZ & BLUES (63%); CLOSINGS (62%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



130 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Cliff Ahead: Cue the Extremists

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Republican extremists make John Boehner look fiscally courageous. 

 BODY:
Distinguishing the extreme right wing from the Republican Party's center can sometimes be difficult, but today the rejectionist front made the job a little easier by blasting Speaker John Boehner's offer in the fiscal talks. 
It's an "$800 billion tax hike," said Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina. It's "categorical, pre-emptive capitulation," said the Heritage Foundation. It "leaves conservatives wanting," said Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, the Tea Party spending group set up by the Koch brothers.
My immediate reaction was: wait, are they talking about the same offer Mr. Boehner and the House leadership made to President Obama on Monday afternoon? Because that letter,thin and bereft of details,was anything but a cave-in to the forces of socialism. It is based on the same fantasy that helped defeat Mitt Romney, claiming the country can afford to lower tax rates by getting rid of unspecified tax deductions. It cuts $1.2 trillion in spending over a decade, half of which would come from Medicare, Medicaid and other health programs, hurting low-income people just to preserve low tax rates for the rich. And it allows Mr. Boehner to reuse the blunt cudgel of the debt ceiling to force even more cuts on a regular basis.

Only if the offer is seen from the narrowest sectarian viewpoint - that it dares to raise revenue by ending those tax deductions - could it be seen as any kind of concession. Though Mr. Boehner adamantly states he opposes raising tax rates, which is the essential element for Mr. Obama, his willingness to bring in additional revenue violates the economic fundamentalism of the party's far right.
It's not clear whether Mr. Boehner is annoyed by this criticism, but in fact the conservatives are doing him a favor. For weeks, he has insisted that by succumbing to reality and allowing revenues to be part of a fiscal deal, he is taking a huge risk with his party and needs a great deal of budget-cutting in return. That position has seemed increasingly dubious as one Republican after another acknowledged that Mr. Obama won the election and thus taxes need to go up.
But now, right on cue, the extremists have weighed in to make Mr. Boehner's fiscal stubbornness look downright courageous. The only problem for Mr. Boehner is that they aren't really acting strategically; they actually believe this stuff.

        
Meanwhile, on Capitol Hill, Republicans Stay on Message
        
Republicans Would Rather Laugh Than Bargain
        
Opinion Report: Israel's Aggressive Misstep
        
Boehner's Rearguard Guerrilla Action
        
A First Look at Second Term Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEBT CEILING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); MEDICAID (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); MEDICARE (66%); RELIGION (65%) Federal Taxes; John Boehner; Republican Party; Boehner, John A; Federal Taxes (US); House of Representatives

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%) House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIM DEMINT (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



131 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Carpetbagger)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Scrutinizing What's on the Documentary Shortlist (and What's Not)

BYLINE: MELENA RYZIK


HIGHLIGHT: After the Academy's documentary branch revamped eligibility rules, the shortlist for the nominations has some notable omissions, though it includes several frontrunners as well. 

 BODY:
After a revamped process that left some members confounded and others crying foul, the Academy announced this season's shortlist of 15 documentaries on Monday, with 5 eventually to be chosen as Oscar nominees. 
The list includes several high-profile or expected titles, like "Searching for Sugar Man," "Ai Wei Wei: Never Sorry," "Bully" and "How to Survive a Plague," which also earned a top prize from the New York Film Critics Circle on Monday. But the list also had notable omissions, including "Jiro Dreams of Sushi," the popular and mouth-watering story of a sushi chef; "West of Memphis," a film that had the backing of Peter Jackson, about the cause célèbre of the West Memphis 3; "The Central Park Five," from Ken Burns, Sarah Burns and David McMahon; and "The Queen of Versailles," Lauren Greenfield's film about a super-wealthy couple who lose their economic footing. 
"The Central Park Five" was even given special attention in a letter the Academy sent to members to help guide them through the selections, as our colleague Dave Itzkoff reported. (The Academy also allowed an internal bulletin board for members to recommend films to their friends.) 
Two of the overlooked films were also subject of legal wrangling: materials and interviews from "The Central Park Five," about the five men wrongly convicted in the Central Park jogger rape case, were subpoenaed by lawyers for the City of New York. And Ms. Greenfield was sued, by one of the subjects of "Queen of Versailles," just before the film's big-ticket premiere at the Sundance Film Festival this year.
 Still, Sundance was a proving ground for many of this year's Oscar-track documentaries like "Searching for Sugar Man," a frontrunner released by Sony Pictures Classics. And the list also resulted in a good showing for Kickstarter, which helped finance several of the films, including "Ai Wei Wei," "Detropia" and "The Waiting Room." 
The broadening field for documentaries - technologically easier to produce now than ever - is part of the reason that documentary branch members, led by their president, Michael Moore, chose to reconfigure the rules about what can be nominated for an Academy Award. Whether they succeeded may be determined on Jan. 10, when the nominations are announced, or next season, when the new batch of hopefuls -- the first made after the new procedures stick -- emerges. 

        
Marina Abramovic, Fan of the Oscars and the Oscar Bathrooms
        
2012 Oscars Live Blog
        
The Nun and the Rock Star
        
Get Ready for the Red Carpet
        
Nominees and, Even Better, Now Members of Diddy's Entourage

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (91%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (64%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); FESTIVALS (63%); SUBPOENAS (50%) Academy Awards (Oscars); Documentary Films and Programs; Academy Awards

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); UTAH, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



132 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Ryan and Rubio Say Republicans Must Work on Aiding Middle Class

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Speeches at a tribute dinner to the late Jack Kemp offer Republicans a preview of two potential presidential candidates for 2016. 

 BODY:
A month after Republicans lost their bid for the White House, a pair of party leaders said Tuesday that a greater emphasis should be placed on improving the lives of the middle class if Republicans hoped to expand their appeal and confront the nation's changing demographics.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the former vice-presidential candidate, declared: "The Republican Party can't make excuses." Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said the party should pursue policies aimed at allowing "the poor to rise into the middle class - not by making the rich people poorer, but by making poor people richer." 
The two rising Republicans - Mr. Ryan, 42, and Mr. Rubio, 41 - delivered speeches in Washington at a tribute dinner to Jack Kemp, the Republican congressman and the party's 1996 vice-presidential nominee, who died in 2009. It was the first address Mr. Ryan has given since he and Mitt Romney were defeated on Nov. 6.
While Mr. Ryan said that he was "proud" of Mr. Romney, he offered veiled criticism of a comment that inflicted political deep damage on the Republican ticket when Mr. Romney was secretly recorded saying that 47 percent of Americans saw themselves as victims dependent on the government.
"Both parties tend to divide Americans into 'our voters' and 'their voters,' " Mr. Ryan said. "Let's be really clear: Republicans must steer far clear of that trap. We must speak to the aspirations and anxieties of every American."
Mr. Rubio echoed the sentiment and warned of a "growing opportunity gap" among Americans. He said controlling the nation's rising debt burden and overhauling the tax code were critical steps, but only the beginning of what needed to be accomplished in Congress. He called for a sweeping overhaul of the education system.
"We are trying to prepare 21st-century students using a 20th-century model," Mr. Rubio said. "Now is the time to be creative, innovating and daring in reforming the way we provide our people the skills they need to make it to the middle class."
The speeches on Tuesday evening offered Republicans an early preview of two potential candidates in the 2016 presidential election - and themes that are likely to be at the heart of the agenda as the party works to rebuild. 
In his speech, Mr. Ryan directly acknowledged his defeat, saying, "Losing is part of politics, and it can often prepare the way for greater victories."
He welcomed Mr. Rubio to the dinner with an oblique reference to the two states that traditionally open the race to the White House, saying, "Know any good diners in Iowa or New Hampshire?" (When Mr. Rubio took the stage, he thanked Mr. Ryan for the invitation, but quipped, "I will not stand by and let the people of South Carolina be ignored.")
Mr. Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee who is deeply involved in the contentious fiscal talks under way in Washington, did not wade into specific details of the negotiations. He congratulated President Obama for his victory but said both parties had a burden to work together.
"At a time of great consequence, the American people have again chosen divided government and it's up to us to make this divided government work," Mr. Ryan said. "We've got to set aside partisan considerations in favor of one overriding concern: How can we work together to repair the economy? How can we provide real security and upward mobility for all Americans - especially those in need?"
Mr. Rubio, who has carefully nurtured his national profile since being elected in 2010, made only a passing reference to one of the critical issues facing the Republican Party: overhauling the nation's immigration laws. But his speech was laced with anecdotes about his personal journey and his rise to the Senate from two working-class, Cuba-born parents.
In closing, he relayed a story about walking into a hotel in New York after he delivered his keynote speech at the Republican National Convention in August. He said that three employees from the catering department - dressed in their uniforms - presented him with a name tag that said, "Rubio, Banquet Bartender."
"That moment reminded me that there are millions of Mario Rubios all across America today," Mr. Rubio said, holding the gold name tag in the air as the crowd applauded. "They aren't looking for a handout. They just want a job that provides for their families." 

        
Ryan Cites Policy Kinship With Bill Clinton
        
Christie a Favored Vice-Presidential Pick, Polls Find
        
The 'Ryan Effect' Proves Limited in Wisconsin
        
Republicans Seize On Biden's 'Middle Class' Remark
        
Column on Romney-Ryan Meant as Satire Is Taken as Fact

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); TAX REFORM (63%); TAX LAW (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%) Rubio, Marco; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Presidential Election of 2016; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); MARCO RUBIO (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Rubio, Marco; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



133 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2294 words

HEADLINE: Buffett on the State of Wall Street

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett criticized the trading culture of Wall Street. | A venture capitalist is betting he will find the next Mark Zuckerberg in China. | The S.E.C. charged the Chinese affiliates of five big accounting firms with violating securities laws. | Hollywood films about the evils of capitalism are often financed with tax incentives. 

 BODY:
 BUFFETT LAMENTS THE STATE OF THE STREET | Warren E. Buffett, the Berkshire Hathaway chief, criticized the trading culture of Wall Street, which he says offers incentives to generate fees and fast profits. Over lunch with Andrew Ross Sorkin, he said he was skeptical of the modern-day hedge fund industry and added that his preferred strategy was still to buy and hold, Mr. Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
It concerned him, for instance, that he was able to buy the equivalent of 10 percent of I.B.M. in six to eight months because of the market's liquidity. "The idea that people look at their holdings in such a way that that kind of volume exists means that to a great extent, it's a casino game," said Mr. Buffett, who was in town to discuss a new book about his career, "Tap Dancing to Work," by Carol Loomis of Fortune magazine.
While Mr. Buffett spoke well of the old-school hedge fund manager Julian Robertson, he was "less enamored" of the next generation of investors, Mr. Sorkin writes. When asked if he admired any private equity investors, Mr. Buffett replied, "No." He struggled to name any hedge fund managers he followed, before mentioning Seth Klarman of the Baupost Group. 
"They're not as good as the old ones generally," Mr. Buffett said. "The field has gotten swamped, so there's so much money playing and people have been able to raise money by just saying 'hedge fund.'"
 SEARCHING FOR TECH TALENT IN CHINA | Stephen Bell, a venture capitalist who co-founded Trilogy VC, is betting he will find the next Mark Zuckerberg in China. He tours the country's top universities in search of fledgling entrepreneurs, offering financing to students "who often have just a kernel of an idea," Ron Gluckman reports in DealBook. Mr. Bell has more than $2 million a year to invest, with plans to offer financing to 15 to 30 start-ups, DealBook says. It is a highly unusual strategy in China, especially as some fear the market may be overheated. But Mr. Bell says, "I only need to hit one home run among a hundred, and I'm doing fine."
S.E.C. RAISES CONCERNS WITH AUDITS IN CHINA | The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has been broadly investigating Chinese companies that have gone public in the United States, charged the Chinese affiliates of five big accounting firms with violating securities laws, saying they refused to turn over documents related to several companies based in China, Edward Wyatt reports for DealBook. "As part of the administrative proceedings, the accounting firms could face sanctions. Under the law, the government could prohibit them from practicing before the S.E.C., on a temporary or permanent basis. In essence, that means their audits of publicly traded companies would not satisfy securities laws." The regulator's attack on China's auditors is fair, but enforcing it could lead to a chaotic wave of delistings from American markets, John Foley writes in Reuters Breakingviews.
THE MONEY BEHIND 'WALL STREET' | Hollywood has honed the character of the financial villain over the years, with movies like Oliver Stone's "Wall Street." But the film industry "has come to use plenty of its own Wall Street-style financial engineering, relying on tax credits and incentives to make money," Louise Story reports in The New York Times. Films like "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps" and "Margin Call" take advantage of tax breaks from local governments, which compete to attract the filmmakers. "Hollywood may make movies about the evils of capitalism, but it rarely works without incentives, which are paid for by taxpayers," Ms. Story reports.
Nationwide, the film industry draws about $1.5 billion in tax breaks each year, The Times reports. But it is not always clear that these incentives benefit the local economies. "I'd like for it to be true that the incentive is good for New York, too, and everyone is benefiting," said Michael Benaroya, a film investor who financed "Margin Call." "But at the end of the day, if there's an incentive, it's good for me."
ON THE AGENDA | Bloomberg TV will air an interview with President Obama on the fiscal situation at 12:30 p.m. The Goldman Sachs Financial Services conference kicks off in Manhattan. Tuesday's speakers include Gregory J. Fleming, president of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, at 8:10 a.m.; Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, at 9:30 a.m.; and Douglas Braunstein, JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer, at 12:25 p.m. The Economic Studies program at Brookings holds a conference to "review the social purposes of finance" and consider proposals for change. Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve Board governor, is giving the keynote address at 10:45 a.m. A federal appeals court considers whether Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director convicted of insider trading, can remain free from prison while he appeals his conviction. Time Warner's chief executive, Jeff Bewkes, speaks at the UBS Global Media and Communications Conference at about noon. Roger C. Altman, chairman of Evercore Partners, is on Bloomberg TV at 8 a.m. Marc Lasry, chief executive of Avenue Capital Management, is on Bloomberg TV at 11 a.m. Pandora Media reports earnings after the market closes.
STUDY SAYS HIGH-SPEED TRADES HURT INVESTORS | The computerized traders dominating the stock market may not be so beneficial for ordinary investors. According to the chief economist at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, these high-speed trading firms take significant profits from traditional investors, making an average profit of as much as $5.05 when they go against small traders with a widely used financial contract, The New York Times reports. The study, which was not endorsed by the commission, adds to a growing controversy over high-speed traders, with officials debating their role in the markets. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of top financial regulators, took up the issue last month. Bart Chilton, one of five agency commissioners, said on Monday that "what the study shows is that high-frequency traders are really the new middleman in exchange trading, and they're taking some of the cream off the top."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Baxter to Buy Gambro for $2.8 Billion | The medical devices manufacturer Baxter has agreed to buy the Swedish company Gambro for $2.8 billion, a deal that will give Baxter access to a lineup of medical equipment to expand its own range of dialysis products. DEALBOOK
Qualcomm Buys a Stake in Sharp | The struggling Japanese consumer electronics giant Sharp said it would receive a $120 million investment from Qualcomm in a two-part deal that would make the American company one of Sharp's biggest shareholders. DealBook »
GCS Capital in Talks to Buy Dexia Asset Management | The private equity firm GCS Capital of Hong Kong is in discussions to acquire the fund management unit of the struggling European bank Dexia. A price for the division was not disclosed. DealBook »
Delta's Talks Over Virgin Stake Raise Questions About Branson's Holdings | As Delta Air Lines holds talks to buy some or all of the 49 percent stake Singapore Airlines holds in Virgin Atlantic, one question has arisen: What will happen to the holdings of Richard Branson? DealBook »
News Corp. Details Its Split | 
NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
Dell Shares Leap After Analyst Muses About a Buyout | Shares of Dell rose sharply on Monday after an analyst at Goldman Sachs upgraded the stock and mused about the possibility of a leveraged buyout in the computer maker's future. DealBook »
Saputo to Buy Morningstar Unit of Dean Foods for $1.45 Billion | Saputo, a Canadian dairy processor, agreed on Monday to buy the Morningstar division of Dean Foods for about $1.45 billion in cash to help expand its presence in the United States. DealBook »
Equifax to Buy Credit Service Business for $1 Billion | The consumer credit agency Equifax agreed on Monday to buy the credit services unit of the Computer Sciences Corporation for $1 billion in cash. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Bank of England Issues Warning on Banker Pay | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Bankers' pay should better reflect the risks they are running and include incentives to ensure they keep an eye on their institution's long-term health, the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee recommended this month." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Banks See Fresh Appeal in Money Management | Bloomberg News reports: "Global banks, forced by regulators to reduce their dependence on profits from high-risk trading, have rediscovered the appeal of the mundane business of managing money for clients." BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Lending, Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Seen as Lacking | Reuters reports that Morgan Stanley's wealth management division "has suffered a series of defections of top advisers," partially because some advisers see the firm as "weak at providing loans to private banking clients compared with rivals owned by commercial banks." REUTERS
Mitsubishi UFJ Looks to Gain Market Share in Bond Underwriting | The Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is "hiring bankers and encouraging staff at its partner Morgan Stanley to attract more foreign issuers of yen debt," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Calpers Official Takes Aim at Private Equity Fees | Réal Desrochers, the head of private equity investing for Calpers, "has told buyout funds to reduce fees if they want cash from the $241 billion pension goliath," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Cerberus Said to Be in Talks to Join Bid for Knight Capital | Cerberus Capital Management is in talks to join Virtu Financial's bid for Knight Capital, a move that "would add another deep-pocketed investor to a group that already includes Silver Lake Partners and banks such as Credit Suisse," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PMI Group Says Private Equity Investor Is Considering Taking a Stake | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Nobel Foundation to Invest With Hedge Funds | Bloomberg News reports: "The Nobel Foundation, which this year lopped 20 percent off its cash prizes, is planning to invest more money through hedge funds to boost its returns and restore the award to its previous size." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Funds Barely Beat the Stock Market in November | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Attila Resources Looks to Raise $5.2 Million | The Australian mining company Attila is selling shares at a 20 percent discount to the recent trading price, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Student Group, Concerned About Privacy, Plans to Sue Facebook in Ireland | 
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
The Pope Takes to Twitter | The pontiff, who is 85, will begin posting messages next week in 140 characters or fewer. NEW YORK TIMES
Google Ventures Backs Social Marketing Company | Google's venture capital arm led a $1.2 million investment round in TrueLens, a company that uses social data to help brands reach customers, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Judge Approves $110 Million El Paso Corp. Settlement | A judge approved a $110 million settlement on Monday between the El Paso Corporation and its shareholders, who sought last year to block the sale of the company's pipeline business to Kinder Morgan for $21.1 billion. DealBook »
Britain Goes After Tax Evasion by Multinationals | The British government earmarked an additional $123 million for an effort to counter "offshore evasion and avoidance by wealthy individuals and multinationals," said George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Oracle to Move Up Dividend Payments | Oracle said it would pay more than $800 million in next year's dividends this month "because of the possibility that income tax rates will rise in 2013," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Taking His Fight Against H.P. to the Web | On Monday, Mike Lynch, the founder of the British software company Autonomy, set up AutonomyAccounts.org, a Web site meant to house his responses to the controversy swirling around his former company. DealBook »
Dykstra Sentenced in Bankruptcy Fraud Case | The former baseball star Lenny Dykstra, who pleaded guilty to bankruptcy fraud, "was sentenced on Monday to six months in federal prison and ordered to perform 500 hours of community service," Reuters reports. REUTERS
The Company Is in Trouble, But the Executives Still Get Paid | The closing of Hostess Brands provides just the latest example of a financially ailing company paying bonuses to executives who oversee its final days. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Terms of Greek Buyback Offer Exceed Expectations | The prices offered by the Greek government to buy back bonds were above what markets had expected, and analysts predicted that the premium would ultimately be about 4 cents above where the bonds traded last week, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
String of Insider Trading Cases Shows Prosecutors Casting a Wider Net | The recent cases of insider trading do not involve the use of wiretaps to capture how the information was disclosed, evidence that was a central feature of other such prosecutions in the last two years, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Lawyer Says Trader Did Not Manipulate Market | A lawyer for Glenn Hadden, the head of global rates at Morgan Stanley, said the CME Group's investigation of his client concerns "technical risk management activity in a one-minute period four years ago, during which Mr. Hadden acted properly and followed established market practice." DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); FILM (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); TAX LAW (62%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (60%); DANCE (53%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



134 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2287 words

HEADLINE: Buffett on the State of Wall Street

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Warren E. Buffett criticized the trading culture of Wall Street. | A venture capitalist is betting he will find the next Mark Zuckerberg in China. | The S.E.C. charged the Chinese affiliates of five big accounting firms with violating securities laws. | Hollywood films about the evils of capitalism are often financed with tax incentives. 

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett, the Berkshire Hathaway chief, criticized the trading culture of Wall Street, which he says offers incentives to generate fees and fast profits. Over lunch with Andrew Ross Sorkin, he said he was skeptical of the modern-day hedge fund industry and added that his preferred strategy was still to buy and hold, Mr. Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
It concerned him, for instance, that he was able to buy the equivalent of 10 percent of I.B.M. in six to eight months because of the market's liquidity. "The idea that people look at their holdings in such a way that that kind of volume exists means that to a great extent, it's a casino game," said Mr. Buffett, who was in town to discuss a new book about his career, "Tap Dancing to Work," by Carol Loomis of Fortune magazine.
While Mr. Buffett spoke well of the old-school hedge fund manager Julian Robertson, he was "less enamored" of the next generation of investors, Mr. Sorkin writes. When asked if he admired any private equity investors, Mr. Buffett replied, "No." He struggled to name any hedge fund managers he followed, before mentioning Seth Klarman of the Baupost Group. 
"They're not as good as the old ones generally," Mr. Buffett said. "The field has gotten swamped, so there's so much money playing and people have been able to raise money by just saying 'hedge fund.'"
 SEARCHING FOR TECH TALENT IN CHINA | Stephen Bell, a venture capitalist who co-founded Trilogy VC, is betting he will find the next Mark Zuckerberg in China. He tours the country's top universities in search of fledgling entrepreneurs, offering financing to students "who often have just a kernel of an idea," Ron Gluckman reports in DealBook. Mr. Bell has more than $2 million a year to invest, with plans to offer financing to 15 to 30 start-ups, DealBook says. It is a highly unusual strategy in China, especially as some fear the market may be overheated. But Mr. Bell says, "I only need to hit one home run among a hundred, and I'm doing fine."
S.E.C. RAISES CONCERNS WITH AUDITS IN CHINA | The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has been broadly investigating Chinese companies that have gone public in the United States, charged the Chinese affiliates of five big accounting firms with violating securities laws, saying they refused to turn over documents related to several companies based in China, Edward Wyatt reports for DealBook. "As part of the administrative proceedings, the accounting firms could face sanctions. Under the law, the government could prohibit them from practicing before the S.E.C., on a temporary or permanent basis. In essence, that means their audits of publicly traded companies would not satisfy securities laws." The regulator's attack on China's auditors is fair, but enforcing it could lead to a chaotic wave of delistings from American markets, John Foley writes in Reuters Breakingviews.
THE MONEY BEHIND 'WALL STREET' | Hollywood has honed the character of the financial villain over the years, with movies like Oliver Stone's "Wall Street." But the film industry "has come to use plenty of its own Wall Street-style financial engineering, relying on tax credits and incentives to make money," Louise Story reports in The New York Times. Films like "Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps" and "Margin Call" take advantage of tax breaks from local governments, which compete to attract the filmmakers. "Hollywood may make movies about the evils of capitalism, but it rarely works without incentives, which are paid for by taxpayers," Ms. Story reports.
Nationwide, the film industry draws about $1.5 billion in tax breaks each year, The Times reports. But it is not always clear that these incentives benefit the local economies. "I'd like for it to be true that the incentive is good for New York, too, and everyone is benefiting," said Michael Benaroya, a film investor who financed "Margin Call." "But at the end of the day, if there's an incentive, it's good for me."
ON THE AGENDA | Bloomberg TV will air an interview with President Obama on the fiscal situation at 12:30 p.m. The Goldman Sachs Financial Services conference kicks off in Manhattan. Tuesday's speakers include Gregory J. Fleming, president of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, at 8:10 a.m.; Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, at 9:30 a.m.; and Douglas Braunstein, JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer, at 12:25 p.m. The Economic Studies program at Brookings holds a conference to "review the social purposes of finance" and consider proposals for change. Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve Board governor, is giving the keynote address at 10:45 a.m. A federal appeals court considers whether Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs director convicted of insider trading, can remain free from prison while he appeals his conviction. Time Warner's chief executive, Jeff Bewkes, speaks at the UBS Global Media and Communications Conference at about noon. Roger C. Altman, chairman of Evercore Partners, is on Bloomberg TV at 8 a.m. Marc Lasry, chief executive of Avenue Capital Management, is on Bloomberg TV at 11 a.m. Pandora Media reports earnings after the market closes.
STUDY SAYS HIGH-SPEED TRADES HURT INVESTORS | The computerized traders dominating the stock market may not be so beneficial for ordinary investors. According to the chief economist at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, these high-speed trading firms take significant profits from traditional investors, making an average profit of as much as $5.05 when they go against small traders with a widely used financial contract, The New York Times reports. The study, which was not endorsed by the commission, adds to a growing controversy over high-speed traders, with officials debating their role in the markets. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of top financial regulators, took up the issue last month. Bart Chilton, one of five agency commissioners, said on Monday that "what the study shows is that high-frequency traders are really the new middleman in exchange trading, and they're taking some of the cream off the top."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Baxter to Buy Gambro for $2.8 Billion | The medical devices manufacturer Baxter has agreed to buy the Swedish company Gambro for $2.8 billion, a deal that will give Baxter access to a lineup of medical equipment to expand its own range of dialysis products. DEALBOOK
Qualcomm Buys a Stake in Sharp | The struggling Japanese consumer electronics giant Sharp said it would receive a $120 million investment from Qualcomm in a two-part deal that would make the American company one of Sharp's biggest shareholders. DealBook »
GCS Capital in Talks to Buy Dexia Asset Management | The private equity firm GCS Capital of Hong Kong is in discussions to acquire the fund management unit of the struggling European bank Dexia. A price for the division was not disclosed. DealBook »
Delta's Talks Over Virgin Stake Raise Questions About Branson's Holdings | As Delta Air Lines holds talks to buy some or all of the 49 percent stake Singapore Airlines holds in Virgin Atlantic, one question has arisen: What will happen to the holdings of Richard Branson? DealBook »
News Corp. Details Its Split | 
NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
Dell Shares Leap After Analyst Muses About a Buyout | Shares of Dell rose sharply on Monday after an analyst at Goldman Sachs upgraded the stock and mused about the possibility of a leveraged buyout in the computer maker's future. DealBook »
Saputo to Buy Morningstar Unit of Dean Foods for $1.45 Billion | Saputo, a Canadian dairy processor, agreed on Monday to buy the Morningstar division of Dean Foods for about $1.45 billion in cash to help expand its presence in the United States. DealBook »
Equifax to Buy Credit Service Business for $1 Billion | The consumer credit agency Equifax agreed on Monday to buy the credit services unit of the Computer Sciences Corporation for $1 billion in cash. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Bank of England Issues Warning on Banker Pay | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Bankers' pay should better reflect the risks they are running and include incentives to ensure they keep an eye on their institution's long-term health, the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee recommended this month." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Banks See Fresh Appeal in Money Management | Bloomberg News reports: "Global banks, forced by regulators to reduce their dependence on profits from high-risk trading, have rediscovered the appeal of the mundane business of managing money for clients." BLOOMBERG NEWS
For Lending, Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Seen as Lacking | Reuters reports that Morgan Stanley's wealth management division "has suffered a series of defections of top advisers," partially because some advisers see the firm as "weak at providing loans to private banking clients compared with rivals owned by commercial banks." REUTERS
Mitsubishi UFJ Looks to Gain Market Share in Bond Underwriting | The Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is "hiring bankers and encouraging staff at its partner Morgan Stanley to attract more foreign issuers of yen debt," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Calpers Official Takes Aim at Private Equity Fees | Réal Desrochers, the head of private equity investing for Calpers, "has told buyout funds to reduce fees if they want cash from the $241 billion pension goliath," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Cerberus Said to Be in Talks to Join Bid for Knight Capital | Cerberus Capital Management is in talks to join Virtu Financial's bid for Knight Capital, a move that "would add another deep-pocketed investor to a group that already includes Silver Lake Partners and banks such as Credit Suisse," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PMI Group Says Private Equity Investor Is Considering Taking a Stake | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Nobel Foundation to Invest With Hedge Funds | Bloomberg News reports: "The Nobel Foundation, which this year lopped 20 percent off its cash prizes, is planning to invest more money through hedge funds to boost its returns and restore the award to its previous size." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hedge Funds Barely Beat the Stock Market in November | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Attila Resources Looks to Raise $5.2 Million | The Australian mining company Attila is selling shares at a 20 percent discount to the recent trading price, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Student Group, Concerned About Privacy, Plans to Sue Facebook in Ireland | 
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
The Pope Takes to Twitter | The pontiff, who is 85, will begin posting messages next week in 140 characters or fewer. NEW YORK TIMES
Google Ventures Backs Social Marketing Company | Google's venture capital arm led a $1.2 million investment round in TrueLens, a company that uses social data to help brands reach customers, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Judge Approves $110 Million El Paso Corp. Settlement | A judge approved a $110 million settlement on Monday between the El Paso Corporation and its shareholders, who sought last year to block the sale of the company's pipeline business to Kinder Morgan for $21.1 billion. DealBook »
Britain Goes After Tax Evasion by Multinationals | The British government earmarked an additional $123 million for an effort to counter "offshore evasion and avoidance by wealthy individuals and multinationals," said George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Oracle to Move Up Dividend Payments | Oracle said it would pay more than $800 million in next year's dividends this month "because of the possibility that income tax rates will rise in 2013," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Taking His Fight Against H.P. to the Web | On Monday, Mike Lynch, the founder of the British software company Autonomy, set up AutonomyAccounts.org, a Web site meant to house his responses to the controversy swirling around his former company. DealBook »
Dykstra Sentenced in Bankruptcy Fraud Case | The former baseball star Lenny Dykstra, who pleaded guilty to bankruptcy fraud, "was sentenced on Monday to six months in federal prison and ordered to perform 500 hours of community service," Reuters reports. REUTERS
The Company Is in Trouble, But the Executives Still Get Paid | The closing of Hostess Brands provides just the latest example of a financially ailing company paying bonuses to executives who oversee its final days. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Terms of Greek Buyback Offer Exceed Expectations | The prices offered by the Greek government to buy back bonds were above what markets had expected, and analysts predicted that the premium would ultimately be about 4 cents above where the bonds traded last week, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
String of Insider Trading Cases Shows Prosecutors Casting a Wider Net | The recent cases of insider trading do not involve the use of wiretaps to capture how the information was disclosed, evidence that was a central feature of other such prosecutions in the last two years, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Lawyer Says Trader Did Not Manipulate Market | A lawyer for Glenn Hadden, the head of global rates at Morgan Stanley, said the CME Group's investigation of his client concerns "technical risk management activity in a one-minute period four years ago, during which Mr. Hadden acted properly and followed established market practice." DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); FUNDRAISING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); FILM (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); TAX LAW (63%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (60%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (60%); DANCE (53%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (93%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



135 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: From Bubble to Muddling Through?

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP


HIGHLIGHT: Last week's column examined the confusing picture for China's growth. New data is out, and the outlook is still confusing. 

 BODY:
Last week's column examined the confusing picture for China's growth. New data is out, and the outlook is still confusing.
Two measures of manufacturing activity, the official Purchasing Managers Index and the HSBC Purchasing Managers Index, both rose above 50, which indicates expansion, for the first time in months. All is not rosy though, as this roundup of economists' reactions explains. 
While it is certainly good news that the economy may have bottomed, much of the improvement appears to have come from larger, state-owned enterprises instead of private firms, inventories of finished goods rose slightly and there was weakness in manufacturing employment. Then again, considering that China's official measure of urban employment has remained nearly unchanged since the start of 2010, who knows what to believe in the official statistics. 
Last week FT China Confidential head James Kynge, a very smart, longtime observer of China, expressed optimism about the economy in the video "China - Stronger Growth Ahead?," but the Shanghai stock market does not share his bullishness. 
THE SHANGHAI INDEX HIT A 46-MONTH LOW ON MONDAY . (It rose slightly on Tuesday.) The index is down more than 10 percent for the year and looks to be heading for its third consecutive annual loss. Business is so bad that Chinese securities firms are planning significant layoffs. Chinese firms have lost so much market capitalization, while American ones have gained so much with the Standard & Poor's 500's recovery since 2009, that the United States has supplanted China in the ranking of biggest firms.
The Chinese market is not necessarily a good proxy for the overall economy, as Bank of America economist Ting Lu recently noted:
Very often the sentiment-driven A-share market is a barometer for Chinese investors' mass psychology instead of the real economy. More specifically, domestic investors might get increasingly disappointed about prospects of future financial reforms, especially reforms on stock markets. Availability of other investment channels such as wealth management products and housing also divert demand.
The Financial Times has a disturbing examination of China's shadow banking system, whose size may now be as high as 50 percent of China's gross domestic product. The yields on the wealth management products that make up a large part of the shadow banking system are significantly higher than saving deposit rates, and these days buying one looks a lot more attractive than putting your money into the stock market. 
The Financial TImes quotes Bank of Chairman Xiao Gang's October 12 China Daily Op-ed in which he wrote that some parts of the shadow banking system have elements of a Ponzi scheme. 
 MR. XIAO IS ONE OF THE FRONT-RUNNERS to replace Zhou Xiaochuan as the next head of the People's Bank of China. If he gets the job, expect him to proactively try to tackle the risks building in the system to avoid a huge bailout. Most investors assume that if the wealth management products go bust, the government will pick up the tab. They are probably right, as Beijing would likely be very worried about the social stability effects of large numbers of middle-class and affluent Chinese losing significant amounts of money on products sold by the heavily regulated banks. 
Money is also starting to flow back into real estate. The Financial Times looks at the recent shift in sentiment in Chinese property market finds its fizz. China has a new 2012 "land king", as a state-owned enterprise paid 5.62 billion renminbi on Nov. 30 for a plot of land in Nanjing
Last week's column also discussed the continuing signs of an impending crackdown on corruption. Investors who like the recent Chinese data may still want to be wary of any stocks that have exposure to China's corruption economy, and specifically ones that rely on business from mistresses. Two weeks ago a sex tape scandal brought down a mid-level Chongqing official named Lei Zhengfu and last week Shan Zengde, an official in Shandong province, was detained after his written promise to his mistress to divorce his wife leaked online. One of Shan's colleagues co-signed the pledge as a witness. 
Those who believe that China's technocrats have the knowledge and ability to muddle through this downturn and successfully guide a sustainable economic recovery should hope that the officials in Beijing are a lot smarter than the lascivious officials in the provinces who keep making the news.

        
American Politics and Chinese Data
        
The Confusing Outlooks for China's Growth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BONDS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); RANKINGS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (55%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; China; Economic Conditions and Trends; People's Bank of China; Stocks and Bonds; Zhou Xiaochuan; China Insider; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: People's Bank of China

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Zhou Xiaochuan

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%) EAST CHINA (91%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



136 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urges Immigration Policy Reshaped With 'Benevolent Spirit'

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: The former president, in a rare public statement on policy, rejects the idea that the country has to choose between between securing its borders and providing a pathway to citizenship for those who are already here, however they arrived. 

 BODY:
Former President George W. Bush weighed back into the nation's volatile immigration debate on Tuesday by calling on policymakers in Washington to revamp the law "with a benevolent spirit" that recognizes the contribution of those who move here from other countries. 
 Mr. Bush has remained largely out of the policy arena since leaving the White House four years ago, but immigration has long been one of his passions and he spent much of his presidency trying to make it easier for those in the United States illegally to come out of the shadows and earn legal status. 
 In speaking out on Tuesday, Mr. Bush was pushing his party again at a time when some other Republicans are beginning to come around to his point of view. Latinos represented 10 percent of the electorate for the first time in last month's election and overwhelmingly supported Democrats, leading some conservatives to re-evaluate the party's stance to avoid permanently losing an increasingly powerful constituency.
 Mr. Bush received 44 percent of Latino votes when he won re-election in 2004, while this year's Republican nominee, former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, who presented himself as a staunch foe of illegal immigration, won 27 percent. Given the rising share of the Latino vote, that trend bodes ominously for Republicans in future years. Among those who have spoken out about making the party more open to immigrants has been former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida.
 His brother, the former president, added his voice again during a speech opening a conference on immigration and economic growth in Dallas sponsored by his public policy institute. As he did when he was president, Mr. Bush rejected the old tension between securing the nation's border and providing a pathway to citizenship for those already here.
 "America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time," he said, according to a transcript provided by his office. "As our nation debates the proper course of action relating to immigration, I hope we do so with a benevolent spirit and keep in mind the contributions of immigrants."
 "Not only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul," Mr. Bush said. "Growing up here in Texas, like many in this room, we've had the honor and privilege of meeting newly arrived. Those whom I've met love their families. They see education as a bright future for their children. Some willingly defend the flag."
 The former president described immigrants as a bedrock of the nation's economy, providing new skills and new ideas while filling critical gaps in the labor market. But he also presented the question in more human terms in a state that has been one of the major homes to immigrants over the years.
 Mr. Bush recalled attending naturalization ceremonies as president. "I'll never forget the proud looks on those whose hands were raised to swear allegiance to our nation," he said.

        
Ex-Senator Criticizes Republicans' Tone on Immigration
        
Obama Courts Latino Voters With Immigration Speech
        
Romney Campaign Manager Says He Regrets Immigration Stance
        
Mexico's President-Elect Discusses Immigration Policy With Obama
        
Obama Expresses Confidence in Early Action on Immigration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); CITIZENSHIP (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); FAMILY (69%); CHILDREN (63%) Bush, George W; Immigration and Emigration; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (58%) Bush, George W

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012



137 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: How Cities Can Save China

BYLINE: By HENRY M. PAULSON Jr.. 
Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs and Treasury secretary, is the chairman of the Paulson Institute.

 BODY:
CHINA is experiencing its most severe economic downturn in decades, and revitalizing its economic model is critical to future prosperity -- not only in China, but around the world.
Central to that effort is the transformation of China's cities. By adopting a new approach to urbanization, its leaders can assure more balanced investment, address a major source of debt, achieve a consumption windfall and clean up the country's environment. Otherwise, China's economic and environmental problems will worsen, with vast implications for the rest of the world.
China's success has been built on two pillars: investment and exports. But after decades of growth, this model is delivering diminishing returns. There is little doubt that China must change to a new model, one that relies on consumption to generate growth, while addressing debt and broadening the use of sustainable energy and environmental practices. 
Cities, home to hundreds of millions of Chinese consumers, lie at the core of this problem -- and offer a potential solution.
A flawed system of municipal finance is driving debt, corruption and dissent, while unsustainable urban planning has yielded polluted cities that are destroying China's ecosystem. Yet China's future requires continued urbanization, which, absent a new approach, will only make the problem worse.
Cities can, however, be part of the solution: better urban policies can put China on a healthier path forward, economically and environmentally.
For one thing, municipal financial reform is essential because debt is crushing Chinese cities, leaving mayors with no means of financing the central government's policy mandates. Mayors have developed creative ways to raise revenues, including appropriating farmers' land and seizing land on the outskirts of cities to sell to developers. But these practices contribute to urban sprawl and often feed corruption.
Among other changes, China's cities need transparent budgets and the devolution of more tax authority to cities.
More innovative urban planning and design are also needed. To achieve the country's goals of raising living standards for a broader share of the population, cities must be better designed to yield energy efficiency and environmental sustainability.
China's potential is stifled by traffic and pollution. Gazing out my hotel window in Beijing on a recent trip, I saw air that was hazy and polluted -- a stark contrast to the sparkling view of Lake Michigan I enjoy from my kitchen window at home in Chicago.
This isn't just China's problem. Experts found that dirty air from China contributed up to 20 percent of the ground-level pollution on the American West Coast in 2010. And that is when just one-tenth of Chinese own cars. Imagine what China's air quality will become when this number triples, as some experts predict it will within the next several years.
Take another example: construction. Within city centers are countless ''superblocks'' -- half-kilometer-square developments interspersed with huge boulevards that create monster traffic jams and skyrocketing pollution.
In response, an approach that featured smaller blocks and mixed-use neighborhoods and accessible public transportation would alleviate these unintended consequences. Such ''livable cities'' would balance economic development with energy efficiency, improve air quality and reduce congestion.
Getting China's urbanization right will matter to us all. Fortunately, many in China understand this, and cooperation with the United States government, corporate world and nonprofit sector, including my own research and advocacy institute, is bringing them the tools they need to prioritize design issues in their cities and adapt infrastructure plans now. These tools include instruction in sustainable practices for government leaders, public education in environmental issues and specialized training for the country's urban planners.
China must adopt this new approach quickly, before vast infrastructure investment makes the current model irreversible. By 2025, China is projected to have a staggering 200 cities with populations over one million. America has just nine.
Global prosperity depends on China's continuing to be an engine of growth. We all need China to reinvent its economic model. Working together on urbanization creates progress toward joint solutions to the challenges the world faces from overwhelming pressure on natural ecosystems, resources and commodities.
We need Chinese cities to succeed, and we can help ensure that they do so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); URBANIZATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); AIR QUALITY (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); LAKES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); WEST USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



138 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; COMING BACK | KISSAM AVENUE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: At Home Again, but Only to Mourn

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
From time to time, Pedro Correa goes home. To get there these days, he drives his red pickup down Kissam Avenue on Staten Island, pulls on some chest-high waders, steps off the road and into the adjoining marsh and starts slogging through the mire.
His one-story house was once located at 103 Kissam Avenue, on dry land. But the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy ripped it from its foundations, carried it several hundred yards into the middle of the marsh and dropped it in the muck. Its rooftop juts from the high phragmites at an awkward angle. 
''You can still go in it and walk through the rooms,'' Mr. Correa said. ''For a second you get the sense of being home, but very quickly you get the feeling that there's something wrong.''
Before the storm, there were about three dozen houses on Kissam Avenue, which stretches like a pointed index finger from Mill Road, in the Oakwood neighborhood, to the beach. Encompassed by wetlands, the area feels closer to the Florida Everglades than to the rest of New York City.
But the very qualities that made the place so attractive to many homeowners -- its proximity to the Lower New York Bay, its quiet isolation in the whispering swale -- suddenly made it vulnerable to the storm's destructive power.
The water and wind destroyed nearly half of the homes, and flooded the rest. All that remains of about a dozen are concrete foundations and gaping cellars surrounded by blossoms of mildewed belongings.
Pieces of those pulverized homes were carried, just like Mr. Correa's house, into the swamp to the south: porches, furniture, a swing set, a chicken coop, detached rooftops.
On the morning after the storm, some residents of the street gathered at a berm on Mill Road and looked out across the landscape of debris.
Mr. Correa was there, along with his friend, Robert Gavars. Wearing borrowed clothes, they recounted how they had been trapped in Mr. Correa's house as the bay water engulfed it, and only made it to dry land by leaping onto the roof of a neighbor's house that had broken from its foundations, riding it inland a few hundred yards and then swimming to safety.
''We should be dead, bro,'' Mr. Correa told Mr. Gavars.
It would be another few days before the water receded enough to allow residents to discover what had become of their lives. All of the avenue's residents have had to live in rented homes elsewhere, or with family and friends.
Some of the residents whose homes were destroyed still return every few days to sift through the detritus.
On a recent afternoon, Phyllis and Anthony Puglia were picking through the remains of their two-story home at 114 Kissam, where they had lived for 18 years. The hurt had not faded all that much.
''Look at what I lost!'' Mr. Puglia hollered, gesturing broadly at the wreckage. A musician and photographer, he pointed to equipment that had once been part of a darkroom and a recording studio. ''Our home exploded, man!'' he yelled.
Later that afternoon, Mr. Correa ambled out of the marsh in his waders, accompanied by two insurance adjusters. They had been out to inspect his house, where he had lived with his wife and two young children.
As the adjusters wandered off to survey his property, Mr. Correa said he feared that his insurance policies had left him exposed financially.
''Every room had a TV. We were good,'' he said. ''Now we're talking to bankruptcy lawyers.''
A lifelong resident of Brooklyn, Mr. Correa moved to Kissam Avenue six years ago to be closer to the Arthur Kill Correctional Facility, where he worked as a correction officer until the center was closed. He now works at Sing Sing Correctional Facility.
The family embraced the neighborhood. It was quiet. Neighbors looked out for one another. ''We all had keys to each other's houses,'' he said. ''It was like a hidden jewel.''
But the future of the community is uncertain right now, at best.
Some, like Franca Costa of 14 Kissam Avenue, have pushed forward with rebuilding, gutting her one-story bungalow with the help of volunteers. ''I'm not going anywhere,'' she declared.
But others, the Puglias, have decided to leave. They are planning to move to a residential complex in New Jersey, Mr. Puglia said -- ''three and a half miles inland and on a hill.''
There has been speculation up and down the road about the state or the city buying out some or all of the homes, and integrating the properties into the surrounding wetlands. Short of that, residents ask, can the government offer any new protection against storm surges?
Mr. Correa is almost sure he will not return. As much as he loved the place, he said, he could not see how it would be economically or emotionally feasible to stay. The sound of the ocean lapping at the shoreline at night, once soothing, would keep his family awake.
''I can't do this again,'' he said.
As he spoke, a car drove slowly by: nobody Mr. Correa knew.
''Disaster tourists,'' he mumbled.
COMING BACK: Articles in this series are chronicling how four communities are struggling to recover after Hurricane Sandy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DISLOCATION: Hurricane Sandy ripped Pedro Correa's house from its foundations, carried it into a marsh and dropped it in the muck.
A TOUGH SLOG: To get to his house, which was carried several hundred yards away, Mr. Correa pulls on chest-high waders.
 FLEETING SOLACE: ''You can still go in it and walk through the rooms,'' Mr. Correa said. ''For a second you get the sense of being home, but very quickly you get the feeling that there's something wrong.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (78%); HURRICANES (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (76%); WETLANDS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



139 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: The Divestment Brigade

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS; Brent Summers contributed reporting from Burlington, Vt.

 BODY:
SWARTHMORE, Pa. -- A group of Swarthmore College students is asking the school administration to take a seemingly simple step to combat pollution and climate change: sell off the endowment's holdings in large fossil fuel companies. For months, they have been getting a simple answer: no.
As they consider how to ratchet up their campaign, the students suddenly find themselves at the vanguard of a national movement.
In recent weeks, college students on dozens of campuses have demanded that university endowment funds rid themselves of coal, oil and gas stocks. The students see it as a tactic that could force climate change, barely discussed in the presidential campaign, back onto the national political agenda. 
''We've reached this point of intense urgency that we need to act on climate change now, but the situation is bleaker than it's ever been from a political perspective,'' said William Lawrence, a Swarthmore senior from East Lansing, Mich.
Students who have signed on see it as a conscious imitation of the successful effort in the 1980s to pressure colleges and other institutions to divest themselves of the stocks of companies doing business in South Africa under apartheid.
A small institution in Maine, Unity College, has already voted to get out of fossil fuels. Another, Hampshire College in Massachusetts, has adopted a broad investment policy that is ridding its portfolio of fossil fuel stocks.
''In the near future, the political tide will turn and the public will demand action on climate change,'' Stephen Mulkey, the Unity College president, wrote in a letter to other college administrators. ''Our students are already demanding action, and we must not ignore them.''
But at colleges with large endowments, many administrators are viewing the demand skeptically, saying it would undermine their goal of maximum returns in support of education. Fossil fuel companies represent a significant portion of the stock market, comprising nearly 10 percent of the value of the Russell 3000, a broad index of 3,000 American companies.
No school with an endowment exceeding $1 billion has agreed to divest itself of fossil fuel stocks. At Harvard, which holds the largest endowment in the country at $31 billion, the student body recently voted to ask the school to do so. With roughly half the undergraduates voting, 72 percent of them supported the demand.
''We always appreciate hearing from students about their viewpoints, but Harvard is not considering divesting from companies related to fossil fuels,'' Kevin Galvin, a university spokesman, said by e-mail.
Several organizations have been working on some version of a divestment campaign, initially focusing on coal, for more than a year. But the recent escalation has largely been the handiwork of a grass-roots organization, 350.org, that focuses on climate change, and its leader, Bill McKibben, a writer turned advocate. The group's name is a reference to what some scientists see as a maximum safe level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, 350 parts per million. The level is now about 390, an increase of 41 percent since before the Industrial Revolution.
Mr. McKibben is touring the country by bus, speaking at sold-out halls and urging students to begin local divestment initiatives focusing on 200 energy companies. Many of the students attending said they were inspired to do so by an article he wrote over the summer in Rolling Stone magazine, ''Global Warming's Terrifying New Math.''
Speaking recently to an audience at the University of Vermont, Mr. McKibben painted the fossil fuel industry as an enemy that must be defeated, arguing that it had used money and political influence to block climate action in Washington. ''This is no different than the tobacco industry -- for years, they lied about the dangers of their industry,'' Mr. McKibben said.
Eric Wohlschlegel, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, said that continued use of fossil fuels was essential for the country's economy, but that energy companies were investing heavily in ways to emit less carbon dioxide.
In an interview, Mr. McKibben said he recognized that a rapid transition away from fossil fuels would be exceedingly difficult. But he said strong government policies to limit emissions were long overdue, and were being blocked in part by the political power of the incumbent industry.
Mr. McKibben's goal is to make owning the stocks of these companies disreputable, in the way that owning tobacco stocks has become disreputable in many quarters. Many colleges will not buy them, for instance.
Mr. McKibben has laid out a series of demands that would get the fuel companies off 350.org's blacklist. He wants them to stop exploring for new fossil fuels, given that they have already booked reserves about five times as large as scientists say society can afford to burn. He wants them to stop lobbying against emission policies in Washington. And he wants them to help devise a transition plan that will leave most of their reserves in the ground while encouraging lower-carbon energy sources.
''They need more incentive to make the transition that they must know they need to make, from fossil fuel companies to energy companies,'' Mr. McKibben said.
Most college administrations, at the urging of their students, have been taking global warming seriously for years, spending money on steps like cutting energy consumption and installing solar panels.
The divestment demand is so new that most administrators are just beginning to grapple with it. Several of them, in interviews, said that even though they tended to agree with students on the seriousness of the problem, they feared divisive boardroom debates on divestment.
That was certainly the case in the 1980s, when the South African divestment campaign caused bitter arguments across the nation.
The issue then was whether divestment, potentially costly, would have much real effect on companies doing business in South Africa. Even today, historians differ on whether it did. But the campaign required prominent people to grapple with the morality of apartheid, altering the politics of the issue. Economic pressure from many countries ultimately helped to force the whites-only South African government to the bargaining table.
Mr. Lawrence, the Swarthmore senior, said that many of today's students found that campaign inspirational because it ''transformed what was seemingly an intractable problem.''
Swarthmore, a liberal arts college southwest of Philadelphia, is a small school with a substantial endowment, about $1.5 billion. The trustees acceded to divestment demands during that campaign, in 1986, but only after a series of confrontational tactics by students, including brief occupations of the president's office.
The board later adopted a policy stating that it would be unlikely to take such a step again.
''The college's policy is that the endowment is not to be invested for social purposes'' beyond the obvious one of educating students, said Suzanne P. Welsh, vice president for finance at the school. ''To use the endowment in support of other missions is not appropriate. It's not what our donors have given money for.''
About a dozen Swarthmore students came up with the divestment tactic two years ago after working against the strip mining of coal atop mountains in Appalachia, asking the school to divest itself of investments in a short list of energy companies nicknamed the Sordid 16.
So far, the students have avoided confrontation. The campaign has featured a petition signed by nearly half the student body, small demonstrations and quirky art installations. The college president, a theologian named Rebecca Chopp, has expressed support for their goals but not their means.
Matters could escalate in coming months, with Swarthmore scheduled to host a February meeting -- the students call it a ''convergence'' -- of 150 students from other colleges who are working on divestment.
Students said they were well aware that the South Africa campaign succeeded only after on-campus actions like hunger strikes, sit-ins and the seizure of buildings. Some of them are already having talks with their parents about how far to go.
''When it comes down to it, the members of the board are not the ones who are inheriting the climate problem,'' said Sachie Hopkins-Hayakawa, a Swarthmore senior from Portland, Ore. ''We are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students in Minneapolis, seeking steps to cut atmospheric carbon levels to 350 parts per million, known as the safe level. (B1)
Bill McKibben, a writer turned advocate for carbon reduction, is on a national tour to build support for the divestment campaign. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MATUREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Demonstrators in 1978, protesting Harvard's refusal to divest itself of stocks owned in companies operating in South Africa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



140 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Looks for Fallback To Avoid a Fiscal Standoff

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With President Obama insisting on higher tax rates for affluent Americans and winning public support for the idea, Congressional Republicans find themselves in an increasingly difficult political spot and are quietly beginning to look for a way out.
Senior Republican leadership aides say they are contemplating a fallback position since a standoff over expiring tax rates will be portrayed by Democrats as evidence that the opposition is willing to allow taxes to rise on the middle class to keep taxes from rising on the rich -- and their intransigence could mean taxes go up on rich, poor and middle class alike.
The leadership officials now say that if no deal can be struck to avert the automatic expiration of all the Bush-era tax cuts and the onset of deep, across-the-board spending cuts, they could foresee taking up and passing legislation this month to extend the tax cuts for the middle class and then resume the bitter fight over spending and taxes as the nation approaches the next hard deadline: its statutory borrowing limit, which could be reached in late January or February.
''There's always better ground, but you have to get there,'' said Representative Michael C. Burgess, Republican of Texas, who made it clear he does not support allowing any taxes to rise. 
Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, who is retiring, joined a handful of other Republicans on Tuesday suggesting that Congress should pass the middle-class tax cut extensions now, then leave the fight over taxes and spending until later. Americans, she said, ''should not even be questioning that we will ultimately raise taxes on low- to middle-income people.'' Congress could take that off the table ''while you're grappling with tax cuts for the wealthy,'' she said.
But any move toward compromise with Democrats on fiscal issues quickly comes under attack from conservatives as a surrender and unsettles the rank and file.
It is a dynamic that has haunted Speaker John A. Boehner throughout the 112th Congress, as he has repeatedly been caught between the imperative to govern and the need to satisfy the restive right. Mr. Boehner, of Ohio, has drawn fire this week for removing a handful of House Republicans who have defied the leadership from their preferred committee seats, a step he took to enforce party discipline.
Mr. Obama made clear on Tuesday in an interview with Bloomberg News that he was not going to budge on raising tax rates on income over $250,000. ''We're going to have to see the rates on the top 2 percent go up,'' Mr. Obama said in his first interview since his re-election, ''and we're not going to be able to get a deal without it.''
Allowing an extension only of the middle-class tax cuts is just one possibility, and Congress may never get to that point if an agreement can be reached or if another alternative can be found. And it would be a bitter pill for Republicans to swallow since they have repeatedly called for an extension of all the expiring tax cuts, saying any increases could harm the economy.
But Republicans also know they have a problem: many liberal Democrats are more than willing to return to the Clinton-era tax code, and to allow across-the-board spending cuts to take effect, which disproportionately affect the military, rather than compromise too much with Republicans after the strong Democratic showing in the elections.
''It's a terrible position because by default, Democrats get what they want,'' said Representative James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, who admitted his party is boxed in.
In the debt ceiling fight, the tables might turn. Many conservative Republicans say they are willing to let the nation default if Congress refuses to cut spending. If the tax rate fight is resolved by the time the debt limit increase is needed, Democrats will find themselves without the leverage they now have with the expiration of the lower tax rates a certainty unless Congress acts affirmatively.
That is why in his opening bid to end the fiscal standoff, Mr. Obama proposed a permanent policy change to let the president raise the nation's borrowing limit on his own -- and why Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, reportedly laughed out loud at the idea.
Popular opinion seems to be running against the Republicans. Most Americans support higher taxes on the rich, and a poll by The Washington Post and the Pew Research Center released Tuesday found that 53 percent say Republicans in Congress would and should be blamed if Washington fails to reach a deal before January. Just 27 percent said Mr. Obama would deserve more blame, while 12 percent say both sides would share the blame equally.
Most Republicans do not want tax rates to rise on anyone, and such national polls have little sway over House members in districts drawn to favor one party over the other. In November, 204 Republicans -- 88 percent of the House Republican Conference -- won at least 55 percent of the vote, according to David Wasserman, a House analyst at The Cook Political Report. Thirty-five of them won at least 70 percent.
Speaker Boehner took as much fire from conservatives as from Democrats after proposing a deficit-reduction plan that would raise $800 billion in tax revenue over 10 years. Conservative advocacy groups and conservatives on Capitol Hill were united in their condemnation.
''One party proposes 800 billion in tax increases. In an effort to counter them and continue to be the 'low tax, small government' party, the other party's leadership proposes ... wait for it ... 800 billion in tax increases,'' huffed Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, on his Facebook page.
Given the difficulty of compromise, a fallback may emerge as a top option. Republican leaders could take up legislation already passed by the Senate to extend tax cuts on income under $250,000, attach a deferral or cancellation of the automatic spending cuts, and give Mr. Obama nothing else, denying requests for increased infrastructure spending, help for homeowners to refinance their mortgages, and extensions of the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance.
Then Republicans would demand deep concessions on spending and changes to Medicare and Social Security as a price to raise the debt ceiling a few weeks later. Republicans say any such decision to follow that course is still a ways off.
There are significant problems with this possibility, starting with the estate tax. The Senate tax bill was silent on the federal tax on inherited estates, which means if the House passes that legislation at the last minute, estate taxes would rise to Clinton-era levels, with inheritances over $1 million taxed at 55 percent. Currently the value of estates over $5 million is taxed at 35 percent.
John Engler, a former Republican governor of Michigan who is president of the influential Business Roundtable, told Bloomberg News on Tuesday that Congress should raise the debt ceiling high enough to take the limit off the table for five years.
But Republicans are not about to give up that cudgel.
''Our ground is on spending, and the president intends to continue to spend more than he has coming in,'' said Representative Austin Scott, Republican of Georgia. ''For conservatives like me, we don't want to see any debt ceiling increase without spending cuts to match.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, says Congress should pass the middle-class tax cut extensions now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (68%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MICHAEL C BURGESS (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



141 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: A Boom in Houston Is Pushed by, Surprise, the Energy Industry

BYLINE: By MATT HUDGINS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Even first-time visitors here can tell that the city is growing rapidly. Construction cranes overhang office and apartment sites all along the Katy Freeway, a stretch of Interstate 10 that connects a string of booming submarkets west of the 610 Loop. This expanse includes the Westchase neighborhood and the Energy Corridor, home to an expanding cluster of energy companies.
The energy sector drives job growth and all manner of business activity here, with the greatest demand for office space concentrated in the west side where oil and gas companies are clustered, in the medical center just south of the central business district and in the Woodlands, a master-planned community 27 miles north of downtown.
''Houston is clearly a growth leader,'' said Walter Page, director of office research at Property and Portfolio Research in Boston. ''It was the first major economy in the U.S. to register more jobs than it lost in the recession.'' Employment here is up 3.7 percent since August 2008, when it peaked before declining during the recession. That compares with New York's gain of just 0.7 percent from its peak in April 2008 before declining, Mr. Page said. 
The city's office vacancy rate was 11.9 percent in the third quarter, down from 13.4 percent a year earlier, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate research firm in Washington. Developers are creating new space to meet that strong demand, completing 15 major office buildings in the first three quarters of this year alone. Of the 3.9 million square feet of office space under construction, more than 90 percent is in the western submarkets or in the Woodlands, Mr. Page said.
The energy sector accounts for 3.4 percent of the city's employment, more than five times the national average of 0.6 percent, Mr. Page said. Despite that heavy concentration, the rest of the city's economy is diverse and helps spread the wealth that energy brings into the community to other sectors.
Brisk commercial real estate sales reflect investor interest in the market. This year, an affiliate of the Houston-based Enterprise Products Company bought the Shell Plaza, a 1.8 million-square-foot office complex in the central business district, for $550 million, CoStar reported. The seller was a fund operated by Hines, a Houston-based developer that built the property in the 1970s. Last year, Shell renewed its leases for nearly 1.3 million square feet at Shell Plaza.
Hines developed much of the city's commercial real estate. Today the company's projects here include multifamily construction in the shadow of office buildings that it developed in the Galleria, a group of office towers, hotels and retail on the southwestern rim of Loop 610, with a skyline that rivals downtown's.
Mark Cover, Hines's chief executive for the southwest region, said that energy, the medical center and the Port of Houston are the three largest engines driving the economy here. ''The global energy industry is headquartered here,'' he said. ''It's not just oil and gas, it's alternatives, too. Intellectual capital in the energy field is heavily concentrated here.''
In the only major city in the United States without zoning laws, developers can, in theory, build virtually anything, anywhere in the city. In practice, however, understanding and catering to local industries is a critical element in site selection, Mr. Cover says. ''When you really get down to it, the city is market-zoned, because land prices are not based on zoning rights, they're based on purely capitalistic, highest and best use value,'' he said. ''If you build the wrong product or build in the wrong place, the market is going to severely punish you.''
Market forces shape the city's development in hubs, says Jim Knight, who heads land development in Texas for Bury & Partners, an Austin-based engineering firm.
Refineries and distribution centers cluster near the port, while energy companies and other major employers tend to establish a presence, either downtown or in a submarket, and stick to that area indefinitely.
Employees generally move close to work rather than make long commutes in the city's heavy traffic, so apartments and single-family housing grow around major employers, eventually attracting retailers to service those populations.
Exxon Mobil is defying that pattern by building its new campus here on 385 acres near the Woodlands. Beginning in 2014, the company will bring about 10,000 jobs there, chiefly relocating from several million square feet in north Houston and downtown. Also moving to the new campus will be business units from Fairfax, Va.; Akron, Ohio; and a refinery southeast of the city, in an effort to increase collaboration and innovation.
''In my lifetime, Exxon Mobil is the first company of that size in any major city of Texas to relocate far enough away that it potentially would affect the drive times of its employees,'' Mr. Knight said.
Indeed, the migration of businesses and residents to the Woodlands in recent years has surprised many longtime city residents. Opened in 1974, the community is home to more than 100,000 residents and 1,755 businesses, according to the Howard Hughes Corporation, which acquired the 28,000-acre project in 2011.
''It's all about quality of life,'' said Paul Layne, Howard Hughes's executive vice president for master-planned communities. ''People can live here, have their offices here and play here.'' Woodlands Town Center is oriented to pedestrian traffic, with large plazas and sidewalk restaurants, night life and entertainment venues, and connections to a network of hiking and bike trails.
New office projects range in size from the 23,000-square-foot Woodlands Gateway, under development by Jorge Molina Hill, to a 31-story, 550,000-square-foot office tower that Anadarko Petroleum Corporation is building next to its headquarters in the Woodlands Town Center.
The Woodlands Development Company, a subsidiary of Howard Hughes, is building the speculative office building 3 Waterway Square across the street from Anadarko, and the developer has also broken ground on a 197,000-square-foot, speculative office building in a new mixed-use project in the Woodlands called Hughes Landing on Lake Woodlands.
''The Woodlands is really an island that doesn't necessarily compete with the other marketplaces,'' said Scott Martin, executive managing director at Granite Properties. The Houston developer has several local projects in the works, including one near the Woodlands. ''People either want to be there or they don't; it's not much of a commuter market.''
Mitsuhiko Tatsuno, an investor whose family-owned company has owned five office buildings in the Woodlands since 1990, says occupancy in the properties has increased to nearly 100 percent, from about 60 percent in 2010.
''Of the whole U.S. market, Texas and Houston are very good,'' said Mr. Tatsuno, who is head of corporate planning at Tatsuno Corporation in Osaka, Japan. ''And in Houston, the Woodlands is one of the best markets.''
Harold Holliday, an executive vice president in the debt and equity finance group at CB Richard Ellis, said he could not remember a better time here for arranging commercial real estate financing.
''We are very fortunate to be plying our craft in this city,'' said Mr. Holliday. ''We are seen as a city where you can get paid for taking risk, and in a lot of the gateway markets, you can't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Office buildings under construction in the Woodlands Town Center. The taller one is for Anadarko Petroleum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%)

COMPANY: ENTERPRISE PRODUCTS CO (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



142 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Praising Immigrants, Bush Leads Conservative Appeal for G.O.P. to Soften Tone

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Peter Baker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Looking for new footing on immigration before a debate on the volatile issue in Congress next year, Republicans and conservative leaders spoke out this week, raising arguments that immigration is good for the ailing economy and consistent with family values.
Former President George W. Bush weighed back in to the discussion on Tuesday by calling on policy makers in Washington to revamp the law ''with a benevolent spirit'' that recognized the contribution of those who moved here from other countries. 
Mr. Bush spoke at the opening of a conference highlighting the benefits of immigration hosted by an institute in Dallas that bears his name and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He described immigrants as a bedrock of the nation's economy, providing new skills and ideas while filling critical gaps in the labor market. But he also presented the question in more human terms in a state that has been a home to huge numbers of immigrants.
''Not only do immigrants help build our economy, they invigorate our soul,'' Mr. Bush said. Growing up in Texas, he said, he had ''the honor and privilege of meeting the newly arrived.''
''Those whom I've met love their families,'' he said. ''They see education as a bright future for their children. Some willingly defend the flag.''
Mr. Bush, who has remained largely out of the policy arena since leaving office, issued an appeal. ''As our nation debates the proper course of action relating to immigration,'' he said, ''I hope we do so with a benevolent spirit and keep in mind the contributions of immigrants.''
His tone contrasted sharply with the prevailing views and language of Republicans during the presidential campaign, when Mitt Romney said he favored policies that would force illegal immigrants to ''self-deport.''
In Washington, leaders of a coalition that unites conservative law enforcement officials and clergy with business leaders -- they described themselves as ''Bibles, badges and business'' -- held a strategy session Tuesday on how to push for a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws, which would include ''a road to lawful status and citizenship'' for 11 million illegal immigrants.
While several of the conservatives meeting here had expressed their support for legalization measures, they sought to enhance their influence in the coming debate by joining forces.
President Obama, acknowledging the central role of Latino support in his re-election, has said he intends to start the immigration debate early next year. Already, groups that favor legalization are assessing whether they should push for a path to citizenship as well as an overhaul of the immigration system, which is widely regarded as dysfunctional.
Some organizations argue that taking the thorny issues in smaller parts would be more likely to produce results, particularly since many House Republicans remain opposed to any amnesty for illegal immigrants.
But Richard Land, the president of the Southern Baptist Convention's policy arm, the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, said Tuesday at a news conference here that immigration was a ''moral issue.'' He warned Republicans that ''if they want to be a contender for national leadership, they are going to have to change their ways on immigration reform.''
The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference, the largest organization of Latino evangelicals, portrayed the Republicans' dilemma in biblical terms. ''They must cross the proverbial Jordan of immigration reform,'' he said, ''if they want to step into the promised land of the Hispanic electorate.''
The conservatives argued that the outcome of the election, in which Latinos gave Mr. Romney only 27 percent of their votes, should force Republicans to reconsider their support for enforcement-only policies that offer no path to legal status for illegal immigrants. They argued that an overhaul would also stop the breakup of Hispanic families by deportation.
The Rev. Luis A. Cortés Jr., the president of Esperanza, an organization based in Philadelphia that includes 13,000 Hispanic churches, said conservatives had misread Latinos in the election. ''In this election, the Hispanic voter moved away from social values to family values,'' Mr. Cortés said.
Sheriff Mark C. Curran of Lake County, Ill., which includes the Chicago suburb of Waukegan, said he had undergone ''a conversion'' on immigration since taking office. He said law enforcement officials should ''be honest'' in recognizing that the borders could not be secured without giving legal documents to immigrants already here.
Tuesday's strategy session was called by the National Immigration Forum, which favors an overhaul.
Steve Case, a co-founder of AOL who now runs a firm that invests in start-up companies, told the session that immigrant entrepreneurs were vital to bringing innovation that had spurred American growth in the past. ''The data says they are job makers, not job takers,'' Mr. Case said.
But he said both parties in Congress should focus on results. ''My view is it's important to get as much done as we can as quickly as we can,'' Mr. Case said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CHILDREN (72%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



143 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Mitchell Roschelle

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Roschelle, 51, is national practice leader and a founder of the real estate advisory practice of the American unit of the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Roschelle, who is also a partner in the firm, helped establish the practice in 1986, with four others.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. Tell me a little bit about the practice.
A. The practice has about 100 professionals across the country. We're in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, South Florida, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. There are seven partners, in addition to four managing directors, and we cover the real estate asset class from single-family residential to big office.
What we do really depends on the market needs, but it includes due diligence, financial advisory and strategic portfolio performance reviews. Our specialty is analysis. We don't compete against the brokerage community -- we don't have any vested interest in the outcome of a transaction.
Q. What is your main role there?
A. I get involved in recruiting and retaining our people and our clients.
Q. Who are your clients?
A. It's mostly institutional. They tend to be the big pension funds that invest in real estate or advisers to the pension funds and REITs. But I do have entrepreneurial clients. J. P. Morgan Investment Management and Starwood Capital, GE Capital, NorthStar Realty Finance and Ogden CAP Properties are examples of clients.
Q. How is business?
A. It's very good. There are two ways of answering the question. One, the real estate asset class couldn't be positioned better in an economy like now, so there's a tremendous amount of capital formed to invest in real estate, which is good for our business. And then because there are some markets where prices are at prerecession levels, there are clients looking to take money off the table, so there's selling of assets. There's a lot of transaction activity, which is good for our practice.
What's interesting is, if things are terrible and there are bankruptcies and disputes between parties, we do well. If things are going gangbusters like they were in '06, we do well. The only time we're slow is when there's a lot of indecision in the market.
Q. Like during the recession.
A. But interestingly enough, when that went on in '08 and '09, valuation was a tremendous issue and valuation is a big part of our practice. Financial instruments were hard to valuate; hard real estate was a little bit easier.
Q. How would you categorize 2012?
A. Coming out of the recession the big gateway cities were the ones that performed best. That included New York, Washington, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles. That's where investors were willing to take risks. You had diverse employment base, better leased buildings, less risk of a double-dip micro recession.
So that's where we were -- and 2012 was a continuation of that.
Apartments were the darling real estate subsector. But what happened in 2012 was we saw apartment cap rates get too low in some of those markets -- south of 5 percent -- and so investors were looking to invest outside apartments and outside the gateway cities. We started seeing in 2012 an interest in the office asset class, the industrial asset class, and a little bit more interest in retail.
Q. Are there regions of the country where you see future growth?
A. The other 45 markets that are covered in our investors survey look like that's where all the opportunities are -- whether it be Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Texas markets like Austin, Houston and Dallas; Seattle; and Denver.
None of them is radically overbuilt from an office or apartment perspective. What's also interesting is those markets have a high percentage of echo boomers in their population -- the 25- to 34-year-olds. That's who's going to buy a house in the future, who's going to work in an office or retail or warehouse, or shop in retail.
Q. Let's talk about your recently released 2013 Emerging Trends Survey of investors.
A. One cool thing: We asked the 900 participants what they think their prospects are for profitability for the real estate asset class, and we intentionally don't define profitability -- 93.1 percent felt that 2013 would be fair or better from a profitability perspective. That's up almost seven or eight percentage points from last year.
There isn't a lot of overbuilding in this country, so all of the stock that was created in the wake of the boom leading up to 2006-2007 -- that's in the process of being absorbed. Housing has turned a corner. The challenge we have in our country is in our job re-creation.
Q. Do you personally invest in real estate?
A. I have a home. That's it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RECESSION (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (67%); NORTHSTAR REALTY FINANCE CORP (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (67%); GEC (LSE) (67%); GE (SWX) (67%); GE (NYSE) (67%); NRF (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



144 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Indian Official Starts Pulling Up Corruption's Roots in Mumbai

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Neha Thirani contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- The units in an apartment building being built in the upscale Mumbai neighborhood of Juhu promised to be both dazzling and odd: Each of the 33 homes in the 11-story building would come with a private lily pond, a car elevator and parking spaces for three cars next to the living room.
City officials and neighborhood residents say the parking spaces were a clever sham dreamed up by a developer and corrupt bureaucrats to skirt building rules and avoid paying millions of dollars in fees. The rooms for ''parking,'' which the developer did not have to account for because they were not considered living spaces, were sold to buyers as a way to add dining areas, extra rooms or whatever else they wanted. 
The building, which remains empty awaiting the resolution of a legal case now at the Indian Supreme Court, is just one of scores of tainted real estate projects that analysts say have exposed a deep-rooted culture of corruption here in India's financial capital. In recent years, when construction was booming along with the Indian economy, Mumbai, the nation's most densely populated city, may have lost potential revenue of as much as 200 billion rupees, or $3.6 billion, a year because of such violations, said Subodh Kumar, Mumbai's former city commissioner, the Indian equivalent of an American city manager.
''One thousand square feet became 2,000 or 3,000 depending on how well you could work the system,'' said Mr. Kumar, who retired this year. ''There was a huge industry of corruption.''
The payoffs and kickbacks would probably have continued for years to come, Mr. Kumar and others say, had it not been for a new chief minister of the state of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai, formerly Bombay, is the capital. This year the minister, Prithviraj Chavan, an appointed official, approved an overhaul of the city's building permit system to make it more transparent. He stripped officials of the power to grant exemptions to favored builders and forced developers to pay fees for additions like balconies and parking spaces next to apartments.
Partly as a result, even as several big-ticket corruption scandals have deeply shaken public confidence in public officials elsewhere in India, many Mumbai residents and corporate executives say they have regained some hope for their city of 14 million, which many of them had despaired was becoming more dysfunctional by the day.
He ''is one of the finest chief ministers we have had,'' said Ashoke Pandit, a filmmaker whose neighborhood association flagged problems in numerous real estate projects, including the Juhu building. ''He is a very honest, straightforward person. He has put a stop to all the nonsense and wrongs that have happened.''
Supporters say that Mr. Chavan, 66, and a handful of other reform-minded chief ministers in states like Bihar and Orissa offer one of the few hopeful signs during a particularly dark moment for India. In the last two years, the economy has slowed sharply, corruption scandals have mushroomed and many government agencies have proved incapable of carrying out basic functions.
These regional leaders, the Indian equivalent of the governor of an American state, face plenty of critics, and their success is far from guaranteed. Political rivals and real estate developers, for example, say that Mr. Chavan's focus on eliminating corruption has come at the expense of greasing the wheels that allow for long-needed improvements.
Still, Mr. Chavan and the other chief ministers have been far more productive than the Parliament in New Delhi, which has been repeatedly paralyzed by recent scandals and political squabbles.
In Mumbai, the change in building rules is bringing in millions of dollar in extra revenue, officials say. That has helped put resources behind Mr. Chavan's push for big public works projects like a 13-mile bridge that would offer another connection to this island city, across a wide bay to the mainland, opening up vast new tracts of land for housing and commercial development.
That project had been delayed numerous times since it was first conceived in the 1960s. But now a contract is expected to be awarded early next year and construction could start by the end of 2013.
''For obvious reasons, Mumbai is really challenged; it's really bursting at the seams,'' Mr. Chavan said during an interview at his home office one recent Saturday evening. ''I think it's possible to reinvent Mumbai -- and we will do that.''
Deepak Parekh, chairman of HDFC, India's biggest mortgage lender, and one of Mumbai's most respected business leaders, said that Mr. Chavan has reset expectations in the city by sending a strong signal that pervasive corruption would no longer be tolerated.
Two years ago when he took over, he invited the city's biggest developers to a meeting and gave them a blunt warning.
''I don't want to meet any builders alone,'' Mr. Parekh recalled him saying. ''Don't try to meet me or my chief secretary or my municipal commissioner.''
Mr. Chavan was able to take a hard line, analysts say, because of the backlash against his predecessor, Ashok Chavan, who is not related and was forced out after a real estate scandal. That case involved the sale of a prime plot of government land at a low rate to a group of former army officers who built a luxurious condominium tower for themselves and the families of select government officials. Ashok Chavan has denied any wrongdoing.
At the time, Prithviraj Chavan, an aerospace engineer who studied at the University of California, Berkeley, was a national minister in charge of science policy. The Indian National Congress Party, which governs both the federal and the Maharashtra governments, chose him principally because he had a reputation for honesty, even though he had no experience running a large state.
But what made him an appealing candidate, his technocratic credentials and honesty, are also a source of concern. Even his supporters worry that Mr. Chavan will not survive the hurly-burly of Maharashtra and Mumbai politics, where the Congress Party has an uneasy relationship with its main political ally, the Nationalist Congress Party.
Though he was born in Maharashtra, now home to more than 112 million people, and is the son of two leading politicians -- important qualities in the dynastic politics of India -- Mr. Chavan has spent most of his career in New Delhi. Because he was appointed to run the state, it makes him vulnerable to the criticism that he is a carpetbagger.
His political weakness has already forced Mr. Chavan to defer decisions on some big projects like a coastal freeway to ease congestion, according to a confidant who asked not to be identified because he did not want to lose his access to the minister.
Opposition lawmakers and even some of his allies have attacked him for being a puppet of the Gandhi family, which controls the Congress Party. Many complain that while he may be cleaning up corruption, he is too cautious and makes decisions very slowly. The new building rules, for instance, took a year and a half to enact.
''Corruption-free work doesn't mean no work at all,'' Uddhav Thackeray, the leader of the Shiv Sena, an opposition political party that holds the most seats on Mumbai's City Council, said in an e-mail interview this year. ''We have seen no bold decision on the government's part after he took over, and no one is happy, neither the hardworking entrepreneurs nor the common man.''
Mr. Chavan readily acknowledged that he does not have a strong political following in the state, and he described his first early days in office as ''a baptism by fire.''
But he said his efforts to improve Mumbai and fight corruption would prove his critics wrong and win him a mandate when the state holds an election in 2014.
''Clearances got slowed down a little because we had to change the rules,'' he said. ''But I think things are happening at a very, very fast pace now.''
His admirers say they would like him to stay, but know that he could be yanked back to New Delhi at any time. In the meantime they are hoping he leaves his imprint on the city by helping usher in a new long-term plan for its development.
''We need to take full advantage of his tenure,'' said P. K. Das, a prominent architect in the city, ''as long as he is chief minister.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prithviraj Chavan, second from left, speaking to visitors outside his Mumbai office last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) MAP: The Indian National Congress Party controls the federal and Maharashtra governments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); SCANDALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (96%) MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



145 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Unionizing The Bottom Of the Pay Scale

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Other than poverty, José Carrillo and Joshua Williams have little in common. The austere life of Mr. Carrillo, a 79-year-old Peruvian immigrant from Washington Heights, is a universe apart from the hardscrabble reality of Mr. Williams, a 28-year-old single father from Atlanta staying at his aunt's place in Brooklyn to save on rent.
But their lives are connected. They both work in the fast-food industry -- Mr. Carrillo at a McDonald's in Midtown Manhattan and Mr. Williams at a Wendy's in Brooklyn. They both earn a little more than $7 an hour. And they both need food stamps to survive. Last Thursday, both did something they had never done before: they went on strike.
Their activism, part of a flash strike of some 200 workers from fast-food restaurants around New York City, caps a string of unorthodox actions sponsored by organized labor, including worker protests outside Walmart stores, which, like most fast-food chains, are opposed to being unionized, and union drives at carwashes in New York and Los Angeles. 
Labor unions are hoping that the unusual tactics, often in collaboration with social justice activists and other community groups, will offer them a new opportunity to get back on the offensive, helping to raise the floor for wages and working conditions in the harsh, ultracompetitive economy of the 21st century.
Mr. Carrillo's and Mr. Williams's meager salaries also underscore the straightforward choice we face as a nation: either we build an economy in which most workers can earn enough to adequately support their families or we build a government with the wherewithal to subsidize the existence of a lower class that can't survive on its own. We are doing neither.
More than two million workers toil in food preparation jobs at limited-service restaurants like McDonald's, according to government statistics. They are the lowest-paid workers in the country, government figures show, typically earning $8.69 an hour. A study by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning research organization, concluded that almost three-quarters of them live in poverty. And they are unlikely to have ever contemplated joining a union.
On a full-time schedule, they could make a little over $18,000 a year, just about enough to keep a family of two parents and one child at the threshold of poverty. But full-time work is hard to come by. With fast-food restaurants increasingly using scheduling software to adjust staffing levels, workers can no longer count on a steady stream of work. Their hours can be cut sharply from one week to the next based on the business outlook or even the weather.
Orley Ashenfelter, a labor economist at Princeton, published a study earlier this year that captured the plight of workers under the Golden Arches in a novel way: measuring pay by the burgers a worker could buy for an hour of work, he calculated that the real wages of McDonald's workers in the United States hit about 2.2 Big Macs an hour last year. That's 15 percent less than in 2000.
Many economists will argue that concern about the lowly McJob is misplaced. These jobs offer a wage to people with no training or education. Mr. Carrillo, for instance, doesn't speak English. ''To get a better job at my age, you need a profession,'' he says. To improve the lives of American workers, most economists argue, we might do better by focusing on education to equip them with the skills to perform more productive, better-paid jobs.
But this argument overlooks the fact that the McJob is hardly a niche of the labor market reserved for the uneducated few. Rather, it might be the biggest job of our future.
The American labor market has been hollowing out for decades -- losing many of the middle-skilled, relatively well-paid jobs in manufacturing that can be performed more cheaply by machines or workers overseas. It has split between a high end of well-educated workers, and a low end of less-educated workers performing jobs, mostly in the service sector, that cannot be outsourced or mechanized.
This process is not expected to reverse any time soon. According to government statistics, personal care aides will make up the fastest-growing occupation this decade. The Economic Policy Institute study found that some 57 percent of them live in poverty.
This poses an existential question for labor unions, which are struggling because of the loss of union jobs to automation and stiff competition, both from cheaper labor in the mostly union-free South and developing nations around the world: can they do something to improve workers' lot?
They have in the past. A recent study by the International Labor Organization concluded that low-wage work was rare where unionization rates were high. In countries where more than half of workers belong to a union, only 12 percent of jobs pay less than two-thirds of the middle wage, on average.
Still, there is little reason to believe that American labor unions can do much to lift the floor on wages in the future. Fewer than 7 percent of workers in the private sector are in a union. We have the largest share of low-paid jobs in the industrial world, amounting to almost one in four full-time workers, according to the International Labor Organization. And our rates of unionization continue to fall.
Union leaders know they are fighting long odds -- hemmed in by legal decisions limiting how they can organize and protest, while trying to organize workers in industries of low skill and high turnover like fast food. But they hope to have come upon a winning strategy, applying some of the tactics that workers used before the Wagner Act created the federal legal right to unionize in 1935.
''We must go back to the strategies of nonviolent disruption of the 1930s,'' suggests Stephen Lerner, a veteran organizer and strategist formerly at the Service Employees International Union, one of the unions behind the fast-food strike. ''You can't successfully organize without large-scale civil disobedience. The law will change when employers say there's too much disruption. We need another system.''
In the 1990s and 2000s, the S.E.I.U. unionized tens of thousands of mostly Latino janitors from Los Angeles to Houston, including thousands of illegal immigrants, who were until then considered impossible to organize because of their legal status. It did so by putting pressure not only on the building maintenance contractors but also on the building owners who hired them, often resorting to bare-knuckle tactics. In 1990, the union asked members to mail their trash to Judd Malkin, the chairman of the company that owned buildings in the Century City complex in Los Angeles, printing his address on garbage bags. Mr. Malkin met Mr. Lerner soon thereafter.
The second part of the S.E.I.U.'s strategy was equally important. Rather than proposing a union contract for janitors as a narrow goal, the S.E.I.U.'s ''Justice for Janitors'' campaign framed the effort as a broad movement for the economic rights of low-wage workers. And the union rallied local politicians, community leaders and civil rights groups to their cause.
If unions alone may be powerless, the thinking goes, they can be powerful as part of a broader social movement. ''We need workers to come together in formations they haven't done before,'' says Mary Kay Henry, who heads the S.E.I.U. ''The tipping point is the entire low-wage economy.''
The odds that organized labor can tip the scales remain long, however. The S.E.I.U. did organize many janitors, but it did not stem the decline of unions across the economy. Despite the victories, janitors in the United States today earn about 10 percent less on average than they did in 1990, in inflation-adjusted terms.
Still, if employers can't be swayed to take on more responsibility for the welfare of their workers, the burden will fall on taxpayers. To put it succinctly, the bottom 40 percent of families earn less than they did almost a quarter of a century ago. If that trend continues, we may need a much bigger government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A protester held up a sign at a demonstration outside McDonald's in Times Square last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS)
 Striking Walmart workers and supporters on Black Friday outside a store in Paramount, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRET HARTMAN/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); FAST FOOD (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); STRIKES (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); STATISTICS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



146 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Professor Who Learns From Peasants

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
DURHAM, Conn. -- The Yale political scientist James C. Scott may share his 46-acre farm in this picturesque hamlet with a flock of laying hens, a pair of Highland cattle and an active honeybee colony. But don't mistake him for your typical Connecticut country squire.
For Mr. Scott, the farm, about 20 miles northeast of New Haven, is both a place to blow off steam and an embodiment of the kind of hands-on, ground-up, local knowledge that he has championed during a career spanning five decades and a string of highly influential and idiosyncratic books.
''I'm as proud of knowing how to shear a sheep as I am of anything,'' Mr. Scott, who turned 76 on Sunday, said during a recent interview in the living room of his rustic 1826 farmhouse, seated across from a pair of rocking chairs draped with skins of home-butchered Montadales. ''I've been a better scholar partly because I've had this other activity.'' 
Mr. Scott's professional accomplishments are certainly considerable, even if the biographical note in his new book, ''Two Cheers for Anarchism,'' cites his status as a ''mediocre'' beekeeper alongside his membership in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is the official founder of Yale's agrarian studies program, as well as an unofficial founder of the field of ''resistance studies,'' in which his book ''Weapons of the Weak'' (1985), a study of peasant resistance based on fieldwork in a Malaysian village, is a kind of Bible.
And his influence stretches far beyond the academic left, thanks to ''Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed'' (1998), a magisterial critique of top-down social planning that has been cited, and debated, by the free-market libertarians of the Cato Institute (which recently dedicated an issue of its online journal to the book), development economists and partisans of Occupy Wall Street alike.
''He's one of the people who has really demonstrated all the unintended bad consequences of people who think they can plan a city or economy or whole society, but he's not ideological about it,'' the conservative political theorist Francis Fukuyama said.
He's also the kind of big thinker (and stylish writer), colleagues say, who has all but disappeared in his field: the last of a breed of wide-angled 20th-century social theorists, going back to Max Weber, to marry the insights of social science to the broad sweep of history, even as he cautions against putting too much faith in theory.
''He marches to his own drum completely,'' said Ian Shapiro, a longtime colleague of Mr. Scott's in the Yale political science department. While most social scientists pick apart problems in previous research, ''Jim always starts with problems in the real world,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''That's why his work launches ships.''
''Two Cheers,'' published by Princeton University Press, is a skiff of a book by Mr. Scott's usual dreadnought standards, weighing in at a mere 149 pages, footnotes included. It is both a departure and a summing up, reprising the themes of his earlier books in a series of 29 playful, often highly personal ''fragments,'' making a case for what he calls ''the anarchist squint.''
To most Americans the term anarchism probably invokes bomb-throwing radicals. But seen through Mr. Scott's squint, anarchist principles are in action all around us, whether in jaywalking, the anti-SAT movement or assembly-line slowdowns -- all examples, he contends, of everyday resistance to the rule of technocratic elites.
''Unlike the anarchists, I don't believe the state will ever be abolished,'' he said in the interview. ''It's a matter of taming it'' -- through the kind of lawbreaking and disruption, he argues, that have always been crucial to democratic political change.
The guarantees of equality in the Declaration of the Rights of Man or the Civil Rights Act, he continued, are ''achievements of the state, but they are the achievements of the state with a pistol at its temple.''
Mr. Scott's book arrives at a moment when the Occupy movement has brought anarchist thought closer to the American political mainstream than it has been in decades (and, some on the left have argued, has come undone because of its fetishization of utopian principle at the expense of real-world politics). He says he admires the movement's ''spontaneity,'' but not everyone in its ranks is returning the love.
The left-wing writer Malcolm Harris, in The Los Angeles Review of Books, blasted Mr. Scott as a closet liberal in ''anarchish'' clothing, espousing a vision that's ''one part Bush Administration 'ownership society,' one part Apple 'think different.' '' Fortune.com, on the other hand, praised him for offering lessons in power and subversion useful to ''leaders or managers'' bent on ''creative destruction.''
Mr. Scott, who calls himself a ''crude Marxist'' but defends family business and other ''small property'' as important buffers against state power, laughed heartily at the notion of hitting the management-guru circuit. A doctor's son educated at Quaker schools outside Philadelphia, he said he began scholarly life as a fairly standard ''left-wing professor.''
As a newly minted Ph.D. teaching at the University of Wisconsin in the early 1970s, he was active in the antiwar movement but soon realized -- ''if I do say so, more quickly than some of my friends,'' he notes -- that wars of national liberation often led to much more oppressive governments. ''I began to think that if revolution doesn't work for peasants, maybe there's not that much to say for it,'' he said.
In the late 1970s Mr. Scott took his family to a Malaysian village for two years of fieldwork, despite colleagues' warnings that it would be a ''career-killing'' move for a political scientist. The result was ''Weapons of the Weak,'' which (along with a follow-up, ''Domination and the Arts of Resistance'') explored the ways peasants and other powerless people used evasion and subterfuge, rather than direct confrontation, to thwart efforts at centralized state control.
''Seeing Like a State,'' published a decade later, looked at the limitations of state power from the other end, examining -- through examples as diverse as 18th-century German scientific forestry and ''villagization'' in 1970s Tanzania -- the way that ''high modernist'' social engineering doomed itself by ignoring local custom and practical knowledge, which Mr. Scott, borrowing the classical Greek word for wisdom, calls ''metis.''
Mr. Scott has also been a longstanding critic of what he sees as the overconfident hyper-rationalism of political science itself, which has sacrificed its own kind of metis in favor of statistical analysis and abstract, immutable laws of political behavior. These days he's flattered to be so often misidentified as an anthropologist.
''An anthropologist goes in and tries to have as few prejudices as possible and be as open as possible to where the world leads you,'' he said, ''whereas a political scientist would go in with a questionnaire.''
Mr. Scott has no idea what his academic colleagues will make of his quirky new book. But he said he'd always been less concerned with ''defending turf,'' as he puts it, than with moving on to wherever curiosity leads him. For now, that includes learning Burmese, teaching a seminar on the politics and ecology of rivers, and researching a new book on the ''deep history'' of plant and animal domestication.
''I just love raising animals,'' he said before inviting a departing visitor to pluck a dozen freshly laid eggs from his ramshackle chicken coop. ''It's good to have something that requires your body and leaves your mind alone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Yale political scientist James C. Scott performing his morning chores at his farm in Durham, Conn. (C1)
 JAMES C. SCOTT: Political scientist at Yale and author of ''Two Cheers for Anarchism'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (91%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); APICULTURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WRITERS (70%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (68%); RELIGION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



147 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: In a Fitful Recovery, Republicans Balk at Obama's Short-Term Stimulus

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republicans and Democrats are struggling to find common ground on a long-term debt deal. But as economic growth has weakened this quarter, they are at odds over what the flagging recovery needs in the immediate future, too.
The Obama administration is arguing that the sluggish economy requires a shot in the arm, and it included tens of billions of dollars of little-noticed stimulus measures in its much-noticed proposal to Congressional leaders last week. But Republicans have countered that the country cannot afford to widen the deficit further, and have balked at including the measures in any eventual deal. 
The stimulus measures in the White House's debt proposal stem from President Obama's long-since-scuttled American Jobs Act proposal, and include a continuation of emergency support for long-term unemployed workers, an extension of the payroll tax cut, billions in infrastructure investment and a mortgage refinancing proposal.
''We have a very good plan, a very good mix of tax reforms'' and savings, said Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, on ABC News last weekend. ''We can create some room to invest in things that make America stronger, like rebuilding America's infrastructure.''
But in his counteroffer, made on Monday, House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio did not mention any such measures. Republican aides said that securing stimulus was not the main priority given concerns about the country's fiscal state, and they appeared to be holding back on supporting any stimulus measures to bolster their bargaining position.
''The president is asking for $1.6 trillion worth of new revenue over 10 years, twice as much as he has been asking for in public,'' Mr. Boehner said on ''Fox News Sunday.'' ''He has stimulus spending in here that exceeded the amount of new cuts that he was willing to consider. It was not a serious offer.''
As the debate rages in Washington, data has shown the recovery once again sputtering, with the underlying rate of growth too slow to bring down the unemployment rate by much and some of the economic momentum gained in the fall dissipating in the winter.
The weakness comes from the manufacturing and exports slowdown, disruptions from Hurricane Sandy and sluggish underlying wage and spending growth. The storm hit the economic juggernauts of New Jersey and New York hard, pushing down work and wages.
On top of that, consumers and businesses might be holding back out of concern for the tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take place at the first of the year unless Congress and the administration come to some agreement.
In recent weeks, many forecasters have slashed their estimates of growth in the fourth quarter. Macroeconomic Advisers, for instance, estimates the economy is expanding at only a 0.8 percent annual pace, down from 2.8 percent in the third quarter.
''It's a pretty dramatic slowdown,'' said Joel Prakken, the chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, the St. Louis-based forecasting firm. ''There's weak demand, which just does not portend well for the coming quarters,'' he said.
RBC Capital Markets put the current pace of growth at just a 0.2 percent annual rate. The chance of seeing ''a negative sign in front of fourth-quarter gross domestic product is nontrivial, to say the least,'' Tom Porcelli, chief United States economist at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients last week.
If Congress and the Obama administration are able to agree on a budget deal, economists expect that economic growth will pick up in 2013. Stock markets might cheer, businesses might feel more confident about hiring workers and signing contracts and investors might feel more comfortable investing if Congress struck a deal.
The turnaround in the housing market, rising auto sales and higher consumer confidence all bode well, they note. Refinancing -- supported by the Federal Reserve's effort to buy mortgage-backed securities -- would also flush more money into households.
Much of the current slowdown might be a result of temporary factors that might fade away, like fluctuations in how factories stock their inventories or the lingering effects of the hurricane.
Still, recent economic data has come in surprisingly weak. On Monday, the Institute for Supply Management reported that the manufacturing sector contracted in November, with an index of purchasing activity falling to the lowest level since mid-2009.
The report said manufacturers expressed ''concern over how and when the fiscal cliff issue will be resolved'' as well as a slowdown in demand.
Over all, unemployment remains high, and wage growth weak. Global growth has gone through a slowdown as well. It all adds up to a United States recovery that might remain vulnerable to shocks -- like the Midwestern drought that slashed agricultural production this year, or the Japanese tsunami that depressed exports in 2011, or the long-simmering European debt crisis that has spooked financial markets -- for years to come.
Economists remain nervous about the combination of the already weak recovery and the prospect of the tax increases and spending cuts -- with billions of dollars of fiscal contraction likely to occur even if the White House and Congress reach a deal.
''We are worried about going too fast, too quick on the cuts side,'' said former Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, on Monday at a meeting with reporters at the Bipartisan Policy Center. He was presenting a plan for a deficit reduction framework along with Alice M. Rivlin, the budget director under President Bill Clinton.
Ms. Rivlin added, ''We don't need an austerity budget.'' Indeed, the two budget experts proposed including a one-year income tax rebate to give the recovery some breathing room.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renee Orriz works at Walker Components assembling cables for wind turbines. A third of the workers have been laid off in 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENNAN LINSLEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Hurricane Sandy damaged South Street Seaport in Lower Manhattan and the region's economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US AMERICAN JOBS ACT OF 2011 (77%); INFLATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); TAX REFORM (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



148 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Polling: Pessimism About a Deal

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
Public opinion about the pending fiscal crisis has not changed in the past three weeks, according to the latest national survey conducted by the Pew Research Center and The Washington Post. 
As lawmakers in Washington appear far apart in negotiations that would prevent the automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled for Jan. 1, many still doubt that an agreement will be reached.
Forty percent expect that President Obama and Congressional Republicans will reach a settlement by the end of the year and 49 percent do not think they will. If there is no deal, 53 percent will hold the Republicans in Congress responsible; 27 percent said they will blame Mr. Obama.
These opinions are essentially the same as seen in the poll conducted by Pew and The Post earlier last month.
Democrats continue to be much more hopeful about an agreement than Republicans or independents. A majority (55 percent) of Democrats expect that Mr. Obama and Congressional Republicans will compromise in order to avoid the "fiscal cliff" before Jan. 1; only 37 percent of independents and 22 percent of Republicans agree.
While few Americans say they have a good understanding of what would happen if Mr. Obama and the Republicans do not come to an agreement, the public continues to expect the outcome to have serious consequences - for the nation's economy and for their own financial well-being.
About two-thirds say the national economy will be greatly affected, and most of them expect the results to be harmful. Fewer, about two-fifths, say their own economic welfare would be impacted by the automatic taxes and cuts, but most of them also anticipate a negative outcome.
The telephone survey was conducted Nov. 29 to Dec. 2 with 1,003 adults using landlines and cellphones. The margin of sampling error for all adults is plus or minus 4 percentage points; it is larger for subgroups.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



149 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Governors Urge Obama To Find a Solution

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
A half-dozen governors emerged from meeting with President Obama on Tuesday to publicly urge him and Congress to resolve the pending fiscal crisis as soon as possible because the uncertainty, as one put it, "is creating havoc." 
"You've got to come together and get this done," said Gov. Gary Herbert of Utah, a Republican. "This impacts the economy."
Mr. Obama hosted the six governors, three Democrats and three Republicans, to discuss plans for dealing with the automatic tax increases and spending cuts due to take effect in the new year. The states have almost as much at stake because so many of them rely on federal money for their programs.
The president assured the visiting governors that they would "have a seat at the table," according to Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware, a Democrat and chairman of the National Governors Association. Mr. Obama assigned Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to be their point of contact in the White House and the governors promised to communicate ideas about how to approach the crisis.
Several of the governors told reporters outside the White House that they understood states would have to share in the sacrifice but they urged the president and Congress to give them more flexibility in how they run their programs if federal funds were going to shrink. The governors said they would not as a group endorse any of the specific tax-and-spending plans put forward in recent days by Mr. Obama and House Republicans.
For many of the governors, time is of the essence because they are busy putting together their own state budget proposals now for unveiling in January or February. Without knowing how the federal government will act, they could veer between surplus and deficit in short order. "We have decisions that we have to make," said Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, a Republican and the association's vice chairman.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MARY FALLIN (58%); GARY HERBERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



150 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Governors Urge Obama To Find a Solution

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
A half-dozen governors met with President Obama on Tuesday to publicly urge him and Congress to resolve the pending fiscal crisis as soon as possible because the uncertainty, as one put it, ''is creating havoc.'' 
''You've got to come together and get this done,'' said Gov. Gary R. Herbert of Utah, a Republican. ''This impacts the economy.''
Mr. Obama hosted the six governors, three Democrats and three Republicans, to discuss plans for dealing with the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would take effect on Jan. 1 if an accord is not reached. The states have much at stake because many of them rely on federal money for their programs.
The president assured the visiting governors, below, that they would ''have a seat at the table,'' according to Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware, a Democrat and the chairman of the National Governors Association. Mr. Obama assigned Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to be their point of contact in the White House, and the governors promised to communicate ideas about how to approach the crisis.
Several of the governors told reporters outside the White House that they understood the states would have to share in the sacrifice, but they urged the president and Congress to give them more flexibility in how they run their programs if federal support was going to shrink. The governors said they would not as a group endorse any of the specific plans put forward in recent days by Mr. Obama and House Republicans.
For many of the governors, time is of the essence because they are busy putting together their own state budget proposals. Without knowing how the federal government will act, they could veer between surplus and deficit in short order.
''We have decisions that we have to make,'' said Gov. Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, a Republican and the association's vice chairwoman.
PETER BAKER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MARY FALLIN (58%); GARY HERBERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



151 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Deal Allows Company to Continue Niagara Boat Tours

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
The boats of the Maid of the Mist, the longtime tour operator in Niagara Falls, N.Y., that was threatened with closing, will continue to ply the waters of the Niagara Gorge under an agreement announced on Tuesday by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. 
The tour company, which has been operating since the 1840s and has been owned by a local family since 1971, faced an uncertain future after losing its contract to run tours on the Canadian side of the falls. In February, the Ontario government awarded the operation to a California company. That cost the Maid of the Mist Corporation more than half its annual revenue; it also meant the company lost access to its winter boat storage and fueling area on Canadian land it had long leased from the Ontario government.
The company would have been hard-pressed to continue, since there is currently no place on the New York side of the river to store boats, and the relatively calm waters where the tours swing close to the majestic waterfalls are constrained by steep cliffs, rough rapids and the falls themselves.
But in a memorandum of understanding signed by the Maid of the Mist Corporation, the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation and the New York Power Authority, the company will invest $32 million in the former Schoellkopf Power Station, just minutes from the falls, and adapt the site for boat storage. The money will also go toward public amenities and recreation. The work is expected to be completed before the company loses access to the Canadian storage area in spring 2014, and the state parks office will own the new storage site.
The company will also increase its license payments to New York State, which will total $105 million over the 30 years remaining on the Maid of the Mist's amended contract. That is three times as much as the revenue projected for the 30-year period when the contract was first approved in 2002.
Christopher M. Glynn, president of the Maid of the Mist Corporation, said the deal would ''allow us to continue these unparalleled boat tours in the years ahead.''
Mr. Cuomo said the agreement would ensure that the boat tours continued to bring ''great value to the region's tourism and economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); STATE PARKS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



152 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: The Rice Question

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
London
WHEN Thomas Pickering took up the No.3 position at the U.S. State Department in 1997, his attention turned to Sudan. The U.S. Embassy in Khartoum had been vacated the previous year after the C.I.A. reported threats, but Pickering wanted the mission reopened in a country that had harbored Osama bin Laden until May 1996 and had more experience than most with violent Islamist extremism.
''The intelligence reports that prompted the closure of the embassy were false and I felt strongly that the embassy should be reopened,'' Pickering, who has served as ambassador to Nigeria, Israel, India, Russia and the United Nations, told me. ''But Susan Rice and Sandy Berger felt strongly it should remain closed and so it did not get reopened for a long while.''
Rice, now U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and a leading candidate along with Senator John Kerry to become the next secretary of state, was then assistant secretary for African affairs. She had strong views about Sudan and plenty of reasons to hold them: a terror-sponsoring Sudanese government playing host to anti-American Islamist radicals and engaged in a brutal war with its own citizens in the south. 
But while under no illusions about the Sudanese government, Pickering, then under secretary of state for political affairs, saw an opportunity to probe possible shifts in Khartoum. ''My view was that we needed to be in contact with governments around the world whatever their characters, and we might change Sudan's attitude through being there,'' he said. ''Susan took a different view.''
Today we are at a crucial juncture for American power. President Obama's priority in preserving U.S. influence in the world must be domestic: reviving the economy. He needs a secretary of state able to chart her or his own course at times, with a team-of-rivals independence, and the ability to talk to enemies -- Iran being top of that list.
Susan Rice is certainly capable and tough. One person who has spent a lot of time with Rice is struck by her ''bristling certitude.'' A former U.S. ambassador told me, ''Rice does not know how to be unblunt.'' But it is her judgment at critical moments -- as displayed on whether to reopen the Sudan embassy or in her handling of the talking points on the killing of the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three other Americans -- that troubles me.
Of course, the ultimate decision on returning U.S. diplomats to Khartoum in 1997 did not lie with Rice. Samuel R. Berger, as national security adviser to President Clinton, had more clout. Still, as the State Department's point person on Africa, her opinion had weight.
Rice's thinking at the time, as described to me by several officials, ran like this: Reopening the U.S. Embassy would have been interpreted by the Sudanese as a reward for good behavior. The United States, she felt, could not send that signal to a country on the terrorist list and involved in the worst human rights abuses. Moreover, nothing she saw at the time suggested that the Sudanese offers of intelligence assistance were serious.
What difference a U.S. decision to engage with Khartoum would have made to intelligence gathering on Al Qaeda, preventing the August 1998 bombing of the U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, averting the mistaken 1998 U.S. cruise-missile attack on a pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum, and blocking the path to 9/11 is unclear.
On one particular issue -- whether in 1996 (when Rice was a senior director for Africa at the National Security Council) Sudan offered to hand over Bin Laden -- the 9/11 Commission Report ''found no credible evidence that this was so.''
''Ambassador Rice believes that it is far better to have a diplomatic presence than not,'' her spokeswoman, Erin Pelton, said in an e-mail message. ''Thus her inherent predisposition is to try to reopen embassies as soon as possible. However, when the U.S. is dealing with countries that are state sponsors of terrorism, that decision cannot be made without regard to the policy signal it sends.''
Tim Carney, the ambassador to Sudan at the time, had to leave the country in early 1996 when the embassy was vacated. He believes that the decision not to reopen the following year was disastrous.
''We took our eye off the ball,'' he told me. ''We did not know what was happening in Khartoum, a center of extremist Islam. There was no logic to our policy beyond punishing Khartoum and supporting the rebellion in south Sudan. That the Sudanese could not ensure our security was complete and utter nonsense. In my experience, Rice failed in her judgment. Our interests suffered.''
Pickering was in general impressed with Rice, a woman of strong ideas navigating an effective course in many areas of African policy, including Ethiopia and Eritrea. It was only on Sudan, he said, that ''we disagreed, and I was not happy.''
Rice, as Sudan suggests, is decisive: She joined the Obama team early in his first campaign when other foreign policy heavyweights backed Hillary Clinton. She is known to be very close to the president. He has made clear that he is prepared to spend significant political capital to defend her if he nominates her for secretary of state. During the first term, foreign policy was very White House-centered. If Obama plans a similar second-term set-up, Rice would be a natural fit.
Over the years I have heard Rice, whom I once met briefly, described as smart, loyal, earnest, combative, certain of her views and not particularly worldly. Her convictions on human rights, shaped through the Rwandan genocide that in turn influenced her views on south Sudan, are passionate.
She famously clashed with the late Richard Holbrooke (and successfully helped keep him from Obama's inner circle); an attempt at a reconciliatory breakfast ended with him giving her his private cellphone number without the gesture being reciprocated.
One senior Obama administration official who was very close to Holbrooke and so, in her words, ''got off on the wrong foot with Rice,'' has become a great admirer. Rice, she argues, has done great things at the United Nations.
''The notion that she is a walkover for Obama is just nonsense,'' she told me.
According to this official's account, Rice was the ''only cabinet member arguing for what we ended up doing in Libya'' -- a military intervention, backed by a strong U.N. resolution Rice managed to secure, that saved Benghazi and ended with the ousting of Muammar el-Qaddafi.
''She knows how to transcend the limits of American power by knowing the limits of American power,'' the official said. ''She uses all the tools in the toolbox. When the cry goes up in a crisis, 'Save the peacekeepers,' she says, 'No, save the people!'''
Rice has been the object of egregious Republican attacks over her now notorious Benghazi television interviews on Sept. 16. Their attempt to portray her covering up a supposedly premeditated terrorist attack that left four Americans dead does not hold up. My understanding is there is no evidence of premeditation -- as in advance planning -- or even that the attackers knew that Ambassador Chris Stevens, who happened to be visiting Benghazi, was there. The charged Al Qaeda epithet has been loosely thrown around for a local militant group called Ansar al-Shariah.
Still, Rice's performance raises questions. If the C.I.A. was the main editor of her talking points, and that editing involved the last-minute removal of references to Ansar al-Shariah for fear of tipping them off, would it not have been wise to avoid alluding to the killings as a ''horrific incident where some mob was hijacked ultimately by a handful of extremists'' -- as she said on CNN? And if the C.I.A. knew that two of its own had been killed, why did Rice tell ABC News that ''two of the four Americans who were killed were there providing security''?
We now know, thanks to reporting by David Ignatius of The Washington Post among others, that the two C.I.A. agents, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty, were killed with mortar fire a full six hours after Stevens in a separate Benghazi location. By the time Rice went on TV, five days had elapsed since the killings, and the C.I.A. had done extensive debriefing.
Why then did Rice not step back, ask questions and hedge her talking points rather than plunge ahead with an account of a spontaneous reaction by ''folks in Benghazi,'' like the one in Cairo, to the anti-Muhammad video? As is now clear, the demonstration never happened.
Stevens is mentioned just once in the various Rice interviews. The killing becomes an almost abstract ''violence'' committed by ''extremists.'' The video is ''hateful,'' ''heinous,'' ''disgusting,'' ''offensive'' and ''reprehensible.'' The killing of four Americans is ''condemnable,'' ''unacceptable,'' ''reprehensible'' and ''horrific.''
Somewhere in all those adjectives the distinction on the scales of iniquity between mischief and murder is lost.
The U.S. secretary of state needs several skills: leadership, strategic vision, an inner compass, knowledge of the world and judgment. The most effective secretaries -- Dean Acheson, Henry Kissinger, George Shultz and James Baker come to mind -- have served their presidents, of course, but were also shapers and clinchers of policy.
The recent precedent of Colin Powell's reluctant support for the Iraq war shows how important it can be for the secretary to stand up to the White House -- even to the point of resignation, as Cyrus Vance did in 1980 over a disagreement with Jimmy Carter.
In diplomacy the core question is often this: What do I want to get and what do I have to give to get it? Certitudes and bluntness get you only so far. It is less a question of what you know than how curious you are about what you do not.
Susan Rice's story includes several significant achievements. But, from Khartoum to Benghazi, it has been more one of knowing than asking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: SUSAN RICE (89%); JOHN KERRY (76%); BILL CLINTON (69%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



153 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: As Budget Talks Continue, Markets Change Little

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks closed little changed Tuesday on Wall Street as budget talks continued in Washington.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 13.82 points, or 0.11 percent, at 12,951.78 after trading in a range of 82 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.41 points, or 0.17 percent, at 1,407.05. The Nasdaq composite index was down 5.51 points, or 0.18 percent, at 2,996.69. 
Investors are waiting for developments on the budget talks, which are aimed at avoiding the government spending cuts and tax increases that would begin to arrive Jan. 1 and could eventually cause a recession.
President Obama said Tuesday that a proposal released on Monday by the House speaker, John Boehner, was ''still out of balance.'' Mr. Obama, in an interview with Bloomberg Television, insisted on higher taxes for wealthy Americans.
Republicans, led by Mr. Boehner, have balked at Mr. Obama's proposal of $1.6 trillion in additional taxes over a decade, and called on Monday for increasing the Medicare eligibility age and lowering cost-of-living increases for Social Security benefits.
Among stocks making big moves, Darden Restaurants, owner of the Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant chains, fell $5.02, or 9.6 percent, to $47.40 after cutting its profit forecast for fiscal 2013.
Stock trading will probably become more volatile the longer talks go without a deal, J. J. Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist at TD Ameritrade, said.
Despite the lack of progress, the stock market has gained back nearly all of a postelection slide caused by concerns about the fiscal impasse.
The S.& P. is now about 1.5 percent below its level on Nov. 6. In mid-November it was down as much as 5 percent.
Bill Gross, the managing director of the fund manager Pimco, told investors that they should expect annualized bond returns of 3 to 4 percent in the future and stock returns that are ''only a few percentage points higher.''
The S.& P. 500 has risen 12 percent this year. High debt and slowing global growth will weigh on the economy, Mr. Gross said.
Interest rates were flat. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 100 6/32 and the yield slipped to 1.60 percent from 1.62 percent late Monday.
Among other stocks making big moves, Big Lots, the discount retailer, gained $3.23, or 11.5 percent, to $31.27 after raising its full-year earnings forecast and reported a loss that was not as bad as analysts had expected.
Pep Boys fell $1.11, or 10.4 percent, to $9.57 after posting a loss on weak sales and rising costs at its auto stores.
MetroPCS fell 81 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $9.96 after Reuters reported that Sprint is not considering making a counteroffer for the cellphone business. MetroPCS and T-Mobile said in October that they had agreed to combine their businesses.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BONDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); MEDICARE (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (65%); DEBT NOTES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (63%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (54%); METROPCS COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (83%); AMTD (NYSE) (54%); PCS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); JOHN BOEHNER (69%); BILL GROSS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



154 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Conflict Is Issue In a Pension Suit

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Can a judge rule impartially on pension cuts when her mother, her son, her uncle and even she herself all have a stake in preserving the status quo?
In Rhode Island, the site of a sweeping pension overhaul last year, a prominent New York lawyer is seeking to help litigate the question: David Boies, perhaps best known for representing Al Gore in the fight over the 2000 presidential election and for waging an antitrust battle against Microsoft on behalf of the government in the 1990s.
Rhode Island's dispute may not reach quite those dramatic heights, but it is being closely watched as a first major test of whether, and how, financially strained states and cities can cut the benefits of their workers and retirees.
Several public employee unions have sued Gov. Lincoln Chafee and other Rhode Island officials, accusing them of acting illegally when they pushed through a package of money-saving pension cuts last year, including suspending annual cost-of-living increases for most retirees. The unions want the richer benefits restored. 
Their five pension lawsuits were assigned to Judge Sarah Taft-Carter of the state Superior Court, who has handled public pension cases before and handed a big victory to the unions in one recent case. Mr. Boies, who at $50 an hour is working for a small fraction of his ordinary fee, is seeking a less conflicted judge, and could even ask to move the case into federal court.
The case has raised questions and strong feelings about the overhaul in Rhode Island, a state so small that it seems as if nearly everybody has friends or family in the pension system. Could the judge see beyond the harsh effects on her own family?
When the subject came up in a hearing in October, Judge Taft-Carter acknowledged that her son, a state trooper, was earning a pension, and her mother, the widow of a mayor, was already receiving one. (The uncle's pension came to light only later.)
She said she had researched the matter, sought advice from a judicial ethics board and concluded that her relatives' interests ''will not reasonably impact my ability to be impartial.''
Her son joined the state patrol just three years ago, she said, so calculating his pension ''requires a large degree of speculation and assumption.'' Her mother's pension was too small to be a factor, she said. (Court papers put it at about $22,000 a year.)
And while the overhaul means the judge's pension will be smaller despite having to contribute more, she said that was true of all judges in the state: ''If my financial interest should require disqualification, then all other state judges would be similarly required to recuse themselves.''
Mr. Boies has requested permission to practice in Rhode Island, so that he can argue for Judge Taft-Carter's removal. He is expected to appear in court on Friday and cite the state's judicial code of conduct, which requires judges to recuse themselves when their spouses, parents or children have an economic stake in the litigation before them.
There is an exception if the stake is ''de minimus,'' or insignificantly small.
The state's Supreme Court justices, who have been asked for a review, are also members of the state pension system.
In an interview, Mr. Boies said that challenging Judge Taft-Carter's impartiality was just ''the first step,'' and the bigger issue was whether any judges in Rhode Island could handle the case, given their personal stakes. Companies routinely have their pension disputes decided by federal courts, which grant more leeway in changing pension plans.
''The plaintiffs brought this case the way they did to try to avoid federal jurisdiction,'' Mr. Boies said.
Whatever the outcome of the hearing, Mr. Boies said he would continue to represent the Employees' Retirement System of Rhode Island and its board members until all of the lawsuits and appeals were decided.
Mr. Boies, whose standard fee is $1,250 an hour, said $50 an hour was ''the same fee that I charged the United States when I represented the Department of Justice in the Microsoft case.''
Mr. Boies became involved, he said, because he was convinced that Rhode Island's pension troubles were just the tip of a $5 trillion iceberg of unsecured retirement promises to the nation's millions of public workers. ''This is something that can cripple state and municipal governments at a time when the federal government is, more and more, cutting back on the services it provides,'' he said.
Public employee unions, in Rhode Island and elsewhere, argue that people like Mr. Boies are exaggerating the size of America's total public pension shortfall.
The fundamental question in the lawsuits is whether Rhode Island can renege on promises to public workers. The unions say it cannot, citing language in the state constitution forbidding the abrogation of contracts.
The state argues that its pension system was created by statute, not by contract, and statutes can lawfully be amended. In a previous suit, Judge Taft-Carter agreed with the unions that the pension system was an implied contract between the state and its workers.
Mr. Boies disagrees. ''There's no contract,'' he said. ''Even if there was a contract, the state, pursuing the public interest, has the right to modify contracts.''
Cities, states and their lawyers around the country are following the case avidly, said Amy B. Monahan, a law professor at the University of Minnesota who has written extensively on legal aspects of employee benefits. Many are wondering whether their own pension systems are sustainable, she said, and if not, how to make them so.
Rhode Island enacted its pension overhaul at the urging of its state treasurer, Gina Raimondo, a Democrat. She and Governor Chafee, a Republican turned independent, persuaded lawmakers to approve a package that included increases in the official retirement age, a sharp decrease in the ''defined benefit'' portion of the plan, and the suspension of the typical 3 percent cost-of-living allowances for retirees.
Judge Taft-Carter's mother's situation shows what's at stake. Her retirement benefit consists of a $900-a-month base pension, plus an extra $984.39 a month, from the compounded 3 percent annual adjustments.
The pension overhaul does not roll back the clock to the $900-a-month benefit; rather, it freezes each retiree's pension at the current level -- $1,884.39 in this case -- for a recovery period that could take as long as 20 years.
Rhode Island's effort is ''the clearest example of fundamental pension reform that we have right now,'' Ms. Monahan said. ''Even though whatever Rhode Island decides doesn't serve as actual precedent for other states, other states and cities still want to know if it can work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judge Sarah Taft-Carter of Rhode Island's Superior Court is hearing the pension cases. Gov. Lincoln Chafee, center, is working with the lawyer David Boies, right, pushing for cuts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB BREIDENBACH/THE PROVIDENCE JOURNAL
RYAN CONATY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ERIC RISBERG) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ETHICS (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LEGAL VENUE (78%); JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: LINCOLN CHAFEE (72%); AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012



155 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup to Cut 11,000 Jobs and Take $1 Billion Charge

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Citigroup announced on Wednesday that it would cut 11,000 jobs, reducing its work force by roughly 4 percent, as the bank moved to sharply reduce its expenses. 

 BODY:
 8:04 p.m. | Updated 
Citigroup's announcement that it will slash 11,000 jobs worldwide underscores its major contraction since nearly collapsing during the financial crisis and its continuing battle against high operating costs and persistently sluggish markets.
The cost-cutting fervor, including tens of thousands of Wall Street jobs slashed in recent years, is expected to continue at Citigroup and other banks as they combat sagging stock prices, lackluster revenue and new regulations that damp profits. 
The cuts at Citigroup, many coming from its global consumer banking business, reflect a new emphasis on aiming at commercial banking jobs, some bank analysts said, rather than mainly eliminating investment banking positions.
 With pressure mounting from shareholders, Citi has been trying to bolster returns, in part by working through a glut of bad loans and systematically dismantling some businesses. The job cuts amount to 4 percent of the work force and will bring the company's head count down to about 250,000, down by a third since before the financial crisis in 2007.
The bank's shares increased more than 6 percent on Wednesday.
The moves, the first since Michael O'Neill, the bank chairman, abruptly deposed Vikram S. Pandit as chief executive and replaced him with Michael L. Corbat, were seen as another retrenchment from Citi's former position as a financial megamarket in the United States and around the world. But the announcement did not signal a new strategy or direction for the nation's third-biggest bank by assets.
"Ultimately, it misses the point," said Michael Mayo, an analyst at Crédit Agricole Securities. "They need a more radical restructuring."
Since the abrupt power change in October, which sent shock waves across Wall Street and left some within the bank rankled by the brutal transition, there has been unease throughout the upper ranks of Citigroup, according to several people close to the bank.
Much of that wariness stemmed from a concern that Mr. O'Neill would work through the new chief executive to impose an unflinching round of cuts that further pare down the bank, according to these people.
A career banker and Marine, Mr. O'Neill had tussled with Mr. Pandit over the lack of speed in trimming costs after taking the helm of the board in 2009, according to several people close to the board.
The latest cuts come after exhaustive meetings in November that convened nearly every head of the bank's businesses at Citigroup's Park Avenue headquarters in New York, according to several senior executives at the bank. During the meetings, which lasted for three days, Mr. Corbat demanded that each head of the business units justify the costs associated with their operations.
Earlier this week, Mr. Corbat briefed the board, which has been very vocal about its desire for a leaner Citi, according to several executives at Citi.
"These actions are logical next steps in Citi's transformation," Mr. Corbat said in a statement. "While we are committed to - and our strategy continues to leverage - our unparalleled global network and footprint, we have identified areas and products where our scale does not provide for meaningful returns."
At a financial services conference Wednesday, John Gerspach, the bank's chief financial officer, described the downsizing as "part of a continuum."
Citigroup joins other banks that are scaling back their international and domestic operations as they struggle to compete in a perilous global economy, like the Swiss bank UBS and the British bank HSBC. Bank of America is in the process of slashing 30,000 jobs companywide. As part of the slimdown, Bank of America said it was shedding 750 branches.
Citi's global consumer banking business took the hardest hit on Wednesday, with the bank saying it will eliminate 6,200 positions and close 84 branches worldwide, including in Brazil, Hungary and South Korea, with 44 closings in the United States. Citi will vastly reduce its footprint in some countries and leave five others entirely, including Turkey and Pakistan.
An additional 1,900 jobs will be removed from Citi's capital markets and transaction processing units. An estimated 2,600 jobs will be cut from its back office operations as well.
The changes will result in a charge of about $1 billion in the fourth quarter, but are expected to save the bank $900 million next year and $1.1 billion annually starting in 2014, the company said.
Such draconian job cuts will continue, the analysts said, as banks try to wring more profits from simple lending and retail banking operations, particularly because once-major moneymakers like complex derivatives are restricted by regulation.
Wall Street has been sloughing off jobs by the thousands since the financial crisis, with major banks announcing reductions of more than 150,000 jobs since the start of 2011, according to Richard Stein, a senior partner in the financial services practice at Caldwell Partners.
For New York, the cost-cutting could have profound financial ripple effects. Already, jobs in the securities industry within New York have fallen more than 15 percent from their 2007 peak of 213,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. New York, where Citi currently employs an estimated 22,000 people, will lose about 1,700 positions in Wednesday's announcement.
Even the top echelons of Wall Street are at risk, some people within the industry said.
"You are going to see more senior level cuts in the next wave," Mr. Stein said.
In recent years, Citi has limped toward profitability, after nearly toppling during the financial crisis and receiving a $45 billion lifeline from the federal government. Since then, the bank has been sharply reducing its expenses and trying to shed even more troubled assets.
But those efforts have been dogged by missteps and turmoil. In March, for example, the Federal Reserve dealt a stunning blow to Citigroup when it scuttled the bank's plans to raise its dividend or increase share buybacks. Shortly afterward in April, the bank's shareholders, in a rare move, voted against a $15 million pay package for Mr. Pandit.
Alone, Wednesday's moves are not enough, some banking analysts said. Although Citi has an expansive international banking presence that dwarfs its rivals, it has failed to capitalize on that, Mr. Mayo said.
The bank is distracted, analysts said, by inefficient relationships within its corporate client divisions where, at times, many bankers approach the same clients with advice on deals and loan pitches.
The cuts sought to eliminate some of those overlapping relationships.

        
Credit Suisse Said to Cut Investment Bank Jobs in Britain
        
Court Allows Liquidation of Hostess

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%) Citigroup Inc; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); ACA (PAR) (54%); ACA (BIT) (54%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



156 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Steps Up Investments in Overlooked Tech Start-Ups

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Because segments considered critical to transforming Brazil's economy have fallen by the wayside, the country has doubled down on its goal of promoting technology growth. 

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO - For the last few years, Brazilian start-ups have begun to successfully draw blue-chip Silicon Valley venture firms. But in the process, promising technology segments have been ignored.
Although private firms are readily investing in e-commerce and other hot areas, fields like nanotechnology, robotics and information technology - considered critical to transforming Brazil's commodity-export, consumption-dependent economy - are falling by the wayside.
Rather than leave innovation financing solely to private investment firms, Brazilian officials decided several years ago to step in and shepherd nascent companies. And in 2007, Brazil's national development bank, BNDES, started Criatec I, a 10-year venture capital fund of 100 million reais, or about $48 million, aimed at start-ups. Foreign venture capital firms have been welcome to make follow-on investments. To date, not one has.
Instead, Brazil has doubled down on its goal of promoting technology growth. This week, the bank awarded a new fund of 186 million reais, or $89 million, to Icone Investments. BNDES is providing most of the capital, with contributions from regional public banks. 
Though the government has been taking the lead, it has not been for a lack of interest from private venture capital. Over the last two years, Redpoint Ventures, Accel Partners and Sequoia have become active here, as have Peter Thiel, Dave McClure and European and Israeli investors. But BNDES believes a huge void remains in early-stage financing.
"They are voraciously investing in all the paste-and-copy stuff, the copycats. They are not really into technology innovation," said Robert E. Binder, whose private firm, Antera Resource Management, comanages the initial Criatec fund with São Paulo-based Inseed Investments.
Innovation is an urgent matter in Brazil, economists say. According to the Research Institute for Industrial Development, this year through September, the country ran a $38.7 billion trade deficit in technology-intensive goods, an increase from last year. Brazil's economy is highly vulnerable to global economic uncertainty, which is reflected in the country's recent third-quarter growth figures.
A looming demographic shift is also a concern. In 2030, Brazil's population is expected to decline and get increasingly older, potentially straining government resources.
Venture capital firms investing in Brazil's start-up boom regard Criatec as well intentioned. Eric Acher, a founding partner at Monashees Capital, called it a "great learning experience to focus on innovation."
Anderson Thees of Redpoint e.Ventures also praised the fund. "They are probably tapping into very good opportunities early," he said.
Yet these and other venture funds have yet to team up with Criatec on investments.
For instance, Criatec looks for companies developing technology and with clear intellectual property that can be licensed or retained, Mr. Thees said. "Silicon Valley is less interested in this," he said.
Mr. Acher agreed: "I don't think at the moment Silicon Valley is looking for technology innovation in Brazil," adding that the return did not yet justify the level of risk involved.
BNDES expected such risk aversion when it created Criatec.
"Not even Brazilian funds were showing interest in early-stage companies," said Eduardo Rath Fingerl, one of the fund's architects. "We knew it would have to be entirely a BNDES effort."
BNDES, short for Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento (the National Development Bank in English), has long played an important role in Brazil's rise. Formed in 1952, the development bank initially financed major infrastructure. Its scope and size grew considerably under former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who thought Brazil needed brand-name multinationals to gain respect overseas.
In 2003, the bank disbursed $11.7 billion, but by 2010, that figure had skyrocketed to $96.3 billion. It has provided subsidized loans to most large Brazilian companies, including the oil giant Petrobras and the mining concern Vale. The bank has also supported foreign companies, including $3 billion to American Airlines to buy planes from Embraer, a Brazilian manufacturer.
Its dominance here has drawn criticism. Some contend the government bank has the wrong priorities, including financing mergers and acquisitions, which some contend should be left to the private sector.
"Long-term credit is still a problem in Brazil," the Brazilian economist Mansueto Almeida said. However, "Brazil today is very different from what it was 20 years ago. It has very active capital markets."
Criatec, however, is one of the bank's smallest and least-controversial programs. Mr. Almeida said that with this initiative, "it is trying to do the right thing. That's exactly what one expects from a development bank."
Criatec I has had a slow track record of success. Usix Technologies, an insurance market exchange technology firm that received backing from Criatec, was acquired by the publicly traded Ebix in 2010. It has also backed companies with promise, like Amazon Dreams, which has developed patented techniques to produce açai and other berries with higher antioxidant content.
Some foreign investors are starting to look at the Criatec I portfolio. Intel Capital, the venture arm of the chip maker Intel, is evaluating the location intelligence software company Geofusion, according to a person briefed on the talks, who asked to be anonymous because the discussions were ongoing.
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers showed interest this year in the agro-pesticide company Bug Agentes Biologicos but said the start-up first needed $10 million in revenue. Now that company is discussing a strategic partnership with Israel's Bio-Bee Biological Systems. But such potential deals again indicate that foreign venture capital firms are still not courting the smaller start-ups.
"They all want to find these companies with $10 million to $15 million in revenue, but there just is not deal flow at that size," said a person familiar with Kleiner Perkins's outreach plans, who also asked to remain anonymous as the talks were private.
Based on 2012 estimates, only one Criatec I company of the 33 in business will cross $10 million in revenue.
Amazon Dreams' revenue, for example, is still negligible despite the health craze in the United States for açai berries.
BNDES also established the fund to help out academics who have great ideas but don't have the same success in obtaining the private sector financing that entrepreneurs do.
"Brazil has a lot of intelligence," said Mr. Rath Fingerl, who retired from BNDES last year, but "the great difficulty is bridging the divide between the scientific and business communities."
The fund also has limitations. For example, the bank holds veto power on most company decisions even though it is a minority shareholder. Yet, it appears quite flexible as it seeks co-investments.
BNDES's political influence in Criatec companies "is totally negotiable," said Marcio Spata, head of the Criatec fund at the development bank. "We are always open to changing our rights" for appropriate offers.
Eduardo Klingelhoefer de Sa, head of the department of funds at BNDES, said, "We would be very happy if private investors come so that our stakes are reduced."

        
Recruiting Young Talent in China to Find the Next Big Idea
        
Despite Setbacks, Investor Is Bullish on Clean Technology

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); STARTUPS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (73%); POPULATION DECLINE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (57%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Brazil; Foreign Investments; Start-ups; Venture Capital; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: REDPOINT VENTURES (67%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (67%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (89%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



157 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Calculator for You to Try as Washington Debates

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The Tax Policy Center's calculators help put some numbers on various scenarios. 

 BODY:
If you're like me, you have been followingthe debate over the so-called fiscal cliffwith a sort of low-grade headache. With so many variables, it's hard to keep all the possible outcomes straight.
The Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, has taken a crack at helping individual taxpayers evaluate how various options would affect their overall federal tax burden, including both payroll taxes and income taxes, next year. The center has created a set of calculators that allows you to compare the total tax liability for different sorts of taxpayers in 2013, based on four scenarios. (Wonk warning: The calculator was created by tax policy mavens, so it contains a great deal of detail, perhaps a bit too much for a casual user.) 
Still, if you 're interested in what might result, or not, from the negotiations in Washington, here are the four tax policy scenarios presented in the tool. The calculator doesn't reflect the latest proposal made by House Republicans because it lacked sufficient detail about tax rates to model, said Roberton Williams, senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center:
1) 2012 tax law (with an alternative-minimum-tax patch, to limit the number of taxpayers affected by the tax). This is what you'd pay if Congress continued the tax policy in place this year, with an A.M.T. patch, for 2013 income.
2) 2013 tax law. This is what you would pay for all of next year if Congress doesn't act.
3) The Senate Democratic plan, which would extend the expiring Bush-era income tax cuts for a year for all except the top 2 percent of taxpayers. It would extend the credits originally enacted by President Obama in 2009, but allow the temporary payroll tax cut to expire.
4) The Senate Republican plan, which would extend the Bush-era income tax cuts for everyone but would allow the 2009 credits and the temporary payroll tax cut to expire.
The site offers examples for six basic taxpayer scenarios (single with no children, married with two children under 13, etc.) that you can further tweak with your own information.
Among the various assumptions built into the calculator is that both the employer and employee shares of the payroll tax -- the taxes that fund Social Security and Medicare -- are assigned to the worker. A note explains, "Economists believe that the employer's share of the tax is actually borne by the worker in the form of lower wages and therefore the tax calculator assigns both employer and employee shares of the tax to the worker."
To look at just one example, the calculator shows that a single filer with no children and adjusted gross income of $18,600 would have a total tax liability (including payroll and income taxes) that is $802 higher under the 2013 scenario if Congress fails to act, than under the scenario of continuing the 2012 tax laws with an A.M.T. patch.
The total liability for the same taxpayer, under either the Senate Republican plan or the Senate Democratic plan, would be $372 higher than the patched 2012 scenario, according to the calculator.
Put another way, the taxpayer's liability would be $430 higher under the 2013 scenario of Congress failing to act, than under either of the Senate plans.
Try out the calculators yourself. Did it help your headache, or did you still have to resort to ibuprofen?

        
What the Tax Deal Means for You
        
Gay Couples May Want to File a Protective Tax Refund Claim
        
Taxpayers Warned to Beware of E-Mails From I.R.S.
        
Free Help for People Filing Their Income Taxes
        
Options for Paying Your Taxes Late or in Installments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (84%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) Taxes; Obama, Barack; Federal Taxes (US); Tax Policy Center

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%) Tax Policy Center

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



158 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Economist: Yes, Maine is known for its lobsters, but close-to-endangered baby eels (called elvers or glass eels) are vastly more lucrative, selling for $2,600 per pound thanks to Asian and European shortages. And the correct verb for catching an eel with bait is "to sniggle." Really. - Glenn Collins 
: Pete Wells, the paper's restaurant critic, is answering readers' questions, and Topic A, of course, is his recent review of Guy Fieri's restaurant in Times Square. The huge public response to the review, he writes, "bowled me over." - Patrick Farrell 
Herbivoracious: You've managed to score a bag full of rare, expensive porcini? Michael Natkin has a suggestion: slice them very thinly, and steer clear of the stove. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Tim Atkin: The British wine writer offers 10 thoughts on the 2011 Burgundy vintage. -- Eric Asimov
The Tampa Tribune: The newspaper's annual fruitcake haiku contest is open for entries. (The haiku contest is just a few years old, but its recipe for Mrs. Lucille Harvey's fruitcake has been published every year since 1951.) -- Julia Moskin
The New York Post: Young New Yorkers are ditching the pot-luck for elaborate dinner parties. -- Maria Newman
The New York Observer: Wan, chalky, not all that great for you - and now inescapable: frozen yogurt, or "frigid glop," as it's described in this extended lament about all the ways "fro-yo" is ruining New York. - Patrick Farrell
Mamiverse: A Mexican holiday treat: Buñuelos! -- Maria Newman
Travel + Leisure: These just might be the best sushi restaurants in America, says Bao Ong. Any arguments? -- Jeff Gordinier 
Parla Food: A blogger in Rome tastes olives foraged - and home-cured -- from the city's ancient trees. The results are mixed, but entertaining. -- Julia Moskin
Zester Daily: Patrick Comiskey on the 40th anniversary of Kermit Lynch's wine shop in Berkeley, and his importance as an importer and a role model. -- Eric Asimov
: Fish is often called brain food, but two new scientific reports sound an alarm about mercury levels and their effects on brain development. (Via Salon.) - Patrick Farrell
Wine Spectator: Matt Kramer wants to shatter some wine myths. -- Eric Asimov
: Warren Buffett loves routine, in his investment strategies as well as in what he eats. He has had the same lunch almost every day since childhood: A hamburger and fries, followed by vanilla ice cream, "strong on the chocolate syrup," he tells James Surowiecki. -- Maria Newman
Table Matters: What's the problem with Bordeaux? Jason Wilson examines whether the rest of us can find bottles of interest in the world's most famous wine region. -- Eric Asimov
The Guardian: Just how weird is Heston Blumenthal's cooking these days? A quiz. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Bloomberg Businessweek: The very last gasp of Thanksgiving: a chronicle of life on the toll-free 800 help line at the Butterball company offices in Naperville, Ill., offering emergency advice to frantic home cooks since 1981. And they're open through Christmas! - Glenn Collins 
Travel + Leisure: These just might be the best sushi restaurants in America, Bao Ong says. Any arguments? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Observer: The Gilt is closing its doors next week. Adieu to fine dining. -- Maria Newman
: After taking a close look at the national scourge of food-borne illnesses, Barry Estabrook reads the F.D.A. the riot act. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Time Out New York: Beer cheese. Yes, you heard that right. A Southern delicacy has made its way to the New York dining scene. -- Maria Newman
The Washington Post: Yes, another holiday feature trying to persuade us to give fruitcake another chance. But many of the seven variations here (Fruitcake Brûlée with Caramelized Blood Oranges?) sound pretty good. - Patrick Farrell
Newsweek: By asking Iceland's minister of agriculture for a ham-and-cheese sandwich, the actor Gerard Butler brought unforeseen embarrassment to a movie shoot. - Glenn Collins 
SF Weekly: A reminder of something that's good to do when you're in San Francisco: tea at the Top of the Mark. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Bon Appetit: Some of the most interesting produce pops up when the leaves fall off the trees. What to do with it. -- Maria Newman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WINE (89%); FISHES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); WRITERS (75%); BRAIN (71%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (68%); FROZEN FOODS (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (70%) FLORIDA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



159 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Ben Brantley Answers Readers' Questions

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The chief theater critic of The Times answers questions about new scores, populist theater, projection design and Broadway's bathrooms. 

 BODY:
 Below are answers to selected reader questions about the theater world from Ben Brantley, the chief theater critic of The New York Times. Check back for more answers tomorrow. 
 Q. 
 I'm wondering whether the really old days where people knew a score before going in was a good thing. - Fred Landau, New York City
 A. 
 Though Broadway musicals - at least new musicals -- are less likely to be filled with songs that have hit the top 40, the way they were 50 years ago, I'd say that in many cases, audiences are still familiar with the scores of the shows they're seeing. That's because so many Broadway productions these days recycle old scores (as in "Nice Work if You Can Get It") and songbooks ("Rock of Ages,""Jersey Boys"). People seem to want to hear what they already know. But I see your point: it's exciting to be engaged and even startled by a fresh set of songs you've never heard before. Sadly, that rarely happens on Broadway anymore.
 Q. 
 Do you feel, as I do, that theater is becoming an ever more unpopulist medium? I see so few shows that treat the stage as simply another way to tell a story and so many that are about a subset of theater culture pandering to itself. - Maddi Chapin, Livingston, N.J.
 A. 
 There are a lot of forms of theater out there, especially in New York, and I think it's always possible to find a production to match your tastes, though sometimes it requires more investigation and research than you may feel is worth it. Off-Broadway companies like Playwrights Horizons and the Mint Theater specialize in conventional, narrative-driven plays - new works in the case of Playwrights and old (and often rare) dramas from the past at the Mint.
If theater is less populist, I think it's as much a matter of economics as anything. Broadway shows, in particular, have priced themselves out of the reach of all but the most dedicated middle-class theatergoer, except as an occasional thing. And the pressure to justify the prices often leads producers to, as you put it, "pander" with star vehicles and showstopper-packed musicals.
But the narrative drive that you love about the theater is still in existence, and there are writers who still dedicate themselves to perpetuating it. Broadway probably isn't the first place to look for satisfying theater, though.
 Q. 
 What do you hope for when you see a new work, or work by a new playwright? - Beth Derochea, Weymouth, Mass.
 A. 
 I hope to hear a voice that is true to itself and to the logic it sets up within the play. This happens far less often than you might expect.
 Q. 
 What role do you believe media/projections currently play in New York theater? - Bryce C. Cutler, Pittsburgh
 A. 
 Projections play a huge role in the theater these days. This is equally true of a big musical like, say, "The Woman in White" - a short-lived Andrew Lloyd Webber costume musical (seen in New York in 2005) that was most notable for its substitution of elaborate two-dimensional video projections (by William Dudley) for three-dimensional scenery - and an off-Broadway production like the political bio-drama "Checkers," currently at the Vineyard Theater, in which the designer Darrel Maloney draws changes of scenery into existence (via projection) as we watch. Wendall K. Harrington, whose video and digital work has enlivened many a major production in recent years, is probably the reigning master of this art.
Like all forms of design in theater, mixed media effects have been used effectively and ineffectively, sometimes enhancing the live human presence at the production's center and sometimes eclipsing it. But they're definitely here to stay. It's worth noting that when "Sunday in the Park With George" -- the Stephen Sondehim-James Lapine musical about the artist George Seurat -- was revived four years ago, projections had largely taken the place of more traditional cut-out scenery in making Seurat's art come to life. (The digital designs were by Timothy Bird and the Knifedge Creative Network.) And for me, the gorgeous act one finale (in which Seurat's masterpiece portraying the Ile de la Grande Jatte is summoned into being before our eyes) was every bit as magical in this latter-day incarnation as it was in the original.
 Q. 
 My husband and I will spend one night in New York City on Jan. 5. We won't be back before many months. What show should we, 27-year-old theater enthusiasts, go see? - Hélène Steiner, Minneapolis 
 A. 
 I don't know your specific tastes, of course, or what you've seen in the past. But given your ages, I'm thinking you might enjoy "Once," which won the Tony for Best Musical this year, and is certainly the most original musical to open on Broadway in many months. It's a love story (aren't they all?) but one told via a gentle indie-rock-pop score and extremely inventive dance sequences. 
"Peter and the Starcatcher," which is closing soon, might sound like kid-stuff, since it tells the back story of the boy who became Peter Pan. But it is purely and wonderfully theatrical in the way that it tells its story, without elaborate props or scenery, but more imagination and innovation than you'll find in a host of Hollywood spectacles.
 Q. 
 Is there a single theater on Broadway that has even halfway acceptable (re: size, cleanliness) bathrooms? - Chris Jehle, San Francisco
 A. 
 I'd have to do more research to provide a satisfactory answer. My mind is usually so full of what's been happening on stage that I'm rarely aware of my surroundings at intermission, even in the men's room. I haven't noticed any exceptionally squalid environments, but then I'm not a white gloves kind of guy.

        
Mamet's 'Anarchist' to Fold on Dec. 16
        
Theater Talkback: A Hot Ticket on Broadway, and a Cold Shoulder to Reviewers
        
Ben Brantley Takes Readers' Questions
        
Tourists Increase Share of Broadway Ticket Sales
        
Cicely Tyson to Star in 'Trip to Bountiful' on Broadway

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); COINS & COINAGE (68%) Theater; New York City

COMPANY: BROADWAY COS INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3544 SPECIAL DIES & TOOLS, DIE SETS, JIGS & FIXTURES & INDUSTRIAL MOLDS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



160 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: The Fate of an American City: Mark Binelli Talks About Detroit

BYLINE: JOHN WILLIAMS


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Binelli's book "Detroit City Is the Place to Be" examines the city's deep problems and how they might be solved. 

 BODY:
Detroit has become the most visibly distressed symbol of our hard economic times. In his new book, "Detroit City Is the Place to Be: The Afterlife of an American Metropolis," Mark Binelli traces the long history of racial and financial struggles there, documents the current crisis, and investigates the many ways - innovative, desperate and otherwise - that residents are trying to turn things around. In a recent e-mail interview, Mr. Binelli discussed the rise of urban agriculture in Detroit, apportioning blame for the city's problems and more. Below are edited excerpts from the conversation:
 Q. 
You grew up outside of Detroit. When did you leave it? 
 A. 
I moved away in 1993, when I was 22, though my parents and brother remain in the area, so I've never let much time lapse between visits. 
 Q. 
What inspired you to go back and write about it? And how long did you live there while you reported the book?
 A. 
I always thought I would write a novel about Detroit one day. But when the economy collapsed in 2008 and I saw Detroit becoming the poster city of (and all-purpose metaphor for) recession-era America, I started thinking about nonfiction - partly, I think, because the stories coming out of Detroit tended to be so tediously one-note. Detroit isn't just a tragic city of ruins; it's a deeply weird place, filled with the sorts of characters you'd have found in Joseph Mitchell's New York a century earlier. I moved back in 2009 and stayed until early 2012. 
 Q. 
Is the story of U.S. manufacturing the clearest reason for Detroit's decline, the same way it caused the city's prosperity in the early part of the 20th century?
 A. 
I'd say it's up there, but the abandonment of the city began long before the collapse of U.S. manufacturing. And that abandonment had far more to do with race. An American city as important as Detroit would have never been essentially discarded if it had been 85% white instead of 85% black. 
 Q. 
Do you see any way for the city's firm racial segregation to change?
 A. 
That's actually one reason for cautious optimism I express in the book: that historic segregation is slowly changing. The most recent census found Detroit's population had plunged nearly 25% in the 10 years since the last census, from just under a million to just over 700,000. Everyone read this as one more nail in Detroit's coffin, and of course, the numbers were bad news for the city. But many of the black residents leaving Detroit ended up in the surrounding suburbs, which had been more or less entirely white when I was growing up. Likewise, Detroit's white population rose for the first time in 60 years. One would hope that such increased diversity, however tentative, could lead to more regional cooperation, which both the city and the suburbs (also hurting in this recession) sorely need. 
 Q. 
Coleman Young and Kwame Kilpatrick, two former mayors of Detroit, have taken a lot of criticism for the city's problems. How much of the blame would you place on a broken political system?
 A. 
Young's successes and failures are debatable; Kilpatrick's failures are well-documented and worthy of condemnation. And there's certainly been a general level of political dysfunction over the years that has not been helpful to Detroit. That said, I think it's also been wildly overstated, and there's sometimes a tinge (occasionally a generous dollop) of racism inherent in the critiques. Detroit's main problem is that it has no tax base, and so can't provide basic city services to its remaining residents - who, quite sensibly, continue to leave the city in droves, further eroding the tax base. You could make Mike Bloomberg the mayor of Detroit tomorrow and he wouldn't be able to change that math. Unless he started writing personal checks.
 Q. 
Urban agriculture has sprouted on some of the city's abandoned land, but you write that it isn't a practical way forward for most people. I got the sense that the positive things Detroit is now best known for - farming, art collectives - are closer to hobbies than real solutions. Do you agree with that?
 A. 
"Hobbies" is a bit harsh, but yes, some of the positive Detroit stories that have gotten the most ink are more attractive metaphorically - gardens blooming from the wreckage of post-industrial America! - than practically. Detroit is not going to return to an agrarian economy, and conceptual art projects and artisanal coffee shops won't really dent the entrenched problems facing much of the city's population: crime, failing schools, chronic unemployment. Still, positive activity of any sort in Detroit can only be a good thing, and I think many of these projects embody the bottom-up, DIY energy that will be a crucial part of Detroit's next chapter. 
 Q. 
You spent time with artists, politicians, volunteer firemen and others around the city. How would you rate the overall mood of the residents? Do they have the underlying optimism you express at times in the book?
 A. 
You'll find a pretty broad spectrum of moods across the city. There are boosters who won't hear a bad word about Detroit; there are lifelong residents who would leave in a heartbeat if they could swing it. In a recent poll in the Detroit News, 40% of the respondents said they hoped to move out of the city within the next five years, citing crime as the main reason. Part of this divide is the result of a decades-long problem in Detroit: the overwhelming bulk of the resources are poured into core areas like downtown and Midtown, while many of the outlying neighborhoods continue go to seed. 
 Q. 
The city had success for a while drawing Hollywood productions to town via tax breaks. Why did that stop?
 A. 
The Times just ran a great piece on the failure of a massive movie studio built in Pontiac, a troubled city about 30 miles north of Detroit proper. The article focused on the potential shadiness of certain of the investors, but I think somewhat underplayed why things really went south: Michigan's new Republican governor, Rick Snyder, ended the tax credit policy when he was elected in 2011, because he thought the state should make itself generally attractive to business (as opposed to picking favorites). Part of me agrees with him: that sort of racing to the bottom that states are forced to engage in, just to lure huge corporations, is repugnant. On the other hand, the studios do claim film shoots provide subsidiary economic benefits (catering, hotel rooms, etc.), so long-term the investment might have proved worthwhile.
 Q. 
You write extensively about "ruin porn" - photographs of the area's crumbling and abandoned structures. Does this trend of taking aesthetic pleasure from Detroit's troubles offend you as a native of the place?
 A. 
I'm not offended by photographers like, say, Andrew Moore, even though he's not from Detroit and spent very little time in the city - technically his work is stunning, and when you see some of these buildings up close, or sneak inside, there is a majesty and an aesthetic validity. I also sympathize with the point of view of people who have lived among these ruins for years, sometimes decades, and would happily see them all bulldozed tomorrow. I just hope a balance can be struck. Some of the industrial history, especially, is worthy of preservation, and could become tourist attractions - as opposed to, say, strip malls or stadium parking lots.

        
Novelist's Debut Is Newest Pick for Oprah's Book Club
        
New Rowling Novel to Be Made Into a TV Drama
        
More Goodbyes (and One Good Riddance) for Philip Roth
        
Graphic Books Best Sellers: The End of 'Scalped'
        
Book Review Podcast: The Rolling Stones Turn 50

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CENSUS (68%) Binelli, Mark; Books and Literature; Detroit (Mich); Detroit City Is the Place to Be (Book); Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Books

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



161 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Should Have Risen

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: That poverty did not increase during the recession demonstrates that government policies were providing too much help and taking away incentives to work, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
When measured to include taxes and government benefits, poverty did not rise between 2007 and 2011, and that shows why government policy is seriously off track.
When somebody earns, say, $10,000 by working, he should keep some of it for himself and his family rather than handing it all over to the government. By the same reasoning, when someone loses $10,000 by not working, he should get some help from the government or from others in the forms of reduced taxes and enhanced benefits but still should bear a portion of that loss himself. 
Economists debate the fraction of wages that workers should keep for themselves, because the optimal fraction is a trade-off between incentives, insurance, support of public goods, freedom and other factors. Libertarians and other believers in small governments might set the fraction at 80 percent or more. Other economists think that incentives have an effect on behavior, but incentive effects are small, so we can safely set the fraction at 30 percent, or even a bit less.

But I thought economists agreed that the fraction should not be zero, so that people losing money by not working would bear a portion of the loss. If people with declining incomes found them entirely replaced by government help, that amounts to 100 percent taxation (providing more benefits as income falls is sometimes called "implicit taxation").
As James Tobin, a John F. Kennedy adviser, Nobel laureate and leading Keynesian economist of his day, said in a 1965 article, a 100 percent tax rate causes "needless waste and demoralization," adding:
This application of the means test is bad economics as well as bad sociology. It is almost as if our present programs of public assistance had been consciously contrived to perpetuate the conditions they are supposed to alleviate.
Professor Tobin called the 100 percent tax situation demoralizing because the affected people find that all of the benefits of their hard work and success go to the government in the form of more tax receipts and fewer benefit payments. The unintended result would be less work and more families earning less than the poverty line, which is why Professor Tobin described such policies as perpetuating poverty.
If, as economists recommend, everybody's tax rate is effectively less than 100 percent, then someone with disposable income of, say, 110 percent of the poverty line should find himself falling into poverty when he loses his job. His living standards would not fall to zero because he should be getting some help in terms of reduced taxes and increased benefits. But optimally his disposable income would fall to 80 percent of the poverty line, and perhaps below, until he found a new job.
Under the Obama administration, workers with disposable income in the neighborhood of the poverty line did not, on average, see their job losses during the recession translate into significant reductions in their disposable income.
As Jared Bernstein put it, America had "the deepest recession since the Great Depression and poverty didn't go up." He shows that the percentage of people in households with disposable income less than the poverty line was 15 percent in 2011, just as it was in 2007 before the recession began. In fact, the percentage fell a bit after 2008 when the stimulus law went into effect.
The results suggest that the government was helping too much. If they had been following the advice of Professor Tobin and all other economists who say they believe that tax rates should be less than 100 percent, the fraction of households with disposable income below the poverty line would have risen as a consequence of millions of lost jobs, just less than it would have without any government help.
Mr. Bernstein, one of the Obama administration advisers who designed the stimulus law and said it would quickly push the unemployment rate below 8 percent, appears to be unaware that it is possible for the government to help too much by creating the kind of situation Professor Tobin described and depress the economy in the process. Mr. Bernstein fails to mention incentives in any way and instead describes the poverty results as "a real accomplishment and a sign of a far more civilized society."
Erasing incentives is not the way to a civilized society but rather to an impoverished one.

        
A Keynesian Blind Spot
        
Millions Caught by the Social Safety Net
        
What Job Openings Tell Us
        
The Baby Boom and Economic Recovery
        
Labor-Market Scars Left by Redistributive Public Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (86%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); SOCIOLOGY (67%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; financial crisis; fiscal stimulus; Poverty; recession; Unemployment; Tobin, James; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%) Tobin, James

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



162 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Makes its Case in Washington

BYLINE: CAROL GIACOMO


HIGHLIGHT: An update on Egypt's fraught shift toward democracy. 

 BODY:
Essam al-Haddad, the national security adviser to President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt, is thoughtful, engaging and articulate in both Arabic and English. 
In Washington on Wednesday, he was also pretty convincing in preaching his vision of a well-intentioned Egyptian government that is committed to democracy and determined to play a constructive role at home and in the region.
The government, which is dominated by the Muslim Brotherhood and its Freedom and Justice Party, is "taking all the checks and balances in order to have an evolving democracy, not the creation of a stereotype of a state which is theocratic. We have no acceptance of a theocratic state," he insisted in an interview. 
After spending several days meeting with officials in the Obama administration,he said both sides had agreed that "the model of Egypt in building a true democracy will really create a change in the whole region and will help bring stability, prosperity and peace in the region." 
We could be more optimistic if events in Egypt supported Mr. Haddad's rhetoric better. Reality is more sobering: The country is in the midst of the worst political crisis since the 2011 revolution that toppled Hosni Mubarak, and Mr. Morsi is adopting tactics and policies that invoke inevitable comparison to his autocratic predecessor.

On Wednesday, supporters and opponents of Mr. Morsi fought with rocks, firebombs and sticks outside the presidential palace in Cairo. It is all part of a new round of protests that began when Mr. Morsi, a former Muslim Brotherhood leader, issued a decree on Nov. 22 that granted himself broad powers beyond court review. He said the move was a necessary step to prevent the Mubarak-era court from interfering obstructing the adoption of a new constitution. Then hedoubled down by speeding up a referendum on the new charter, which is now set for Dec. 15.
All this put Mr. Haddad and his delegation on the defensive. They insisted that democratic transitions are, by nature, difficult and that protests are an essential and treasured component of any real democracy, so long as they aren't violent. With the referendum date set, Egypt's democratic process is moving forward. Once the constitution is approved and a new parliament elected, they insist, Mr. Morsi will be able to give up his extraordinary powers,as.
But the government is clearly concerned by the unrest, which seriously undermines Egypt's chances for reviving an economy in free fall. In an overture on Wednesday that was aimed at easing the tensions, The vice president invited opposition groups to join a national dialogue around the new constitution, identifying troublesome articles and solutions for fixing them. The amendments would be debated and voted on by the new parliament that is elected after the constitution is adopted, officials said.
This would mean opposition groups and the government would have to sit down and negotiate in good faith. "We have to calm things down. We have to focus on what is really good for our country," said Khaled al-Qazzaz, one of Mr. Morsi's advisers. He's right. But will the opposition engage after the new Morsi-appointed prosecutor general referred a case against one of their leaders, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Mohammed El Baradei, to authorities for investigation into alleged espionage and sedition? That doesn't seem like the kind of gesture that will engender cooperation.

        
Opinion Report: The Crisis in Egypt
        
Legitimate Criticism
        
Battlefield Earth
        
Opinion Report: FISA Continued
        
The Good, the Bad, and the Palin

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); REFERENDUMS (86%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) Middle East and North Africa Unrest; Mohamed Morsi; Muslim Brotherhood; Morsi, Mohamed; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Muslim Brotherhood (Egypt); Egypt

ORGANIZATION: Muslim Brotherhood (Egypt)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Morsi, Mohamed

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%) Egypt

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



163 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Drugs and Politics Stoke Ireland Gang War

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A well-known crime figure was shot dead in Dublin this week in the latest gangland killing to afflict the Irish capital. Police are linking the murder to an underworld war involving dissident Republican militants. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The gangland killing of a prominent Dublin crime boss on Tuesday marked the latest escalation in an underworld war involving drug dealers, disaffected Irish Republicans and contract killers.
The Irish police, the Garda Síochána, were questioning on Wednesday a man reported to be linked to the dissident Republican movement after Eamon Kelly, a 65-year-old career criminal, was shot and killed outside his Dublin home by a lone gunman.
The murder of a man referred to by the Dublin press as "The Godfather" was the 15th gang-related killing this year. 
The Irish broadcaster RTE said detectives believed the latest murder was linked to tensions between dissident Republicans and criminal gangs, which led to the murder of a member of the so-called Real I.R.A. three months ago. 
A wave of killings over recent years has been linked to conflict over the proceeds of the illegal drug trade. The gangland phenomenon has even spawned a popular television drama series, Love/Hate, which began its third season in November.
The Irish Independent wrote at the time that the real-life gangland story was starker than the fiction. Martin Callinan, the head of the Irish police, told the newspaper that Ireland hosted 25 organized crime gangs, whose bosses were forging links with Russian mobsters.
Recent killings have been linked to a war between drug gangs and disaffected elements of the Irish Republican Army who rejected the peace process in Northern Ireland that ended three decades of violence in the British-ruled province.
The Real I.R.A., banned in Britain and the Irish Republic and regarded by the United States as a terrorist organization, has carried out bomb and gun attacks on both sides of the Irish border in the past decade, ostensibly in support of its campaign for a united Ireland.
In the Irish Republic, however, the dissidents are now regarded as just another criminal gang, bent on extorting the drug profits of crime bosses in Dublin and other cities.
The Real I.R.A. this year linked up with a Northern Ireland vigilante group - Republican Action Against Drugs - which has been behind a campaign of shootings and forcible exile of teenagers and men accused of involvement in drug dealing in the northern city of Derry.
"They have persuaded some parents to hand over their children - some as young as 18 - to be shot by appointment in a nonlethal way to spare them more serious injuries," the BBC reported.
The alliance was proclaimed as part of a politically inspired unity effort among dissidents to strengthen the armed struggle against the British presence in the province. However, the Derry vigilantes have been branded by Northern Ireland police as vicious thugs who are running their own extortion rackets linked to their self-proclaimed war on drugs. 
South of the border in September, Alan Ryan, a murdered member of the Real I.R.A. linked to the Dublin drug war, was buried at a ceremony in which masked mourners in paramilitary uniform put on what was the dissidents' biggest show of strength to date in the Irish Republic.
Mr. Ryan was described at the graveside as "a brave Irish republican and fearless I.R.A. volunteer."
Irish police, however, believe he was himself directly responsible for two murders and was involved in extorting drug gangs in Dublin as well as innocent pub owners, according to The Belfast Telegraph.
"Sources say that a north Dublin drugs gang hired a professional assassin to kill Ryan after he robbed them of a large amount of cash earlier this summer," the newspaper wrote.
The favored theory in Tuesday's murder of Eamon Kelly is that it was revenge for the Ryan killing.

        
Happy Bloomsday! The World Celebrates James Joyce
        
First Recession, Then Crime and Fear
        
Royal Handshake Sealing End of 'Troubles' Upsets Some
        
Double Police Killing Raises Question: Should Officers Be Armed?
        
Chinese Lining Up in Record Numbers to Visit the U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); EXTORTION (89%); POLITICS (89%); GANGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (67%); MURDER (58%); PEACE PROCESS (52%) Crime; derry; dublin; garda siochana; ireland; Real IRA; Extortion and Blackmail; Terrorism; Dublin (Ireland); Northern Ireland; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (82%) Real IRA

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) IRELAND (97%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Dublin (Ireland); Northern Ireland

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



164 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: When a Green Revolution Runs Out of Water

BYLINE: DAVID AGREN


HIGHLIGHT: The construction of an aqueduct to move water to a Mexican manufacturing hub is resisted by farmers in the birthplace of the Green Revolution. 

 BODY:
CIUDAD OBREGÓN, Mexico--The Green Revolution sprang forth from this valley of wheat farms in Sonora State, producing the food required to feed a rapidly expanding population. But the water that has nourished crops here for decades and sustained the Yaqui people for centuries is threatened.
The federal and Sonora State governments are building an aqueduct to take water from the Yaqui River to supply the mushrooming manufacturing hub of Hermosillo, 175 miles south of the Arizona border at Nogales. There, burgeoning automotive and aerospace industries and a booming population have put demands on water destined for agricultural purposes. 
The aqueduct itself has pitted industrial interests and politicians against previously privileged farmers and the Yaqui.
"They're taking water from one river valley to supply another," said Francisco Ramos, a wheat farmer and one of the more than 21,000 members of the Yaqui Valley irrigation district. "If you do this in a semi-arid state, there are going to be problems."

The conflict in Sonora raises water management questions that are common across Mexico, parts of which recently experienced the worst drought in decades. Those questions include the wisdom of moving water from one basin to another, as already happens in Mexico City and is being proposed for other industrial cities like León, Querétaro and Monterrey.
Other issues include whether industry should take priority over agriculture, especially as manufacturing expands in central and northern Mexico and Mexican-made goods gain an increasing share of the United States market.
Building the aqueduct, Mexico's outgoing president, Felipe Calderón, said last week in Sonora, propels economic development in Hermosillo "by having a secure supply of water for industrial and commercial activities."
The Independence aqueduct will draw 75 million cubic meters of water from the Yaqui River at a dam known as El Novillo to supply Hermosillo, where the population has grown 20 percent, to more than 700,000, since 2000. 
The availability of water has decreased 25 percent over the same period, according to the National Water Commission, or Conagua. Local observers and aqueduct opponents attribute this to waste, including the loss of as much as 40 percent of Hermosillo's water as a result of leaky pipes.
"The management problem is worse" than the problems posed by the actual supply of water, said Nicolás Pineda Pablos, a professor of public policy at the Colegio de Sonora in Hermosillo who takes a neutral stance on the aqueduct.
Local politics and Mexico's political culture, in which municipal planning for projects seldom stretches from one three-year administration to the next, compound the problem. Politicians, Mr. Pineda suggests, also prefer undertaking highly visible projects like aqueducts rather than replacing leaky pipes.
Conagua's director, José Luis Luege Tamargo, said that Hermosillo had no other water sources to tap and that wells to the west, near the Gulf of California, were contaminated by saltwater intrusions.The Yaqui River had water to spare, he added.
But the Yaqui Valley farmers' irrigation district has been one of the few in Mexico to be in equilibrium, Alejandro Olea, a lawyer for the farmers, argues.
The farmers lost the 2003 season as a result of drought and have to cede water to residential users in Ciudad Obregón. This contrasts, Mr. Olea said, with the situation in Hermosillo, where agriculture receives about 90 percent of the region's water and residents are subjected to water rationing.
The farmers have fought back through the courts, winning early legal challenges to the environmental reviews, which Mr. Olea contends were hastily done and did not adequately assess the area downstream from El Novillo dam, where the aqueduct will withdraw water.
The Yaqui also have rights to water and the land in the valley and won a decision against the aqueduct after discovering documents saying that no such group as theirs existed in the area - the latest indignity for a tribe never conquered by the Spanish and expelled to the Yucatán Peninsula in the early 1900s by Porfirio Díaz, then Mexico's president.
The tribe also points to past problems with diverting water from the Yaqui Valley, where construction of an aqueduct in the early 1990s for the purpose of supplying coastal communities caused the water table to drop from one meter to 25 meters and oak trees to wither.
Mr. Luege insists that the aqueduct will draw only 3.4 percent of the water destined for agriculture and will not affect the flow below the Novillo dam or the supply promised to the Yaqui.
Rodrigo González, a researcher at the Sonora Technology Institute in Ciudad Obregón, rejects those assertions, including the suggestion that sucking water from the Yaqui River will have no downstream impact.
The proposed withdrawal for the aqueduct "appears like a small amount when you have lots of water," Mr. González said. But that is seldom the case, as the region has become drier over the past two decades, he said. Its reservoirs also take longer to recharge, and farmers now forgo planting summer crops, he added.
Mr. González estimates that the Yaqui Valley, located on the cusp of arid and tropical zones, will lose more than 18,000 acres of wheat-growing land in the valley, where some 500,000 acres are used for agriculture.
"This will guarantee Hermosillo's future, but not ours," he says.
Several researchers at the Colegio de Sonora, while not endorsing the aqueduct or water management practices in Hermosillo, say the Yaqui Valley farmers are using water for unproductive activities like growing durum wheat, for which the Mexican market is limited, and derive their profits from subsidies.
"A good part of the wheat farmers in Sonora do not reach the levels of efficiency necessary to be competitive," Álvaro Bracamote, a professor, and Rosana Méndez Barrón, a graduate student, wrote in a book on wheat farming in the state. They suggested that the abundance of water "has operated as a sort of disincentive for advancing the process of modernizing agriculture."
Hermosillo farmers, they add, diversified after the North American Free Trade Agreement was put into effect in the mid-1990s and now grow crops like nuts, table grapes and Asian vegetables, making more than three times as much money per hectare (equivalent to 2.5 acres) as Yaqui Valley wheat farmers.
These farmers have shared little of their allotted water with residential customers in Hermosillo, however, leaving the region with a decision - one that other cities in Mexico also will have to face.
"If you want to have big-city growth, you can't also have agriculture," Mr. Pineda says.

        
Not All Rivers Reach the Sea
        
N.H.L. Tries to Give Back the Water
        
For India's Farmers, a Bare-Bones Drip System
        
Report Warns of Rising Water Demand
        
Climate Change and the Food Supply

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (90%); IRRIGATION (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (89%); DROUGHT (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); TRENDS (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); WATER RIGHTS (76%); RIVERS (76%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); WATER QUALITY (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (71%); CITIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) aqueduct; Ciudad Obregon; Greenpeace; Water; Wheat; Yaqui people; Yaqui River; Agriculture and Farming; Economic Conditions and Trends; Irrigation; Levees and Dams; Mexico; Agriculture; Business; Politics and Policy; Water Quantity

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



165 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: As Ever, Money Worries Pervade Climate Talks

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: It is a particularly difficult time for industrialized nations to find new money to help developing nations cope with drought or rising seas. 

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar - The United Nations climate conference here has settled into its typical doldrums, with most major questions unresolved as a Friday evening deadline for concluding the talks approaches. One of the thorniest issues is money, which has often bedeviled these affairs. 
Since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change process began some 20 years ago, countries have been split into two often-warring camps - the small number of wealthy nations that provide money to help deal with the impacts of global warming and the much larger group of poorer states that receive it. 
At a climate summit meeting in Copenhagen three years ago, the industrialized countries promised to provide $10 billion a year in adaptation financing over the following three years and $100 billion a year beginning in 2020. The short-term money has more or less been raised and spent, although some nations quarrel over whether it was new money or simply repurposed foreign aid. A Green Climate Fund has been established to handle the post-2020 money.
Left unclear was whether and in what amounts money would flow from 2013 to 2020. That is what negotiators from some 190 countries are fighting about here now.
And it is a particularly difficult time for the donor nations to find new money. The United States, which traditionally provides about a quarter of such international finance, is teetering on a fiscal precipice, and few in Washington are thinking about finding several billion dollars to help sub-Saharan Africa or precarious island nations cope with drought and rising seas.

Jonathan Pershing, the State Department's deputy special envoy for climate change, said on Wednesday that the United States has "every intention" of finding money for climate adaptation. But he pointedly noted that in the United States, "like most places, the budgeting process is complicated."
Pete Betts, the principal climate negotiator for the European Union, said that Europe would continue to provide climate funds. But he, too, noted, "These are tough financial times and many states are in difficult circumstances, so we won't be in a position to state our target for 2015."
This rich-country reticence annoys the recipient countries, which see it as ducking responsibility for decades of uncontrolled emissions from industrialized countries that now threaten the health of the planet. 
Some, like Brazil, raise legalistic objections that the wealthier countries promised in previous agreements to provide a steady flow of such finance.
André Corrêa do Lago, the chief Brazilian delegate, said, "There is a very different interpretation between developed and developing countries, which is natural because some are giving the money and some are getting the money."
He said that most developing countries had believed that the roughly $10 billion a year in short-term money would be replaced by a gradual increase until 2020. He said he was sympathetic with the budget problems of Europe and the United States, but also said that unless the donor countries promise to keep up their support, Brazil and other countries will not allow the negotiating process to go forward.
"If at the end you don't, it's a very frustrating exercise," he said.
The most impassioned voices, as usual, are representatives of poor African nations and of low-lying island states threatened with being swamped by rising seas. 
"Please, ladies and gentlemen," the delegate from the Pacific island nation of Nauru pleaded to the assembly, "show me on a map which countries you think are expendable."
Todd D. Stern, the senior American diplomat here, said the United States understood the impatience and frustration of its negotiating partners from the developing world. Addressing the conference on Wednesday, he said that different countries have different abilities to cope with a changing climate and to find the money to adapt. 
He said the United States was willing to discuss the concepts of equity and "common but differentiated responsibilities," terms that carry heavy emotional and historic baggage at these gatherings.
In what was read by many here as a shift in tone, Mr. Stern said that such notions would be central to the outcome of a new global climate change treaty that is supposed to be concluded by 2015 and take effect in 2020 under an agreement reached at Durban, South Africa, a year ago.
"The United States would welcome such a discussion, because unless we can find common ground on that principle and the way in which it should apply in the world of the 2020s, we won't succeed in producing a new Durban Platform agreement," Mr. Stern said, referring to an accord brokered in 2011 at the last major conference, in South Africa. "And we have to succeed."

        
U.S. Envoy Relieved by Climate Talks' Outcome
        
Time Is Nigh for Global Action, Manifesto Warns
        
On Climate Change, a Gloat and a Warning
        
Qatar, a Greenhouse Gas Titan, to Host U.N. Climate Meeting
        
U.N. Unveils Tool for Tracking Progress of Climate Talks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%) climate change; COP-18; Doha Climate Talks; Qatar; United Nations; Pershing, Jonathan; Stern, Todd D; Foreign Aid; Global Warming; International Relations; Third World and Developing Countries; United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; Brazil; Doha (Qatar); United States; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%) United Nations

PERSON: Pershing, Jonathan; Stern, Todd D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); QATAR (94%); EUROPE (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) Brazil; Doha (Qatar); United States

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



166 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Born of a Fire Is Back in Ink After a Storm

BYLINE: VIVIAN YEE


HIGHLIGHT: The Wave newspaper in the Rockaways in Queens, which was forced to stop publishing for the first time in its 119-year history because of Hurricane Sandy, is slowly recovering in a cramped office. 

 BODY:
Never has the name of The Wave, the weekly newspaper of the Rockaways, seemed so apt.
"Wave of Fire, Wall of Water," read the headline atop The Wave on Friday. It was its first print edition since Hurricane Sandy sent over four feet of water crashing through its offices on Rockaway Beach Boulevard five weeks ago, forcing the newspaper to stop publishing for the first time in its 119-year history.
Like everybody else fighting to recover from the storm, many of the employees had lost almost everything. Like everyone else, they needed cars, electricity and a dry place to sleep. 
Like other local companies, The Wave has had to cut back on labor. It may be in the news business, but it is also a small business, and the staff members knew it would live or die by how quickly they could start putting out a newspaper again.
"Right now, we're trying to stay alive and do what we do," said Howard Schwach, the editor, who hasworked at The Wave since 1982. "I knew I couldn't do every story, but I wanted to keep The Wave alive."
So, relying on luck and good humor, that is what the newspaper did.
The only full-time reporter, Nicholas Briano, happens to live in an untouched part of Brooklyn. He could drive, and when he ran out of gas, he made calls and updated the newspaper's Web site and Twitter account, which has doubled its number of followers since the storm. 
Mr. Schwach, whose extended family lost three apartments and five cars in the hurricane's aftermath, fled the cold and dark to his daughter's house on Long Island. "It was very frustrating to be at arm's reach when so much was going on," he said.
As limited as The Wave's reporting had to be, its readership in the days after the storm was even more so, as residents of the Rockaways could neither charge their electronic devices nor get Internet or cellphone service.
There were fortunate breaks. 
The general manager's son, who works on the business staff, was in New Rochelle, N.Y., the night of the storm, which saved his car from the flooding. His great-aunt, the publisher, Susan Locke, has an intact house, so she offered the general manager, Sanford Bernstein - whose house and cars were ruined - a home. 
And the empty second-floor room above The Wave's offices was big enough for a makeshift newsroom, where the staff worked until midnight last Thursday. (The staff calls it the "Wave Cave.")
The devastation downstairs was almost total. The bound archives, spanning 118 years of Rockaways history, were destroyed. So were furniture, kitchen appliances, a copy machine and a mail labeler, along with the computers that Mr. Bernstein thought would be fine if they were on the desks. That was not high enough. 
Among the few things spared were two wall-mounted clown heads - memorabilia from the old Playland amusement park - that now stare over a room stripped down to wall studs and concrete.
Before Tropical Storm Irene hit, in 2011, the newspaper's staff members had taken everything to the second floor, but this time, they decided the storm threat did not merit the trouble. 
As the downstairs facilities were being cleaned out in the first weeks after Hurricane Sandy, the upstairs space, which once housed a tiny church, began to fill up. A medical center donated computers. New tabletops from IKEA, mildly damaged shelves from downstairs and wooden bases became temporary workstations.
Mr. Bernstein reinstalled software. "A bunch of things went wrong last week," he said, "and I'm sure a whole bunch of things will go wrong this week."
He does not have a solution to the biggest question of all: the future. The Wave is likely to become a barometer of the Rockaways' economic recovery, as its finances rise and fall alongside the small businesses that advertise in it. And Mr. Bernstein is not sure he will be able to reinstate all of the newspaper's freelance artists and part-time reporters.
Before the newspaper's distribution resumed, Mr. Schwach went through the new issue and crossed out the advertisements scheduled well in advance for each business wiped out by the storm. Then, bundles of free copies went out to churches, open stores and warming stations. People grabbed them by the handful, delighted to see a neighborhood institution back in business.
The front-page article told readers that The Wave had been born of a disaster (a fire in 1892 that inspired a local printer to start his own paper). And the article ended with the hope that the edition would serve as a commemoration of the storm. 
Ms. Locke, the publisher, has not yet made plans to rebuild the newsroom, but she is adamant about one thing. "This time," she said, "we'll put everything up high." 

        
Surrounded by Light and Flight
        
Artifacts of a Music Career, Gone With the Storm's Roar
        
The Last Scoops of a Vegan Ice Cream Shop
        
Free Subway Shuttle Starting for Part of Rockaway Peninsula
        
A Much Criticized Pocket of the Rockaways, Built to Survive a Storm

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANE SANDY (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); PHOTOCOPIERS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); PACKAGING EQUIPMENT (50%) Hurricane Sandy; The Rockaways; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Newspapers; Small Business; Wave, The (Newspaper); Rockaway Peninsula (NYC); Queens

ORGANIZATION: Wave, The (Newspaper)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Rockaway Peninsula (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



167 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: You Never Know Who'll Sit Beside You on the Train. Right, Jay-Z?

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A brief peek at the work of Ellen Grossman, the artist catapulted to viral fame by her failure to recognize Jay-Z on the subway. 

 BODY:
O.K., so Ellen Grossman didn't recognize Jay-Z when she sat next to him on the subway the other week, as touchingly demonstrated in the video below that's been making the rounds. ("Are you famous?" Ms. Grossman asks her seatmate as the cameras roll? "Not very famous," he replies. "You don't know me. But I'll get there someday.") 
Watch on Youtube.
But then Jay-Z didn't seem to recognize Ellen Grossman, either. Ms. Grossman, 67, is a fellow New York-based artist whose mathematical-but-organic-looking drawings and sculptures riff off "topographic maps, satellite photos, scanning electron microscope images, astronomy and the unfolding of intertwined relationships," according to her Web site.
Perhaps it is time for Jay-Z, who chose a Warhol that hangs over his fireplace for the cover of his memoir, "Decoded," to add a Grossman or two to his collection. Here are a couple from a show she had at Recession Art on the Lower East Side last month.
Ms. Grossman also spoke to our colleague Tanzina Vega at Media Decoder, who has known her for years.

        
Small Shops Aren't Fans of Jay-Z's Distribution Deal
        
Concert Is a Roaring, if Not Quite Timely, Success
        
Brooklyn Transformed, for Better or Worse?
        
First, Mr. Mayor, What of Beyonce's Baby?
        
#trendingnyc: The Week on Twitter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); SCULPTURE (75%); ELECTRON MICROSCOPES (54%) Jay-Z; Grossman, Ellen

PERSON: JAY-Z (90%) Grossman, Ellen; Jay-Z

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



168 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 3017 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of David Leonhardt's Reddit Chat

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: David Leonhardt, The Times's Washington bureau chief, took questions Wednesday on the popular social news site Reddit. What follows is an edited transcript. 

 BODY:
 David Leonhardt, The Times's Washington bureau chief, took questions Wednesday on the popular social news site Reddit. What follows is an edited transcript. 
 Q. 
"You are entitled to your own opinion, but you are not entitled to your own facts." -- Why in the name of balance does the Times and really most of the mainstream media continue to allow politicians and political talking heads a platform to state things that are objectively false?
- kathygnome
 A. 
Great topic to start with. One of the tricky issues for mainstream journalism is the middle ground between undeniable fact and opinion. I won't spend too much time quoting my old articles, today but
Lessons From the Malaise seems directly relevant to this question. In it, I wrote: "[Some] truths may not rise to the level of two plus two equals four, but they are not so different from the knowledge that the earth is round or that smoking causes cancer. 
The earth is not perfectly round, of course. Some smokers will never get cancer, while most cancer is not caused by smoking. Yet in the ways that matter most, the earth is still round, and smoking does cause cancer. Both of these facts are illustrative in another way, too: seemingly smart people spent decades denying them."
It's easy for us to deal with 2+2. And it's fairly easy for us to deal with an opinion, like "This policy should pass Congress;" we also quote someone who says it shouldn't. But the gray area is harder. And yet I think we need to deal with it: we sometimes need to look for ways to say which side in a debate has more claim on the available evidence.
A question for you (or another Redditor): which things that are "objectively false" do we not do a good enough job of explaining to be such?
 Q. 
Do you find the NYT.com paywall to be successful for the paper?
- ruinevil
 A. 
Yes, we do. We went to a pay model with great reluctance. ("Wall" isn't quite right word, given the various ways readers are able to get around it under certain circumstances.) But we are very pleased with how it's going. We have signed up more paying customers than we expected to have at this point, and our online traffic remains very strong.
It's a big reason I remain so confident about The Times's future. We have a very large audience, including many people who pay a substantial amount for our journalism, online or in print. That combination suggests there is a business model that will work quite well -- even if I can't predict exactly what it will be at this point.
You'd hear a more detailed answer from the people at the paper who are working on these issues. (I'm just a journalist.) But I think the bottom line would be the same.
 Q. 
I fully believe in the need for a vigilant press, but all this downsizing and shift to the web has me worried about journalistic standards.
So where do we go from here? Are we in danger of losing a responsible and reliable press?
- hereImIs
 A. 
I think the Web has created a more responsible press, with higher standards. Think how much easier it is for readers to point out flaws (or perceived flaws!) in a story today than in the past. You don't have to rely on our Letters to the Editor page or our Corrections process. You can write your own blog post or get the attention of a media critic (including our public editor, a job that didn't exist until a decade ago). Such criticism isn't always enjoyable -- and we don't always agree with it -- but there is little question that it makes us better at our jobs.
Beyond this new accountability, the Web has also allowed and required us to become much more innovative. Think of the tremendousinteractives that Amanda Cox, Steve Duenes, Matt Ericson, Kevin Quealy and all the NYT graphics editors produce.
Or think of all the real-time political coverage that Jeff Zeleny, Jim Rutenberg, Mike Shear and others provided during the presidential debates this year. Or the columns in the Business section, most of which are relatively new. Or the videos, like the celebrated one on hockey fighting. Or the Well blog, by Tara Parker-Pope.
Whichever of these features you like or don't like, I'm utterly persuaded that The Times is a better publication than it was in the past.
 Q. 
Do you see the next 4 years of congress being as roadblocked as the past 4 years? Who do you think will yield first?
- maculae
 A. 
I don't think the last four years were roadblocked. The last two, yes.
But whether you think it did great harm or great good, Congress and the Obama administration passed a lot of hugely important legislation in 2009 and 2010. The health-care bill, alone, is the most significant piece of legislation in decades, both because of how it changes the safety net and because how it attempts to reduce inequality. On top of the health-care bill, there were the changes to higher education and K-12, the Dodd-Frank bill and the climate bills and regulations I mentioned in another answer.
The last two years, though, were deadlocked, because Obama and Republican leaders in Congress agreed on very little. I expect the next four year will end up somewhere in between the first two years of Obama's first term and the second two years.
The looming "fiscal cliff" means that aspects of the current tax code is likely to change significantly. And the Republicans' concerns over their image among Latino voters means some kind of immigration bill seems likely to pass too.
 Q. 
Good to see you on here, David. TNR's Eliza Gray wrote today asking why NYT didn't cover Bradley Manning's recent hearing in Fort Meade, right outside DC: http://on.tnr.com/11Up9fF It was certainly newsworthy since Manning was actually there, in person, speaking for his case. I'm wondering whether you could give any insight here. Thanks, @katz.
- katz9187
 A. 
Thank you.
As it happens, I just sent the following email to our public editor, Margaret Sullivan, who also asked this question:
We've covered him and will continue to do so. But as with any other legal case, we won't cover every single proceeding. In this case, doing so would have involved multiple days of a reporter's time, for a relatively straightforward story. The A.P. article recounting the main points of Mr. Manning's testimony about his conditions of confinement that ran on page A3 of The Times conveyed fundamentally the same material as a staff story would have. And Charlie Savage covered his conditions of confinement, as they were being debated, in two previous articles: http://goo.gl/dvFV0, http://goo.gl/gYTX7. Again, though, readers can definitely expect more coverage of Mr. Manning in the weeks to come.
 A. 
Edit: We had a problem posting earlier and this was a duplicate of this answer.
 Q. 
Thank you for doing this AMA, Mr. Leonhardt.
1) Are there any issues that you feel are currently being overshadowed by the "fiscal cliff" debates? If so, what are they and who do they affect the most?
2) It has been widely said that young people, women, and minorities played a major role in determining the outcome of the recent elections - both at the national and local levels. But these groups never seem to have as much influence on the day-to-day operations of government. They are still under-represented as elected officials and outfunded by lobbying groups. So they are arguably less able to participate in the discussions and debates that shape legislation. How can these people continue to have their voices heard during the actual working days between elections?
- zzj
 A. 
On point 2: the single biggest thing younger people and minorities could do to could increase their political power is to vote in the midterm elections in the same numbers they do in presidential elections.
That's not a full answer to the question, I acknowledge. Money matters too. But voter turnout is something that people can control.
 Q. 
How do you navigate through the pack mentality and inherent spin that comes with covering the political beat to get at the so-called real stories?
And related to that- how much of the reporting that comes out of the Washington bureau are stories that your staff develops on their own vs. pitches that come from flacks or soundbites from press conferences?
Any reaction to the New York Post's decision to run a photo of a man about to be struck (and killed) by a train yesterday?
How has Twitter and social media impacted long form reporting?
Clearly, there's a need for print media to adapt to social media and twitter's a great resource for breaking news but does it hurt objectivity and exclusive scoops when journalists tweet snarky real time observations / and teasers?
Related to that- on the Internet, everyone is snarky- do you feel this has bled over to print? Wonkette's funny, but I value straight news and analysis vs. cleverness for pageviews sake. Has the internet made it impossible to be objective? Is it better journalism when- as some argue- people identity their biases from the start or when reporters actively try to keep the news to the story they are reporting?
- reddit20002
 A. 
Lots here. On the long-form question: long-form journalism is doing quite well, in fact. Many of our 5000-word or 8000-word NYT Magazine stories end up on our online Most Read, Most Blogged or Most Emailed list. Same goes for long investigative pieces and narrative pieces in the newspaper.
I do worry, theoretically, that people will have less interest in long-form journalism on screens. I certainly prefer long stories on paper. But so far, so good for long-form journalism.
 Q. 
So why isn't the NY Times covering the Manning trials? I mean you guys did use the sources.
- dsanz888
 A. 
See my answer above.
 Q. 
Hi, thanks very much for taking the time to do an IAMA. My questions are all about climate change:
* Can you give us an overall picture of the state of climate change legislation in Washington?
* Do you feel like the White House understands the scale of the threat? Does Congress?
* Has Hurricane Sandy done anything to change minds inside the beltway?
* Are there many people talking about the UN Climate Conference happening now in Doha?
* Do you have a gut feeling about whether we'll see a comprehensive plan to address climate change in Obama's 2nd term?
Again, thanks!
- science-pope
 A. 
I think the prospects of major climate-change legislation -- a cap-and-trade bill or carbon tax -- remain remote. There is too much opposition among Republicans (who can block it in the House) and among a subset of Democrats who represent coal or oil states in the Senate (who keep the Senate from getting to 50 votes, let alone 60). So I think it's essentially irrelevant whether Obama introduces a comprehensive bill.
But there is still a real question about how aggressively his administration will pursue other policies to address the climate. The policies the administration pursued in the first term have already had a substantial effect, playing a role in creating the recent wind and solar boom.
Will the administration push Congress to extend the wind and solar tax credit? And will Congress do so? Will Obama make a push on building standards, much as he did on fuel mileage-standards? How aggressive will the EPA be?
Even without a comprehensive bill, the White House has some big decisions about how much it wants to push on climate. I agree that Sandy makes it more likely Obama will make a push, and more likely any push would succeed. But I don't know how much more likely.
 Q. 
I am a young budding journalist. I am confronted by many differing opinions on what is to become of print journalism as blogs and Twitter seem to be taking much of the gusto of newspapers. Give us a forecast on the future of Journalism, the printed word, and comprehensive investigative reporting.
- shabazz_k_morton
 A. 
The future of journalism is assured, I think. Journalism -- facts and narration -- predates newspapers and will outlast newspapers.
The future of the printed word -- that is, newspapers as we know them today -- seems less certain. As a reader, I would be terribly sad not to wake up to printed copies of the NYT and Washington Post, among other papers. As a writer and editor, I don't have a preference about whether people are reading our journalism on paper or a screen.
 Q. 
What's something the average redditor can do about the sad state of journalism in the US?
- WhatIsTheQOfLife
 A. 
Read good journalism. And support it economically: subscribe to publications you value (in print or online). If a publication doesn't charge, make a point of clicking on ads that catch your interest.
(As I say above, I don't actually think the state of journalism is sad. It's imperfect but better than ever.)
 Q. 
Who do you think has the most to lose with the debt negotiations, and how do you see them playing out?
- jtorsella
 A. 
Each side has something to lose.
At any one time, there is only one president, and he tends to get credit or blame for the state of the economy. In this way, a stalemate could do great damage to Obama and his second term. Ramesh Ponnuru has made this argument, about GOP leverage.
On the other hand, Obama just won re-election, and he has public opinion on his side, at least on the high-end taxes. Early polling suggests voters are more likely to blame Republicans for a stalemate.
 Q. 
What do you think of Nate Silver?
- hardleaningwork
 A. 
I'm a big fan: The Times's Washington Bureau Chief , and Legions of Others, in Defense of Nate Silver | The Public Editor - NYTimes.com
 Q. 
I want to talk about the debt negotiations! Why isnt the fact that us long term debt has low yields news? Or even part of the mainstream discussion? The federal government can still borrow for a very very low price, one of the lowest prices in decades. This is unlike the European situation where debt, especially Greek debt, is very expensive for the sovereign entities. Why isn't this being discussed? We are after all about to hit a completely artificial and self inflicted barrier. Why isn't any attention paid to that? This crisis is man made not market made. Why aren't unemployment and low growth considered larger problems? Even if you think the debt "crisis" is the end of the world why do people think that we will be able to pay off our debt with a shrinking taxable base?
Over the past two years we have seen downgrades from ratings agencies on advanced industrial nations that print their own currency and are almost politically stable that have had no effect at all on those states' ability to borrow. Why aren't these simple economic indicators discussed more widely?
- No_Easy_Buckets
 A. 
We do write about the low yields, but I'm open to the idea that we should do so more often. Thanks for the suggestion.
The United States obviously does not appear to be on the verge of a debt crisis that resembles Greece in any significant way. But we do have a serious long-term problem. As a country, we've voted ourselves more benefits -- principally Medicare -- than we are willing to finance in taxes. At some point, this gap needs to close. And for all the talk about the deficit -- from politicians, media figures and voters -- most Americans oppose tax hikes or spending cuts that personally affect them. (The next time you hear someone say politicians should just be reasonable and fix the problem, ask that person which tax increases and Medicare cuts he or she favors.)
The looming fiscal deadline is artificial in many ways. But it also represents a chance for Washington to make a dent in this problem -- or to make it worse.
 Q. 
Where do you see the negotiations going in terms of the division within the GOP? Especially given that Boehner has been facing a lot of heat from the fiscally conservative, Tea Party wing of the party?
Better yet, do you think the outcome of the 2012 election will see the GOP going further to the right, left, or staying right where it is?
- yep45
 A. 
That's clearly one of the more important questions in Washington today.
Conservative Republicans deeply believe that their proposals are better than the president's, and the election's outcome won't change that. Many Congressional Republicans are also at little risk of losing their seat for moving too far right. If anything, they're at greater risk of facing a primary from the right.
But there are also Republican leaders who are unhappy about having lost the presidency in four of the last 6 elections. (And the two Republican wins were closer than any of the four Democratic wins; one Republican win, of course, came despite the popular vote.) They want to find a way to move to the center on a range of issues. I think that's why you see movement from the Republicans on the question of whether the government should raise more tax revenue.
A shameless plug: our Capitol Hill correspondents -- starting with Jennifer Steinhauer and Jonathan Weisman -- have been doing great work on these issues, and I encourage you to read them.
 Q. 
What is one issue you really wanted to cover but were unable to?
- WinstonRutherford
 A. 
China, full time. I've written a magazine story about China. But I would love to cover it more fully -- economically, culturally and politically. And a lot of articles about the food, deeply reported.
 Q. 
What was your most favorite course you took in college?
- hukech
 A. 
Fun to think about this. Probably a tie among: introductory physics; an interdisciplinary course on the art and literature of the 16th century; and a seminar, with Steve Gillon, on race in America.
 Q. 
I noticed that you have a degree in applied math. Has this helped you in any way? Also, how might a math person interested in journalism work their way into the industry in the present day?
- HoustonEuler
 A. 
Yes, it certainly has. Not so much the higher-level college math (which I wasn't great at, anyway), but quantitative reasoning is enormously important to good journalism. The most obvious way I've used math in journalism is probably: You Fix the Budget
How might a math person do good journalism? Look for opportunities to write material that no one else is writing. Are there ways that numbers illuminate reality that others haven't noticed? Jump on them, and present your ideas. For starters, I might recommend you read some John Allen Paulos or Edward Tufte.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (91%); SMOKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); CARCINOGENS (90%); CANCER (90%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (75%) The Caucus

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



169 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Lawsuit Claims Racial Discrimination at a Building in Sunnyside

BYLINE: DANIELLA SILVA


HIGHLIGHT: Race-dependent availability of apartments was a pattern at a 107-unit building in Sunnyside, according to the Fair Housing Justice Center, a nonprofit group that filed a federal lawsuit on Wednesday. 

 BODY:
In February, according to a lawsuit, when Lisa Darden went to a building in Sunnyside, Queens, and inquired about a one-bedroom apartment, the superintendent told her there were none available, and that he did not know when one might be.
Just over an hour later, the lawsuit states, another woman made the same inquiry. This time, the superintendent showed her a vacant apartment, told her he'd knock $100 off the rent because she was "nice people," and handed her a rental application, according to the suit. 
Ms. Darden is African-American, the other woman is white. The race-dependent availability of apartments was a pattern at the 107-unit apartment , according to the Fair Housing Justice Center, a nonprofit group that sent both women out as discrimination "testers."
The justice center and three African-American testers filed a federal lawsuit on Wednesday against the building's owner, the Nasa Real Estate Corporation, and the building's superintendent, Irfan Bekdemir, who the suit said acted as Nasa's agent. 
According to the complaint (see also below), filed in federal court for the Eastern District in Brooklyn, the three African-American testers were prevented from viewing apartments on separate occasions in February. 
Mr. Bekdemir also quoted higher rents to the African-American testers, the complaint states, telling Ms. Darden that rents were generally between $1,500 and $1,700, while telling the white tester who followed her that he could rent her the apartment for $1,400.
 "This building is choice people. Not everybody," Mr. Bekdemir told the white tester, according to the complaint.
Elizabeth S. Saylor, a lawyer of the firm Emery Celli Brinckerhoff & Abady who is representing the plaintiffs, said that investigations like the one conducted by the justice center were one of the only ways to expose discrimination. 
"Systemic housing discrimination still persists throughout New York City, and most of this discrimination is not known because of the subtle and stealthy nature of the housing discrimination," she said. "He did not tell the African-American testers you can't live there because they're black. They wouldn't even know they were being discriminated against if it wasn't for what he told the white testers."
Bruno Ilibassi, who is listed as the principal executive of Nasa Real Estate Corporation, did not return a request for comment left with someone who answered the phone at his office. Someone who answered the phone at Mr. Bekdemir's apartment said he was not available and would not give a time when he would be.
The investigation was prompted by the neighborhood's demographics: black households make up 2 percent of the renters in the eight-square-block census tract that the building sits in, while they make up 18 percent of renter households in Queens, the justice center said.
The plaintiffs are seeking damages as well as other forms of relief, such as "the creation of non-discriminatory policies, training, and monitoring." 
The justice center has been involved in similar lawsuits throughout New York state. 

Housing Discrimination Complaint (PDF)

Housing Discrimination Complaint (Text)

        
A Hooters in Queens Is Sued for Racial Discrimination
        
Ex-Workers Sue Restaurant; New Law Firm Is Formed
        
Tenants in Storm-Damaged Lower Manhattan Are Filing Lawsuits
        
At Elite Schools, a Single Test Comes Under Review
        
Judge Cites Bias in Halting Brooklyn Development Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (97%); RACE & RACISM (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (61%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (61%); CENSUS (50%) Discrimination; Sunnyside; Blacks; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Suits and Litigation; Sunnyside (NYC); Courts and Law; Housing & Economy; Queens

COMPANY: EMERY CELLI BRINCKERHOFF & ABADY LLP (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Sunnyside (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



170 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2754 words

HEADLINE: Trail to a Hedge Fund, From a Cluster of Cases

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Federal investigators have charged many former employees of SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, with trading on insider information. 

 BODY:
In April 2009, an F.B.I. agent visited the Silicon Valley home of Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a hedge fund manager with deep contacts inside technology companies. The government, the agent said, had overwhelming proof that Mr. Lee had engaged in insider trading. Within weeks, Mr. Lee confessed and began cooperating.
A year and a half later, in the parking lot of a New England prep school, the same agent approached Noah Freeman, a Harvard-educated money manager turned teacher. After the agent played a secretly recorded conversation of Mr. Freeman swapping illegal tips, Mr. Freeman admitted to crimes and started assisting the authorities.
Last winter, another agent confronted Mathew Martoma, a pharmaceutical-industry analyst, at his 8,000-square-foot Florida mansion. As they stood on the front lawn, with Mr. Martoma's wife and children inside, the agent told him that they had evidence that he had broken the law. 
 Overcome with stress, Mr. Martoma passed out.
Three criminal defendants - Mr. Lee, Mr. Freeman and Mr. Martoma - have a common denominator: Each had worked for SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, one of the most powerful figures in finance. By posting impressive annual returns averaging 30 percent across two decades, Mr. Cohen, a 56-year-old Long Island native, has amassed a fortune estimated at nearly $9 billion.
Mr. Cohen has not been accused of any wrongdoing and he may never be charged, but he has become a central focus of the government's sprawling investigation into criminal conduct at hedge funds. A picture of the inquiry has emerged from interviews with people involved with the case.
The trail leading to SAC has emerged out of a cluster of cases, many of them connected to the prosecution of the fallen titan Raj Rajaratnam. Investigators heard SAC traders on incriminating wiretaps; in other instances, cooperators and informants accused the fund of misconduct. As the authorities painstakingly pieced together dozens of cases across multiple, overlapping conspiracies, again and again one name kept popping up: Mr. Cohen's SAC.
Investigators have penetrated SAC and other funds by aggressively deploying techniques - wiretaps, cooperators and informants - once reserved for infiltrating the Mafia and narcotics rings. Government lawyers have reviewed millions of pages of documents and taken hundreds of depositions. Securities watchdogs, meanwhile, have developed more sophisticated methods to detect insider trading, which is defined as trading based on material, nonpublic information.
The long-running inquiry has linked six former SAC employees to insider trading while at the fund; three, including Jon Horvath, who has implicated one of Mr. Cohen's top lieutenants, have pleaded guilty. At least six other former employees have been tied to insider trading after leaving SAC. Several more have received subpoenas, people briefed on the case say.
Since 2002, the financial industry's self-regulatory groups have referred about 80 instances of suspicious SAC trading activity to federal authorities for further investigation. In 2007, as the citations piled up, the self-regulatory groups took a more aggressive tone, noting that the hedge fund had been "repeatedly" flagged for suspicious trading. (An SAC spokesman has said that the fund trades in thousands of stocks each day, so given its level of activity it is not surprising that the fund would show up in referrals.)
"Government lawyers go where the facts take them," said H. David Kotz, a former inspector general at the Securities and Exchange Commission now with Berkeley Research, a consulting firm. "With so many disparate strands of the investigation leading to SAC, it makes perfect sense that they would be closely looking at the guy in charge."
And they are looking very closely. A few years ago, the F.B.I. secretly recorded the telephone line at Mr. Cohen's Greenwich, Conn., estate, said two people briefed on the investigation. It is unclear what precipitated the wiretapping and whether any evidence was collected. Federal securities regulators have had previous brushes with SAC in 2003 and Mr. Cohen in 1986, but neither inquiry resulted in any action. Last summer, S.E.C. lawyers deposed him.
Speaking to his roughly 1,000 employees last week, Mr. Cohen expressed confidence that he acted appropriately. In defending the fund, SAC cites its strong culture of compliance and says it is "outraged" and "deeply disturbed" by the conduct of former employees.
But with Mr. Martoma's arrest Nov. 20 - the first case that directly ties Mr. Cohen to questionable trades - the investigation has entered a more serious phase. The S.E.C. warned the fund that it was preparing a civil fraud lawsuit against SAC related to Mr. Martoma's case. A lawyer for Mr. Martoma, Charles A. Stillman, said that he expected his client to be exonerated.
And just as it did in the investigation of Mr. Rajaratnam and in the landmark 1980s prosecutions of the financial giants of that era, Michael R. Milken and Ivan F. Boesky, the government is pursuing lower-level employees and then seeking their cooperation in the hopes of building a case against the boss.
 C. B. Lee 
Had he made different career choices, Richard Choo-Beng Lee might have been an engineer at Apple or Intel. Instead, armed with a computer science degree and a knack for numbers, Mr. Lee became a star technology analyst on Wall Street.
Known as C. B., Mr. Lee worked in the 1990s at the brokerage firm Needham & Company alongside Mr. Rajaratnam. In 1999, Mr. Lee landed at SAC, where he earned millions working for a team of tech-stock traders. After five years, he left, and in 2008 started his own California-based hedge fund, Spherix Capital.
That same year, a government informant taped incriminating calls with Mr. Rajaratnam, who by then had become a billionaire running the Galleon Group. On the basis of those calls, prosecutors received a judge's approval to wiretap Mr. Rajaratnam's cellphone. They also received permission to eavesdrop on Danielle Chiesi, a close associate of Mr. Rajaratnam. Ms. Chiesi was heard on calls with Mr. Lee passing inside information.
B. J. Kang, an F.B.I. agent, showed up at Mr. Lee's modest San Jose, Calif., home in 2009. After pleading guilty, he closed Spherix Capital and became a cooperator, recording conversations that helped ensnare several defendants.
Securing Mr. Lee's cooperation proved to be a major breakthrough because he helped them better understand SAC's trading practices and culture. As part of Mr. Lee's plea agreement, he agreed to share information about illegal conduct that he saw while working for Mr. Cohen.
He also provided investigators with detailed insights into expert-network firms, a growing business that connected traders with sources at publicly traded companies. Mr. Lee said SAC and other funds aggressively used these matchmaking firms, some of which were cesspools of inside information.
A few months after Mr. Lee "flipped," the F.B.I. directed him to try to get rehired by SAC, said a person briefed on the case. Mr. Cohen entertained his request but ultimately rebuffed him, leery that Mr. Lee had abruptly closed his fund, this person said.
Jeffrey Bornstein, a lawyer for Mr. Lee, 56, said that his client continues to cooperate with the government.
 Noah Freeman 
When Noah Freeman graduated from Harvard in 1999, the stock market was roaring. After a stint in management consulting, Mr. Freeman tried his hand at hedge funds. He started at Brookside Capital, a unit of Bain Capital.
Mr. Freeman joined SAC in 2008, lured by a two-year, $2 million-a-year guarantee. The fund gave him several hundred millions of dollars to manage.
Mr. Freeman routinely shared his best ideas with Mr. Cohen. Unlike hedge funds with one manager making investment decisions, SAC has about 140 teams - each controlling several hundred millions of dollars. The teams give their "high conviction ideas" to Mr. Cohen, who directly manages only about 10 percent of the fund. SAC compensates employees based on a percentage of the winnings they generate for the fund, as well as on profits they make for Mr. Cohen's portfolio.
An accomplished speed skater and triathlete, Mr. Freeman thrived in the high-stress world of hedge funds. But the pressure to perform was immense. To help gain an edge, Mr. Freeman became a big user of expert networks, especially Primary Global Research. His principal contact at Primary Global was Winifred Jiau.
Mr. Lee and other informants had told government investigators that Primary Global was especially dirty, and investigators began listening to its phone calls. On one call in May 2008, Ms. Jiau was heard giving Mr. Freeman inside tips about Marvell Technology. Mr. Freeman shared the information with Donald Longueuil, who used it to earn more than $1 million in profits.
SAC fired Mr. Freeman in 2010 for poor performance, according to a fund spokesman. Disillusioned with Wall Street, Mr. Freeman went into education. He took a job teaching honors economics at the Winsor School, a prestigious all-girls school in Boston. One day, in November 2010, Mr. Kang, the F.B.I. agent, was waiting for Mr. Freeman in the parking lot of Winsor.
As a government cooperator, Mr. Freeman wore a wire and secretly recorded conversations with Mr. Longueuil, who also joined SAC and had been the best man at his wedding. Mr. Longueuil is serving a two-and-a-half year sentence.
In a Dec. 16, 2010 interview, Mr. Freeman told investigators that he thought that trafficking in corporate secrets was part of his job description at SAC, according to an F.B.I. agent's notes of the interview, which were in a court filing and first reported by Bloomberg News.
"Freeman and others at SAC Capital understood that providing Cohen with your best trading ideas involved providing Cohen with inside information," the agent wrote.
Prosecutors announced charges against Mr. Freeman and Mr. Longueuil in February 2011. Primary Global has closed. Ms. Jiau, who was found guilty at trial, is in prison. At her trial, Mr. Freeman testified that he gave investigators the names of at least a dozen people who he believed were involved in criminal conduct.
Mr. Freeman, 36, who has yet to be sentenced, is currently a stay-at-home father, and his cooperation could spare him prison time. His lawyer, Benjamin E. Rosenberg, declined to comment.
 Jon Horvath 
In November 2010, the F.B.I. raided two hedge funds that heavily used expert-network firms: Level Global Investors and Diamondback Capital Management. Both had strong ties to Mr. Cohen; each was started by SAC alumni.
Fourteen months after the raid, prosecutors charged seven traders - including two each from Level Global and Diamondback - in what it called a "criminal club" that made nearly $70 million trading on secret information gleaned from sources inside technology companies.
Among those arrested was Jon Horvath, an SAC tech-stock analyst who once worked at Lehman Brothers. Low key and analytic, Mr. Horvath lacked the swagger of many of his peers. For months, he maintained his innocence.
But in September, a month before trial, Mr. Horvath admitted to insider trading while at SAC and agreed to cooperate. In court, Mr. Horvath said that he - along with his SAC manager - traded on confidential financial results. "In each instance I provided the information to the portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the stocks based on that information," he said.
The portfolio manager is Michael S. Steinberg, according to two people briefed on the inquiry. Prosecutors have not charged him, but have named him an unindicted co-conspirator.
Barry Berke, a lawyer for Mr. Steinberg, 40, and Steven Peikin, a lawyer for Mr. Horvath, 42, declined to comment.
Though recently placed on leave, Mr. Steinberg is one of SAC's longest-tenured employees. He joined in 1997, when it was just Mr. Cohen and several dozen traders; for years, he sat near Mr. Cohen on the trading floor and the two grew close. When Mr. Steinberg was married in 1999 at the Plaza Hotel, Mr. Cohen attended the black-tie affair.
 Mathew Martoma 
In 2008, a team of S.E.C. enforcement lawyers in New York, led by Sanjay Wadhwa, noticed a pattern in the "suspicious trading reports." CR Intrinsic Investors, a unit of SAC Capital, had made an uncanny string of immensely profitable, well-timed trades in technology and health care stocks. Their suspicions raised, the team requested more trading reports from the regulatory arm of the New York Stock Exchange. Huge bets by CR Intrinsic on the pharmaceutical companies Elan and Wyeth, placed just before they announced disappointing results from a drug trial, jumped off the page.
The S.E.C. issued a subpoena requesting that SAC produce documents - e-mails, instant messages, phone and trading records - connected to the unusual trades. As they combed through e-mails, S.E.C. lawyers discovered reams of correspondence between Mathew Martoma, a drug stock specialist at CR Intrinsic, and Dr. Sidney Gilman, a neurologist.
Two days before Thanksgiving, federal agents arrested Mr. Martoma. Prosecutors said that Dr. Gilman had leaked him secret data about clinical trials that he was overseeing for an Alzheimer's drug being jointly developed by Elan and Wyeth.
The case was a turning point in the investigation of SAC because, for the first time, the government linked Mr. Cohen to trades that it contends were illegal. Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen collaborated on the Elan and Wyeth transactions, prosecutors said, earning SAC profits and avoiding losses totaling $276 million. After Mr. Martoma learned from Dr. Gilman - whom he met through an expert network - that there were problems with the trials, he reached out to his boss, the government said.
"Is there a good time to catch up with you this morning? It's important," Mr. Martoma e-mailed Mr. Cohen in July 2008, just days before Elan and Wyeth announced their findings.
An hour later, Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen had a 20-minute telephone conversation. SAC promptly sold a $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth and then made a big negative bet. After the drug companies released the negative data, their shares plummeted.
An S.E.C. lawyer interviewed Mr. Cohen about the Elan and Wyeth trades this summer, according to a person briefed on the case. In sworn testimony, he said that SAC sold the stocks because Mr. Martoma told him that he had lost conviction in the position, this person said. Otherwise, Mr. Cohen had little recall of their conversation.
Federal agents paid a house call to Mr. Martoma a year ago, pressuring him to "flip" and help build a case against Mr. Cohen. While speaking with the agents in his front yard, Mr. Martoma fainted. After picking himself up, he declined to cooperate. When the S.E.C. deposed him earlier this year, Mr. Martoma refused to answer questions, invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
The government has said it will not prosecute Dr. Gilman, who has agreed to testify against Mr. Martoma.
SAC continues to operate during the intensifying investigation. The negative attention and controversy aggravates and angers Mr. Cohen, said a friend, but his ability to compartmentalize allows him to maintain a focus on investing.
An SAC spokesman said Wednesday that Mr. Cohen is cooperating with the government's inquiry.
During market hours, Mr. Cohen can be found at the center of his football field-size trading floor in Stamford, Conn., sitting among his traders, sifting through information, and buying and selling stocks. SAC, which manages $14 billion, is up about 12 percent this year through the end of last month.
"None of this stuff is material to his returns and it's all just a lot of noise," said Ed Butowsky, managing partner of Chapwood Investments, a longtime SAC client. "Steve Cohen is the Michael Jordan of the hedge fund business. When people are successful everyone likes to take shots at them."
 Ben Protess contributed reporting. 
An earlier version of this article referred imprecisely to illegal trading by two former SAC employees. While the two former employees, Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, pleaded guilty to participating in an insider-trading conspiracy while working at SAC, one of the illegal trades that was part of the conspiracy charge and was highlighted in the article -trading in shares of Marvell Technology - took place weeks before they joined SAC. 

        
SAC Capital to Try to Reassure Investors
        
New Breed of SAC Capital Hire Is at Center of Insider Trading Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); WIRETAPPING (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSPIRACY (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); DEPOSITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SUBPOENAS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%) Cohen, Steven A; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Hedge Funds; Insider Trading; Lee, Richard Choo-Beng; Martoma, Mathew; SAC Capital Advisors; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%) Federal Bureau of Investigation; SAC Capital Advisors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (90%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (58%) Cohen, Steven A; Lee, Richard Choo-Beng; Martoma, Mathew

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



171 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Part 3: College Students Answer Reader Questions on Admissions and Campus Life

BYLINE: HANNAH STEINHARDT and TANYA ABRAMS


HIGHLIGHT: Two college students who wrote for our student-led series "The Envelope, Please" are answering questions about going to college. Part 3. 

 BODY:
The Choice has invited two of our former student bloggers of "The Envelope, Please" series to stop by our virtual Guidance Office and answer reader questions about the admissions process and what college life is like after you've made your choice. 
Abigail Hansen , who blogged about her college search last school year, is now a freshman at the University of Minnesota, where she is studying animal science.
Michael Campbell was one of six seniors from Cherry Creek High School in Denver to blog about his college search from fall 2010 to spring 2011. He is now a sophomore at the College of William and Mary, where he is studying international relations.
Now that these former college applicants are college students, we've asked them to share their firsthand experiences with readers of The Choice, in the hopes that their perspectives will offer guidance to students who are still navigating the college admissions process. 
In this part of our series, Ms. Hansen and Mr. Campbell respond to questions about finding an essay topic and choosing a major. Questions and answers have been edited, including for length and style.
 Selecting an Essay Topic 
 Q. 
 What topic did you choose for your personal statement, and how long did it take you to finish it? Looking back, is there anything you would change in that personal statement? 
- Phuong
 A. 
 Mr. Campbell: As with many of my essays, my personal statement spent more time as fragments in my head than as a cohesive composition on paper.
Essay writing was my favorite part of the application process because the personal statement was the main part of the application over which I had in-the-moment control. Test scores were in, and grades were what they were; the essays were my main chance to make a difference. But I struggled with getting me on the page.
I knew I wanted to portray my personality and progression. I hoped to convey my international life experience. But I also wanted to show that I maybe knew how to be fun.
So I wrote about Pokémon. Specifically, my essay recounted a second-grade night trading cards in Italy in a language I didn't speak or understand. The writing itself didn't take more than a day, but a lack of inspiration had for weeks prevented me from getting any semblance of myself into words in Word. I slept on it and made some minor grammatical edits the next morning, but I didn't change any major themes or styling. I wanted it to sound like and be me, not the second-guessing perfectionist I sometimes see in the mirror.
I wouldn't change anything in my personal statement if I had the choice today. I think it represented the person I was at the time and the person I've always been. We could each tell a thousand tales that would, in some way, reveal who we think we are, but you can submit only one. If you write a statement with which you're less than thrilled or that isn't you, write another. Maybe two or three more. There's certainly nothing wrong with a choice between many representations of the same you.
 Ms. Hansen: Only one of the three schools I applied to required personal statements: University of Wisconsin-Madison. However, many of the scholarships for which I applied required some type of personal essay, and I found that I could recycle my personal statements for those, too.
I ultimately wrote two statements. One had to be about career goals; the other could be about anything I wanted. I wrote the career goal essay fairly easily, outlining how I had wanted to be a veterinarian since I was 8 and how the university could help me achieve that goal. For the second one, I chose to write about my love of school. I figured that a college should be aware that I am a person who is truly passionate about furthering one's education and that I would bring that passion to their campus.
I wrote my statements in a surprisingly short amount of time initially, but spent about a month revising them and thinking about them. My senior English teacher and the writing center at my school were both very helpful resources.
Looking back, of course, there are some nitpicky things I would change about my writing. I would not, however, change my overall topic. Statements give you an opportunity to present a unique, personal and honest side of yourself, and I believe I accomplished that. 
 Choosing a Major 
 Q. 
 What influenced you to select your major? Do you still believe it is the right choice, now that you're in college? 
- Teresa Hall
 A. 
 Ms. Hansen: I have wanted to be a veterinarian since I was 8 years old, so choosing my major was the easiest part of my college search.
Technically, I could major in whatever I wanted, as long as I fulfilled the prerequisites for veterinary school. For me, it made sense to major in something with a lot of overlap of major course and prerequisite classes, so I chose to study animal science. I wanted to graduate as soon as possible, rather than being bogged down with the need to take a lot of extra courses. Also, the hands-on experience with animals that I will gain will be very helpful in vet school.
I've definitely had my doubts about my major. I do not want to graduate with an animal science degree and then not be able to get into veterinary school; the jobs that would be open to me are mainly in food animal production, and this really does not interest me. If I want to stay on track to graduate in four years, I have until the end of my freshman year to decide if I want to stay with my major or switch it. Right now, I'm waiting to see how freshman year goes before making any hasty decisions.
 Mr. Campbell: My life experiences and world interests influenced my general fascination with international affairs and politics. Classes in economics and history in high school pushed me to think beyond government as an exclusive area of study, and so I widened my academic focus and narrowed my major choice to one in international relations.
At William & Mary, international relations is an interdisciplinary major that draws classes and professors from many departments and fields, and as such I didn't have to worry about transferring between schools within the university.
After nearly three semesters of study I remain enthusiastic about my choice of majors. In my freshman year I focused most of my coursework on classes in my major, rather than general liberal arts requirements, because I was confident in my area of interest. These classes in government, foreign language and economics confirmed my choice, and I officially declared my major this semester.
That said, many friends who were also prospective international relations majors have now changed direction and chosen to pursue degrees in areas like government, economics or global studies. Similarly, other friends who were previously uninterested in international relations have since considered it more seriously after enjoying classes in international politics.
Most of the universities to which I applied ask their admitted students to select an intended major. But in no case, in my experience, was this binding or even a strong indicator of the path you'll end up pursuing or the classes you'll take in your first year.
 Updated: Our panelists are no longer taking questions. However, if you'd like to further discuss college life or the application process, please share your thoughts in the comment box below. 

        
Part 4: College Students Answer Reader Questions on Admissions and Campus Life
        
Part 2: College Students Answer Reader Questions on Admissions and Campus Life
        
December College Checklist for Seniors
        
Spare Me Your Glossy College Postcards
        
In the Early Admissions Waiting Room, Fighting Off Jitters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Education (K-12); College of William and Mary; University of Minnesota; University of Wisconsin-Madison; Applying to College; Choosing a College; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Guidance Office

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%) College of William and Mary; University of Minnesota; University of Wisconsin-Madison

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (57%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012



172 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Too Much Stuff Last Year

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: On Dec. 1, in the midst of holiday shopping, I received a calendar alert from myself, sent last December: "too much stuff last year." 

 BODY:
On Dec. 1, I received, by e-mail, a message from myself - a calendar alert: "too much stuff last year."
That's it. I did not, apparently, feel the need to expand on my words, but I can guess when I sent them - last Dec. 25. The adorable pictures of my pajama-clad children in front of the tree before opening gifts on Christmas morning also reveal piles of wrapped gifts behind them, gifts that took us all morning to open. Too many gifts. Too many to appreciate and too many to enjoy. Days later, books and games that would have been embraced with excitement at any other time sat untouched. 
Piles of gifts under the Christmas tree are a tradition in my family, and many others. Some families give eight gifts of increasing magnitude for Hanukkah (which we celebrate with a family activity or game every night). But what's in the boxes has changed. Things that once came as gifts, like clothes, new shoes or sports equipment, have become "needs" that we fill at any time. We want the children to read, so we don't make them wait for the next book in a favorite series. We want them to exercise, so bikes of the right size don't appear under the tree in snowy December - they arrive or are handed down as a matter of course every spring. When I was 6, my gifts would have included only a few "things to play with." Now, my own children (who are 6, 7, 8 and 11) very rarely unwrap anything else.
The relative cost of toys, too, has changed. In 1978 a Hungry Hungry Hippos game cost $7.44. Today it's $12.99 at Toys "R" Us. Something highly desirable in the 1970s - for example, a "Charlie's Angels" doll - cost about $4. Today, a similar Disney Princess would cost about $9.99. The national average wagein the United States is more than four times what it was in the mid-'70s, but comparable toys don't cost four times as much, nor do clothes. Consumer goods are cheap and plentiful and we're used to buying.
The result is that even on a budget and even in tough economic times, it's all too easy to buy too much - because "too much" for a child doesn't have anything to do with how much you spend. Too many dollar store knickknacks are just as bad as too many expensive video games. At our house, that meant gift overload. Family members saw overwhelmed, unappreciative children. And I saw a situation I didn't want to repeat.
So: too much stuff last year. Every year, my mother and I promise that we "won't go overboard" this time, and then we fail to keep our promise. There's something a little different about seeing my own words in my inbox. Message received, last year's self - and forwarded to Grandma.
Do you go overboard with holiday buying, and what's helped you rein it in? One thing that led to our excess last year was my late realization that every child wanted to buy gifts for every other child and family member - additional small gifts each that added immeasurably to our pleasure in the holiday (the children proved to really enjoy budgeting, shopping and giving) but also added to the sheer volume of presents. I won't make that mistake again. Any other holiday mistakes you're hoping to avoid in 2012?

        
How to Be a Jew at Christmas
        
Gifting, or Not, on Hanukkah's Eight Nights
        
Coming Out by Christmas Card
        
Striving for 'Gift Parity' for Siblings
        
To Elf or Not to Elf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (75%); PARENTING (72%); SPORTS (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); HANUKKAH (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Christmas; Families and Family Life; Gifts; Parenting; Toys; Holidays

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012



173 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: HSBC's Big Asset Sale in China

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: HSBC Holdings is selling its stake in Ping An Insurance. | CVC Capital Partners' Formula One investment is jeopardized by a legal battle. | Elizabeth Warren, Wall Street's least favorite senator-elect, may land an even more powerful role. | Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former Treasury secretary, writes about China in The New York Times. 

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings is selling a major asset in China for $9.4 billion. The European bank, which has been streamlining its business, said on Wednesday that it would sell its entire 15.6 percent stake in Ping An Insurance, the big insurer based in Shenzhen, to the Charoen Pokphand Group, which is controlled by the Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont. HSBC expects to book an after-tax gain of $2.6 billion on completion of the deal.
It is the latest sale for HSBC, which has sold more than 40 noncore assets since the beginning of 2011 and booked about $4 billion in gains on those sales this year alone, DealBook reports. The latest transaction "represents further progress in the execution of the group's strategy," Stuart T. Gulliver, the chief executive, said in a statement. Shares of Ping An rose above the stake sale price on Wednesday. The New York Times reported last month that relatives of Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister, once controlled a significant stake in Ping An through an investment vehicle, according to corporate records; it is unclear whether the relatives still hold any stake in the insurer. 
 FORMULA ONE'S LEGAL MESS | On its face, the investment by CVC Capital Partners in Formula One seems like a winner. But thanks to recent lawsuits, "this enormously rewarding investment may now be in jeopardy," Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. A firm that was a competing bidder for Formula One, Bluewaters Communications Holdings, recently sued CVC, the bank BayernLB and Bernie Ecclestone, the Englishman who built the racing business. The claims are over a payment that has already been a source of legal headaches. Bluewaters says the payment was to "steer the sale of Formula One to CVC," Mr. Davidoff writes, and the firm is "claiming at least $650 million in damages, the lost profit it would have earned had it bought Formula One."
WARREN TO SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE? | Wall Street's least favorite senator-elect may be stepping into an even more powerful role. Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard professor who won a Senate seat from Massachusetts in November, is expected to be chosen to serve on the Senate Banking Committee, according to The Huffington Post. That would give Ms. Warren more influence over laws and regulations affecting the financial industry, not to mention a prominent platform for her views. The formal decision will not be made until next year, after the Senate Democratic caucus votes, The Wall Street Journal notes.
While Ms. Warren's star rises, another well-known lawmaker, Barney Frank, is getting ready to leave office. Mr. Frank, the outspoken Democrat who lent his name to the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, told DealBook's Ben Protess that ushering the law through Congress was a "major effort." When asked how the law could have been improved, Mr. Frank said: "In no rational world would you have a separate Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, so that one I would like to have changed." Mr. Frank's successor as the ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee will be Representative Maxine Waters, the California Democrat and critic of Wall Street.
ON THE AGENDA | The president of the Blackstone Group, Hamilton E. James, is presenting at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference at 8:10 a.m. Citigroup's chief financial officer, John Gerspach, is presenting at the conference at 12:35 p.m. Joseph Kennedy, chief executive of Pandora Media, is on CNBC at 11:40 a.m. The ADP national employment report is out at 8:15 a.m. A report on factory orders for October is out at 10 a.m., as is the ISM nonmanufacturing survey for November.
PAULSON ON CHINA | Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former Treasury secretary and Goldman Sachs chief executive, writes in an Op-Ed essay in The New York Times that China's cities "offer a potential solution" to the country's economic problems. Mr. Paulson, an expert on China, writes: "A flawed system of municipal finance is driving debt, corruption and dissent, while unsustainable urban planning has yielded polluted cities that are destroying China's ecosystem. Yet China's future requires continued urbanization, which, absent a new approach, will only make the problem worse." He offers a proposal: "Among other changes, China's cities need transparent budgets and the devolution of more tax authority to cities."
An avid bird-watcher, Mr. Paulson laments China's air quality. "Gazing out my hotel window in Beijing on a recent trip, I saw air that was hazy and polluted - a stark contrast to the sparkling view of Lake Michigan I enjoy from my kitchen window at home in Chicago."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Seacrest Buys Control of Marketing Agency | The television host Ryan Seacrest "has bought a controlling stake in the Civic Entertainment Group, a 12-year-old marketing agency that has helped to create events like the CNN Grill and NBC's Education Nation," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Freeport Said to Plan Acquisitions in Energy Sector | The Financial Times reports: "Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold is planning big acquisitions in the oil and gas sector, a multibillion-dollar move that would take the U.S. mining group back to its roots as an energy producer, according to several people familiar with the matter." FINANCIAL TIMES
EADS Shareholders Said to Reach Preliminary Restructuring Deal | Reuters reports that the shareholders "are working out final legal technicalities before announcing a shake-up of the European aerospace group, two people familiar with the matter said." REUTERS
After Defeat, Icahn Drops Oshkosh Tender Offer | The activist investor Carl C. Icahn said he was dropping a tender offer for shares in the Oshkosh Corporation, after failing to collect at least 25 percent of the truck maker's stock. DealBook »
Diageo Expresses Interest in Buying the Rest of Ketel One | 
REUTERS
Swiss Lenders Valiant and Berner Kantonalbank in Merger Talks | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Bank of America Chief Expresses Confidence on Upcoming Test | "We're not going to fail this," Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, said of the Federal Reserve's stress test. "It's pretty clear we've got the capital we need." BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Coming Crisis for German Banks | The New York Times reports: "For all the talk about Germany's financial exposure to Greece, it turns out that some German banks have a problem of more titanic proportions - their vulnerability to the global shipping trade." NEW YORK TIMES
An Optimistic Sign in Bank Profits | The Wall Street Journal reports: "For the first time in three years, banks are getting a larger boost to their profit from traditional sources of revenue than from simply cutting back on funds set aside for bad loans." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Students Pressure Endowments in Effort to Curb Climate Change | The New York Times reports: "In recent weeks, college students on dozens of campuses have demanded that university endowment funds rid themselves of coal, oil and gas stocks. The students see it as a tactic that could force climate change, barely discussed in the presidential campaign, back onto the national political agenda." NEW YORK TIMES
JPMorgan Chase Plans to Build More Branch Offices | 
REUTERS
JPMorgan Names Head of Asian Operations | Nicolas Aguzin, currently chief executive of JPMorgan Chase's Latin American business, was tapped to lead the bank's Asian operations. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
TPG Finds Opportunity in Netherlands Property Market | Bloomberg News reports: "A short drive from the center of the city of Utrecht is all it takes to grasp the crisis in the Netherlands' office market, where bondholders have been wiped out and investors such as TPG Capital and Patron Capital Ltd. are picking up the pieces." BLOOMBERG NEWS
SouthWest Energy of Ethiopia Looks to Raise $100 Million | The energy company told Bloomberg News it would "potentially" look to raise money from "private equity players." BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Paulson Said to Blame Loss on European Bet | Bloomberg News reports: "John Paulson, manager of $20 billion in hedge funds, told investors that the bulk of his losses this year came on bets that the European sovereign-debt crisis would worsen, according to a person familiar with the matter." BLOOMBERG NEWS
BlackRock Reduces Stake in Man Group to Less Than 5% | 
REUTERS
Argentina Not Required to Make Security Deposit for Creditors | The holdout creditors of Argentina wanted the government to post a $250 million security deposit, but an appeals court refused to order Argentina to do so, Reuters reports. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook to Join Nasdaq 100 Next Week | The social network Facebook is set to replace Infosys in the Nasdaq index before the opening bell on Dec. 12. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Pandora Warns of a Loss in the 4th Quarter | While Pandora Media reported stronger revenue in the third quarter, the company warned it would face a loss of 6 to 9 cents a share in the fourth quarter. NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
Netflix Strikes Deal to Show Disney Movies in 2016 | 
NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Kravis's Fund Backs Health Care Start-Ups | The Partnership for New York City Fund, which was started by Henry Kravis of K.K.R., is an investor in a New York State program that provides financing to start-ups that aim to improve health care, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Former Goldman Director Gupta to Stay Free Pending Appeal | In a surprise decision, a federal appeals court has ruled that Rajat K. Gupta can remain free on bail while he challenges his insider-trading conviction. He was set to start serving a two-year sentence on Jan. 8. DealBook »
Former Trader at Rochdale Is Arrested After $1 Billion Trade in Apple | A former trader at Rochdale Securities has been arrested and charged with fraud after he purchased $1 billion worth of Apple stock, a trade that put the firm in financial peril. DealBook »
Berkshire Hathaway Seeks $1 Billion in Damages From Swiss Re | Berkshire Hathaway is in a legal fight with the reinsurance company Swiss Re to which Berkshire extended emergency financing during the financial crisis, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Stock Sale by Chief of Big Lots Draws Scrutiny | The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into a $10 million sale of stock by Steven Fishman, the chief executive of Big Lots, that came before the company announced negative news, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
European Finance Ministers Delay Decision on Bank Supervisor | European Union finance ministers were deadlocked on Tuesday over a plan to create a unified banking supervisor and agreed to reconvene next week, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Time for a Bold Choice for S.E.C. Head | The early days of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the direction of its first chairman, Joseph P. Kennedy, indicate that the agency can quickly carry out bold, sweeping changes if the right leadership is installed, Richard E. Farley, a partner at the law firm Paul Hastings, writes. DealBook »
From Bubble to Muddling Through? | Last week's China Insider column examined the confusing picture for Chinese growth. New figures are out, and the outlook is still confusing, Bill Bishop writes. DealBook »
Regulators Examine Wall Street's Recovery From Hurricane Sandy | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); DAMAGES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); CAUCUSES (66%); LITIGATION (65%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (74%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (69%); BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); 2318 (HKSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); BARNEY FRANK (68%); DHANIN CHEARAVANONT (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%); BERNARD ECCLESTONE (53%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



174 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Grand Bargain Express

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins capture the slithering loopholes and solve our budgetary problems. 

 BODY:
 David Brooks: Gail, I'm out in Los Angeles. Did you know that the celebrity set has moved beyond nerd glasses, and now Simpson-Bowles-style bipartisan budget plans are all the rage? Ke$ha and Kobe have been showing theirs off at parties, relying heavily on means testing Medicare and preserving the negative income tax. Snoop Dogg and Kendrick Lamar have come together for one raising an immense amount of money on a Bugatti tax. Taylor Swift and Chuck Norris have one, but I hear they didn't write it themselves.
 Gail Collins: David, you are so much trendier than me. But I did hear that Robert Redford wants to take advantage of sequestration in order to cut funding for the F-35.
 David: You're making me think that you and I should come up with one: the Collins-Brooks Grand Bargain Budget Deal and Marching Society. I'm giving you top billing because I don't want it to be Brooks-Collins for a few days before eventually becoming Collins-Brooks. I know how Bowles pouted for weeks when Bowles-Simpson became Simpson-Bowles. 
 Gail: Once the tabloids get hold of this exciting story it'll be Brollins.
However, I am intrigued with the idea of a budget bargain. It's the new way to celebrate the holiday season! Everybody's doing it.
 David: The question is what do we put in our Grand Bargain. I say we break out of the confines of the stupid debate in Washington and design a regime of taxing and spending that would best serve the country. As I wrote last week, I'd love to throw in a progressive consumption tax to raise revenue. We just can't afford to be taxing investment when we should be taxing spending.
 Gail: I don't blame you for wanting to dodge the Republicans' proposal to raise revenue by eliminating tax deductions. It's starting to resemble a terrible fairy tale - John Boehner is trapped in the castle with a pond full of slithering loopholes and he can't get out until he closes the magic number.
But when it comes to revenue, I am a total fan of raising the income tax rate for the wealthy. Obama ran on it. He talked about it every day! The polls say the public wants it. One of our biggest problems is the gap between the very wealthy and everybody else, which was made worse by all the Bush tax cuts.
So I won't trade income tax hikes for a consumption tax. But let's keep talking. What else would do you want?
 David: I would definitely cap the health insurance benefits deduction. That nasty thing encourages wasteful and excessive health care spending because you essentially get a health care subsidy from your employer tax free instead of getting your money in plain old salary, which is taxed.
 Gail: If we'd gone for a single-payer health care system, we wouldn't still be talking about this. Sigh.
O.K., you're right that the health benefits tax deduction doesn't make sense. But the unions are attached to it, because they gave up so much to get good health plans. So I'd like some tweaking: target high-income earners, and couple it with some help in launching Obamacare. Would you please talk to the governors of Georgia and Texas about getting with the program on Medicaid and health care exchanges?
 David: If I were the governor of one of those states, I'd be very opportunistic. I would perform the fun jobs involved with the exchanges - picking the options and offering the choices - and I'd ask the feds to do all the grunt work, the back office operations and administration. Speaking of the states, I know you want to keep the deduction for state and local taxes. I'm willing to give you that one, but I don't really see why people in Nebraska, who have lower incomes, in general, should subsidize people in Connecticut, who have higher incomes.
 Gail: I don't think the folks in the low-tax states really want to go into a fairness discussion. Residents of Connecticut and New York would love to remind them how much they pay in federal taxes to support programs for Mississippi and South Dakota.
 David: I guess the point of this exercise is to show that in the mix and match world of budgetary politics, there are many ways to join diverse agendas into one mutually acceptable package.
 Gail: Yes, once again it all comes down to the fact that things would be much better if only we ruled the world.
I am pretty sure you and I could make a deal, David. In the end, I'll bet you would give me my tax hike for the rich and I'd give you some entitlement savings that also focused on reducing benefits for the wealthy. Plus, you can have the employer health care thing.
As for your consumption tax, let's have a special study. Do you think Simpson and Bowles are available after the holidays?
 David: I know you are a fan of partisanship, while I think today's partisanship is soul destroying. But this fiscal cliff issue surely shows how partisanship is the enemy of reason.
 Gail: You know, I am coming to believe that in a system as cluttered with checks and balances as ours, you bipartisanship aficionados may have the better argument.
 David: The fight over tax rates isn't based on economic reality. It's about dominance. Each side has decided that the rates are how they are going to measure their social dominance in this fight, and so each side is being rigidly dogmatic about whether rates should go up or down.
 Gail: O.K., I am reclaiming my partisanship hat.
Elections have to have at least a little meaning. Obama ran on income tax hikes for the wealthy. People knew they were voting for that. They want that. And it's good policy.
When it comes to no-entitlement-cuts-whatsoever, I admit that's rigidly dogmatic. The Democrats should be willing to give a bit here. I know the president feels that way.
 David: The final thing to be said about the way the fiscal cliff show is being conducted in Washington is that it's not really about economics. It's about governance. Companies, investors, the markets and other nations around the world want to see that the United States can govern itself. If our leaders cut a deal, any deal, everyone will applaud and the rewards would be vastly greater than whatever losses come from losing your side of the policy argument.
 Gail: I agree! So give me tax cuts for the wealthy and I'll give you spending cuts and we'll make everybody happy.
 David: If they can't cut a deal, the world will decide that America is finished and the consequences of that will be worse than the problems arising from any concession one of our parties is asked to make.
That's why the whole exercise is immature. It's about proving your manhood to your supporters, not actually following the logic of the economic substance.
 Gail: When you have Speaker Boehner acting like the last defender of the Alamo, there's obviously a lot of posturing going on. I'm O.K with the theater as long as there's a deal at the end.
And when it comes to who makes the big sacrifices, here's my Christmas tax message: For everyone to whom much is given, of him shall much be required.

        
Fiscal Ecstasy
        
From All Sides, Fiscal Plans Fall Far Short of What's Needed
        
Tax Face-Off: Romney vs. Me
        
Pre-Emptive Moves
        
Is Less Defense the Best Offense?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); TAX INCREASES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) barack obama; federal budget; John Boehner; tax negotiations; taxes; the "fiscal cliff"; Boehner, John A; Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); Income Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; The Conversation

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); TAYLOR SWIFT (55%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012



175 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Alaska: Future Swing State?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: With an elastic vote and a changing population, Alaska could continue to become more competitive in the coming years. 

 BODY:
The state where President Obama most improved his performance from 2008 was Alaska. He lost it by "only" 14 percentage points this year, considerably less than his 22-point margin of defeat in 2008.
Part of the reason is that the former governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin, was on the Republican ticket in 2008 but was not this year. That probably doesn't explain all of the shift, however.
Consider that in 2000 -- also without Ms. Palin on the ballot -- the Democratic nominee, Al Gore, lost Alaska by 31 points. 
There are reasons to think that Alaska could continue to become more competitive in the coming years.
One factor is that Alaska's vote is quite elastic, meaning that it can shift quite a bit from year to year. In 2008, 43 percent of voters in Alaska identified themselves as independents on the exit poll, among the highest percentages in the country. (There was no exit polling in Alaska in 2012.)
Of the remaining voters in the state, far more were Republicans (37 percent) than Democrats (20 percent), meaning that a Republican candidate will ordinarily have a clear advantage if the independent vote is split about evenly. But the right sort of Democrat, who wins the majority of independents, can be competitive there, and indeed some Democrats (like Alaska's Democratic senator, Mark Begich) can win statewide office there under the right conditions.
Alaska's population is also changing; between 2010 and 2011, Alaska had the third-highest population growth rate in the country, trailing only Texas and Utah.
Where are those new Alaskans coming from? Many are from liberal states on the West Coast. Between 2005 and 2009, about 4,300 Californians moved to Alaska per year, making it the top state for domestic emigration to Alaska. So did 4,200 residents per year from Washington and 2,200 from Oregon.
Texas, from which about 2,700 people emigrated to Alaska each year, also ranked high on the list, perhaps in part because of each state's ties to the fossil fuels industry (along with Texas' large population). But the new residents of Alaska are most likely considerably more liberal than the rest of the state's population, over all.
On cultural issues, Alaska already resembles other Pacific Coast states in certain respects. Only about half of Alaska's adults say that religion is an important part of their everyday lives, which is among the lowest rates in the country (and similar to those in Washington and Oregon).
On economic affairs, Alaska is considerably more conservative. And Democrats will encounter some friction in the state so long as they are perceived as opposing the interests of the oil and natural gas industries, which are essential to the economy there.
If the Democratic nominee in 2016 is someone like Hillary Rodham Clinton, who embraces a relatively traditional Democratic agenda, she will have better places to compete.
But a Democrat who was perceived as being of the center-left or the libertarian left, especially one from a western state like Colorado's governor, John W. Hickenlooper, could conceivably be competitive in Alaska. And if Alaska continues to add population from states like California and Washington, it could be competitive on a more regular basis in 2020 and going forward.

        
Which Polls Fared Best (and Worst) in the 2012 Presidential Race
        
Auto Rescue and Low Home-State Bonus Keep Michigan Out of Play
        
New Polls Raise Chance of Electoral College Tie
        
Sept. 29: As Iowa Goes, So May Go Romney's Chances
        
Sept. 23: Does Omaha Matter?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (88%); LIBERALISM (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Alaska; Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (73%); AL GORE (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (96%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Alaska

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



176 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Raise the Economy's Speed Limit

BYLINE: By JARED BERNSTEIN. 
Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, was the chief economist and economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. from 2009 to 2011.

 BODY:
Washington
WITH the budget-and-tax showdown dominating headlines, most Americans probably missed an even more ominous story: according to a report by the Congressional Budget Office, America's underlying growth rate -- that is, the best the economy could do, under optimal conditions, without driving up inflation -- has slowed from just under 4 percent a year in 2000 to just under 2 percent today.
Why does this matter? For one thing, the combination of a lower underlying growth rate, which you could think of as the economy's speed limit, and a less equitable distribution of that growth was a reason middle-income households did so badly and poverty went up in the 2000s. 
During the 1990s, in contrast, stronger demand for goods and services led to much faster job growth and the last real gains experienced by middle- and lower-income households. Faster growth in those years also spun off a lot more government revenues, which interacted with slightly higher tax rates to take the budget from deficit to surplus.
Why has the underlying growth rate slowed? It's actually pretty simple: growth is determined by the supply of labor and capital -- i.e., people and machines -- and how efficiently we use those inputs to make the output, or gross domestic product.
According to the report, we're slipping on all fronts. As baby boomers head toward retirement, the growth of the labor force is decelerating; it is expected to grow about half as fast over the next decade as over the last.
This problem was exacerbated by the deep recession, as even younger un- and underemployed workers got discouraged with their job prospects and left the job market (though many will be back when things pick up). Also, for years the influx of women into the labor force raised the economy's speed limit; that trend plateaued about a decade ago.
We've done better on the productivity side. But we've underinvested in our capital stock -- factories, the machines inside them and software. In the 1990s, when the economy's speed limit was growing, the flow of services from capital stock increased 4.7 percent a year; in the 2000s, its growth slowed sharply to 2.4 percent, even though tax rates on such investment were considerably lower.
In other words, our workers and machinery are still highly productive, but we've been underinvesting in them. In fact, according to the Congressional Budget Office, this investment deficit explains more than a third of the slower underlying growth rate.
Can we do anything about this? Some economists think of the potential growth rate as they do a person's height: it may be too bad they're short, but if you try to make them taller, you'll just waste resources on a lost cause. Recessions may be amenable to monetary and fiscal policy, but structural shortfalls are a function of demographics, resource constraints and technological limits.
But that's not quite right. Sometimes people don't hit their potential height because they didn't get enough nutrition, and it's the same thing with economies. Bad public policy is to blame as well.
Our whole policy focus in this space tends to be on tax policy -- specifically, on cutting taxes on investors and so-called job creators. But that type of ''supply-side'' taxation has obviously been a bust. We have to look elsewhere, and fast.
First of all, the distinction between the cyclical and the structural is artificial. Bad cyclical growth begets bad structural growth; persistent cyclical weakness in demand -- a long recession, long periods of high unemployment -- reduces potential growth. Workers who experience long-term unemployment thanks to a harsh cyclical downturn can find themselves less employable because of skill deterioration once the market picks up.
A weak-demand economy requires fewer workers and less capital investment. It also dampens forward-looking investment, and thus the supply of productive capital: American corporations are sitting on almost $2 trillion in reserves that they're not investing for lack of good options.
The first thing to do is keep applying the accelerator on pro-growth policies that strengthen near-term demand and labor quality, including paycheck supports (like the payroll tax break), training for unemployed workers and investment in bridges, tunnels and other infrastructure. Over the longer term, we might want to think of immigration reform as a way to counteract our decelerating work force.
For now, though, we're into a negative loop where persistently weak demand is chipping away at the labor and capital supply and productivity advances needed to increase our potential growth rate. Supply-side, deregulatory zeal has deprived the economy of investments in infrastructure and other public goods, innovative research and the oversight necessary to prevent the shampoo cycles -- bubble, bust, repeat -- that are whacking away at our potential growth rates.
This can all be corrected, but we've got to stop setting fiscal traps for ourselves and squabbling about a few points on the marginal tax rate. Instead, let's start taking the steps that can get this economy back up to speed.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPEED LIMITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); POVERTY RATES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



177 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Says It Will Cut 11,000 Jobs and Take a $1 Billion Charge

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
8:04 p.m. | Updated
Citigroup's announcement that it will slash 11,000 jobs worldwide underscores its major contraction since nearly collapsing during the financial crisis and its continuing battle against high operating costs and persistently sluggish markets.
The cost-cutting fervor, including tens of thousands of Wall Street jobs slashed in recent years, is expected to continue at Citigroup and other banks as they combat sagging stock prices, lackluster revenue and new regulations that damp profits. 
The cuts at Citigroup, many coming from its global consumer banking business, reflect a new emphasis on aiming at commercial banking jobs, some bank analysts said, rather than mainly eliminating investment banking positions.
With pressure mounting from shareholders, Citi has been trying to bolster returns, in part by working through a glut of bad loans and systematically dismantling some businesses. The job cuts amount to 4 percent of the work force and will bring the company's head count down to about 250,000, down by a third since before the financial crisis in 2007.
The bank's shares increased more than 6 percent on Wednesday.
The moves, the first since Michael O'Neill, the bank chairman, abruptly deposed Vikram S. Pandit as chief executive and replaced him with Michael L. Corbat, were seen as another retrenchment from Citi's former position as a financial megamarket in the United States and around the world. But the announcement did not signal a new strategy or direction for the nation's third-biggest bank by assets.
"Ultimately, it misses the point," said Michael Mayo, an analyst at Crédit Agricole Securities. "They need a more radical restructuring."
Since the abrupt power change in October, which sent shock waves across Wall Street and left some within the bank rankled by the brutal transition, there has been unease throughout the upper ranks of Citigroup, according to several people close to the bank.
Much of that wariness stemmed from a concern that Mr. O'Neill would work through the new chief executive to impose an unflinching round of cuts that further pare down the bank, according to these people.
A career banker and Marine, Mr. O'Neill had tussled with Mr. Pandit over the lack of speed in trimming costs after taking the helm of the board in 2009, according to several people close to the board.
The latest cuts come after exhaustive meetings in November that convened nearly every head of the bank's businesses at Citigroup's Park Avenue headquarters in New York, according to several senior executives at the bank. During the meetings, which lasted for three days, Mr. Corbat demanded that each head of the business units justify the costs associated with their operations.
Earlier this week, Mr. Corbat briefed the board, which has been very vocal about its desire for a leaner Citi, according to several executives at Citi.
"These actions are logical next steps in Citi's transformation," Mr. Corbat said in a statement. "While we are committed to - and our strategy continues to leverage - our unparalleled global network and footprint, we have identified areas and products where our scale does not provide for meaningful returns."
At a financial services conference Wednesday, John Gerspach, the bank's chief financial officer, described the downsizing as "part of a continuum."
Citigroup joins other banks that are scaling back their international and domestic operations as they struggle to compete in a perilous global economy, like the Swiss bank UBS and the British bank HSBC. Bank of America is in the process of slashing 30,000 jobs companywide. As part of the slimdown, Bank of America said it was shedding 750 branches.
Citi's global consumer banking business took the hardest hit on Wednesday, with the bank saying it will eliminate 6,200 positions and close 84 branches worldwide, including in Brazil, Hungary and South Korea, with 44 closings in the United States. Citi will vastly reduce its footprint in some countries and leave five others entirely, including Turkey and Pakistan.
An additional 1,900 jobs will be removed from Citi's capital markets and transaction processing units. An estimated 2,600 jobs will be cut from its back office operations as well.
The changes will result in a charge of about $1 billion in the fourth quarter, but are expected to save the bank $900 million next year and $1.1 billion annually starting in 2014, the company said.
Such draconian job cuts will continue, the analysts said, as banks try to wring more profits from simple lending and retail banking operations, particularly because once-major moneymakers like complex derivatives are restricted by regulation.
Wall Street has been sloughing off jobs by the thousands since the financial crisis, with major banks announcing reductions of more than 150,000 jobs since the start of 2011, according to Richard Stein, a senior partner in the financial services practice at Caldwell Partners.
For New York, the cost-cutting could have profound financial ripple effects. Already, jobs in the securities industry within New York have fallen more than 15 percent from their 2007 peak of 213,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. New York, where Citi currently employs an estimated 22,000 people, will lose about 1,700 positions in Wednesday's announcement.
Even the top echelons of Wall Street are at risk, some people within the industry said.
"You are going to see more senior level cuts in the next wave," Mr. Stein said.
In recent years, Citi has limped toward profitability, after nearly toppling during the financial crisis and receiving a $45 billion lifeline from the federal government. Since then, the bank has been sharply reducing its expenses and trying to shed even more troubled assets.
But those efforts have been dogged by missteps and turmoil. In March, for example, the Federal Reserve dealt a stunning blow to Citigroup when it scuttled the bank's plans to raise its dividend or increase share buybacks. Shortly afterward in April, the bank's shareholders, in a rare move, voted against a $15 million pay package for Mr. Pandit.
Alone, Wednesday's moves are not enough, some banking analysts said. Although Citi has an expansive international banking presence that dwarfs its rivals, it has failed to capitalize on that, Mr. Mayo said.
The bank is distracted, analysts said, by inefficient relationships within its corporate client divisions where, at times, many bankers approach the same clients with advice on deals and loan pitches.
The cuts sought to eliminate some of those overlapping relationships.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The job cuts came after Michael Corbat, the chief executive, and the heads of Citi's business units convened recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHARTS: Still Recovering: Citigroup's business is smaller than it was before the financial crisis. (Sources: company filings
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); RETAIL BANKING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); ACA (PAR) (54%); ACA (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



178 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: In South Louisiana, Growing Rice to Trade On Some Creatures That Eat It

BYLINE: By DAVE THIER

 BODY:
GUEYDAN, La. -- Donald Benoit's rice fields are pristine enough for a picture postcard. Long, straight rows of bright green grain protrude from crystal clear water, with not a weed in sight. But one thing looks out of place.
Between every row is a long line of traps with bright orange tops that poke out of the water every few feet. They are there because Mr. Benoit is not really using these fields to grow rice. His primary crop is the crayfish (called crawfish around here) teeming in the shallow water. The rice is just there to feed them. 
Mr. Benoit, 63, has lived his whole life in Gueydan, (pronounced GAY-don), about three hours west of New Orleans. His father farmed rice and his grandfather shipped it, but like many other South Louisiana farmers, Mr. Benoit is finding that it pays to look at a rice field and see a crayfish pond.
''When I was growing up, nobody would ever have thought of having crawfish ponds, much less making a living crawfishing,'' he said. ''Now everybody raises them. I plant rice right now, but I plant rice to raise crawfish in.''
Louisiana is the nation's largest producer by far, typically accounting for 90 percent of the total. From 2006 through 2011, total annual shipments of Louisiana crayfish have more than doubled, to $195.8 million, according to the Louisiana State University agricultural center.
Rice has been a mainstay of Louisiana agriculture since the 18th century. It is one of the few crops the wet, silty soil in a place like Gueydan can support. For years, crayfish was a wild product, harvested mostly in the Atchafalaya Basin between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. In the 1970s and '80s, farmers realized that they could make extra money by managing the crayfish that already lived in their flooded rice fields.
Mr. Benoit was one of the first to start fully managing fields for crayfish, the small lobster-like crustaceans that live in fresh water.
''We were fishing native crawfish before, and we moved into the rice fields in the early '80s,'' he said. ''At the time, people were getting more of a demand for crawfish, and I had a processor buying everything I could produce. So we started working more acres, and the industry just got bigger.''
As the crayfish market expanded, rice farmers saw their industry decline in ways similar to that of the grain business elsewhere in the country. The high cost of farming, along with the vicissitudes of international commodities markets, forced all but the biggest operations out of business. In recent years, fuel costs have made running large combines more expensive than ever.
Mark Shirley has been a county agent for 28 years. During that time, he has seen rice production change sharply.
''Here in Vermilion Parish, we're seeing the numbers of rice farmers go down, and the ones that are still around are just getting bigger,'' he said. ''It's an economy-of-scale type thing. Fifty years ago, someone could make a living off of 400 acres of rice. Now, you need 4,000 acres. You have to be very efficient on a big scale.''
Crayfish production remains blessedly simple. In its most basic form, it is not much more than owning a pond and putting traps in it. While a large operation like Donald Benoit's requires a good deal of attention, a small business can turn a profit with just a boat, a few traps and some bait.
''You make more money on the back end than the front end,'' said Stephen Tessier, a 30-year veteran of the rice and crayfish industries. ''If it wouldn't be for the crawfish, there's a lot of farmers that wouldn't even be planting rice.''
Most crayfish are sold live, and their short shelf life insulates domestic producers from some of the import competition that has plagued shrimpers and gulf fishermen in the area. People tend to buy them in 40-pound sacks for large gatherings, so consumption is pegged to big outdoor parties -- Mardi Gras and Easter are mainstays, as is any given weekend in the early spring through the summer. Farmers struggle to meet demand when the New Orleans Saints make the National Football League playoffs.
The day-to-day fluctuation in demand can be a headache for full-time producers.
''Sales at the beginning of the week is, I'd say, half of what they are on the weekend,'' said Donald Benoit's son, Don, who also runs a crayfish farm, dock and retail operation. ''You never have enough crawfish toward the weekend, but a lot of the time, beginning of the week you have too much.''
Don Benoit is planning to build a processing plant to move into products like boiled crayfish and packs of frozen tail meat in an effort to extend his crayfish's shelf life and expand his market. Others are content with the industry as it is. Crayfish is one of the few ways people can still make money off small-scale aquaculture.
''That's probably the only occupation I still see some 60-, 70-year-olds still in business,'' said the elder Benoit. ''Old ladies and men, they run their traps, run their ponds, make them 40 or 50 bucks and they're happy with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald Benoit was one of the first to start fully managing rice fields for crayfish, small lobster-like crustaceans that live in fresh water. At left his grandson Blaythe Painter loads bags of them onto a truck bound for a restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RICE FARMING (92%); CRUSTACEANS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (91%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



179 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Despite Storm's Impact, Services Sector Grew

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Private sector hiring weakened in November because of the impact of Hurricane Sandy on the Northeast, but the nation's huge services sector continued to expand.
The ADP National Employment Report, which is closely watched as it comes two days ahead of the government's monthly national employment report, showed on Wednesday that the private sector added 118,000 jobs during the month, below expectations for a gain of 125,000.
The report largely reinforced economists' forecast for a weak reading in the Labor Department's payrolls report on Friday. Economists expect the economy added 93,000 jobs in November, down from 171,000 the month before, according to a Reuters survey. 
''It's close to what the market was expecting. If Friday's employment report from the U.S. Labor Department comes in similar to this, that would be a good outcome,'' said Terry Sheehan, an economic analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates.
Wednesday's data, which also included better-than-expected factory orders and productivity, presented a mixed picture of the American economy. That was partly a reflection of crosscurrents from the storm, as well as difficult budget negotiations in Washington aimed at averting the so-called fiscal cliff, a series of automatic government spending cuts and tax increases at the beginning of next year.
A report on the American services sector showed a similar slowing in hiring during the month. But forward-looking indicators pointed to faster growth as a rise in new orders and business activity helped offset a slowdown in employment and prices.
The Institute for Supply Management said its services index rose to 54.7 last month from 54.2 the month before. The reading topped economists' forecasts for growth to 53.5, according to a Reuters survey. In the report, 50 marks the divide between growth and contraction.
''The much larger service side of the U.S. economy remains relatively healthy,'' said Joseph Trevisani, chief market strategist at Worldwide Markets. ''It has so far avoided the contraction in manufacturing, but worse is probably coming in the first quarter of next year as the economy continues to slow.''
Also on Wednesday, a report showed new orders received by factories unexpectedly rose 0.8 percent in October as demand for motor vehicles and a range of other goods offset a slump in defense and civilian aircraft orders. The Commerce Department also revised October's figures upward on nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft in a hopeful sign that the slowdown in business investment in recent months might soon draw to a close.
Economists at Barclays said the strong reading, driven by orders and shipments of capital goods, equipment used to make other things, means the economy will grow faster than expected in the fourth quarter. They raised their gross domestic product growth outlook for the quarter to 2.2 percent from 2 percent.
The Labor Department reported that nonfarm productivity increased at an annual rate of 2.9 percent in the third quarter, a faster clip than initially expected, as businesses held the line on hiring even as output surged, with unit labor costs falling at their fastest pace in almost a year.
With the effects of the storm out of the way in the months ahead, hiring is expected to return to its previous trend even if more slowly than most would like to see with the employment rate still hovering near 8 percent.
Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's Analytics, who helps compile the ADP report, said underlying jobs growth was closer to 150,000 in November after discounting the impact of the storm as well as seasonal jobs brought forward at the start of the holiday season.
''Abstracting from the storm, the job market turned in a good performance during the month,'' he said. ''Superstorm Sandy wreaked havoc on the job market in November, slicing an estimated 86,000 jobs from payrolls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rise in new orders and business activity helped offset a slowdown in employment and prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL E. KEATING/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (93%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (93%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



180 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Exporting Natural Gas Has Merits, Study Finds

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- In a finding that could help create a new industry of natural gas exports in the United States, a government study released on Wednesday concluded that the national economic benefits of significant natural gas exports far outweighed the potential for higher energy prices for consumers and industrial users of the fuel.
The study prepared by NERA Economic Consulting for the Energy Department, said that domestic prices would not rise sharply as a result of exports and that export revenue would generally help most Americans. 
Energy companies have proposed more than a dozen projects to export gas in liquefied form to Europe and Asia, where the fuel is typically three to four times more expensive than in the United States. The Obama administration has been cautious on whether to embrace large exports of gas out of concern that consumers who rely on gas for heating and cooking could see their utility prices rise. Higher exports could also raise costs to manufacturers that now benefit from the nation's glut of cheap gas, like chemical and fertilizer manufacturers.
But the huge gas export terminals, which cost billions of dollars to set up, would also generate thousands of construction jobs, spur further development of natural gas fields and generate lucrative export earnings.
The administration has only approved one export terminal so far, by Cheniere Energy in Louisiana, saying it was waiting for the results of the economic study before making decisions on the rest of the projects.
Now that the report has been finished, most observers expect more projects to get the green light.
The report found that higher exports would actually generate more economic benefits. Noting that gas exports could produce up to $47 billion in new economic activity in 2020, when many new terminals would be up and running, it said, ''Welfare improvement is highest under the high export volume scenarios because U.S. consumers benefit from an increase in wealth transfer and export revenues.''
Only a decade ago, it appeared that the country's domestic gas supplies were drying up and that huge amounts of expensive gas in liquefied form would have to be imported from Trinidad, Africa and the Middle East. But over the last few years, a technological revolution has occurred in shale gas fields across the country, driven by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. That has produced a glut that has driven the price of natural gas down by two-thirds since 2008.
The report, the second Energy Department study this year, was immediately challenged by Dow Chemical, which relies heavily on natural gas for fuel and as a raw material to produce many of its chemicals. The company warned that large-scale exports that raise domestic gas prices would hurt the ability of energy-intensive manufacturers to compete with foreign firms.
''We're disappointed,'' said George Blitz, Dow's vice president of energy and climate change. ''The report fails to take into account the $80 billion in new spending along with 3 to 5 million new jobs that the industrial sector has already announced predicated on available and low natural gas prices.''
Yet oil and gas companies are eager for exports to bolster the lagging price of natural gas.
''It's encouraging to see that experts are joining the expectation that we are in a global marketplace and the United States has a huge opportunity to generate economic growth and at the same time reduce our energy costs,'' said Rodney Waller, a senior vice president at Range Resources, a natural gas producer.
Shares of companies that have proposed major export projects rose in trading on Wednesday, with Sempra Energy up 3 percent, Dominion Resources up 2.6 percent, and Cheniere up 1.8 percent. Shares of natural gas producers were mixed.
The report is likely to spur a competitive lobbying campaign for regulatory approval of export terminals.
Several powerful members of Congress, including Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is in line to be the next chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have opposed large-scale exports.
Senator Wyden's office released a statement noting that the report concluded that exports would raise domestic prices. ''Senator Wyden will continue to call on the Energy Department to ensure that unfettered natural gas exports don't harm U.S. consumers and manufacturers,'' the statement said.
The Sierra Club and other environmental groups have also opposed exports as a way to limit hydraulic fracturing, a technique that blasts shale rock with water, sand and chemicals to release gas and oil. Environmentalists say drinking water supplies can be put in jeopardy, a charge disputed by the oil industry.
The Energy Department report noted that large exports of gas would raise prices slightly and have a negative impact on electric utilities, energy-intensive manufacturers and producers of chemicals and fertilizers.
It acknowledged that natural gas prices could jump by over a dollar per thousand cubic feet, or more than 25 percent, over five years if there are significantly more exports. That would still be well below the average natural gas price before the 2008 economic downturn.
But the report said that natural gas exports could also produce $10 billion to $30 billion of annual export revenue. The country now exports some gas by pipeline to Mexico and Canada.
There is still no certainty that the administration would approve more than a handful of liquefied natural gas terminals, and the terminals each take several years to build. So manufacturers could still continue to enjoy low energy prices.
Cheniere's plant, which is scheduled to begin operations in 2016, will have a capacity to export 2.6 billion cubic feet a day, equivalent to only about 4 percent of current domestic demand.
But four other projects with a combined export capacity triple that of Cheniere's terminal are scheduled to receive federal regulatory decisions in 2013. All told, the 15 proposed terminals would have an export capacity of 26.5 billion cubic feet a day, more than a third of what is currently consumed in the United States.
Charif Souki, Cheniere's chairman and chief executive, said he was not surprised by the report. ''The bottom line is you still have to spend a lot of money to find out if your project works and then once you have done that you have to spend a lot more money to build your projects.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: To adopt to changing energy needs, Dominion Cove Point LNG in Lusby, Maryland, is being converted from a liquefied natural gas terminal to an export terminal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (94%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); CHEMICALS (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (67%); FERTILIZER MFG (67%); FERTILIZERS (67%)

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); CHENIERE ENERGY INC (54%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%); LNG (NYSE MKT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



181 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2674 words

HEADLINE: Trail to a Hedge Fund, From a Cluster of Cases

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In April 2009, an F.B.I. agent visited the Silicon Valley home of Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a hedge fund manager with deep contacts inside technology companies. The government, the agent said, had overwhelming proof that Mr. Lee had engaged in insider trading. Within weeks, Mr. Lee confessed and began cooperating.
A year and a half later, in the parking lot of a New England prep school, the same agent approached Noah Freeman, a Harvard-educated money manager turned teacher. After the agent played a secretly recorded conversation of Mr. Freeman swapping illegal tips, Mr. Freeman admitted to crimes and started assisting the authorities.
Last winter, another agent confronted Mathew Martoma, a pharmaceutical-industry analyst, at his 8,000-square-foot Florida mansion. As they stood on the front lawn, with Mr. Martoma's wife and children inside, the agent told him that they had evidence that he had broken the law. 
Overcome with stress, Mr. Martoma passed out.
Three criminal defendants - Mr. Lee, Mr. Freeman and Mr. Martoma - have a common denominator: Each had worked for SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, one of the most powerful figures in finance. By posting impressive annual returns averaging 30 percent across two decades, Mr. Cohen, a 56-year-old Long Island native, has amassed a fortune estimated at nearly $9 billion.
Mr. Cohen has not been accused of any wrongdoing and he may never be charged, but he has become a central focus of the government's sprawling investigation into criminal conduct at hedge funds. A picture of the inquiry has emerged from interviews with people involved with the case.
The trail leading to SAC has emerged out of a cluster of cases, many of them connected to the prosecution of the fallen titan Raj Rajaratnam. Investigators heard SAC traders on incriminating wiretaps; in other instances, cooperators and informants accused the fund of misconduct. As the authorities painstakingly pieced together dozens of cases across multiple, overlapping conspiracies, again and again one name kept popping up: Mr. Cohen's SAC.
Investigators have penetrated SAC and other funds by aggressively deploying techniques - wiretaps, cooperators and informants - once reserved for infiltrating the Mafia and narcotics rings. Government lawyers have reviewed millions of pages of documents and taken hundreds of depositions. Securities watchdogs, meanwhile, have developed more sophisticated methods to detect insider trading, which is defined as trading based on material, nonpublic information.
The long-running inquiry has linked six former SAC employees to insider trading while at the fund; three, including Jon Horvath, who has implicated one of Mr. Cohen's top lieutenants, have pleaded guilty. At least six other former employees have been tied to insider trading after leaving SAC. Several more have received subpoenas, people briefed on the case say.
Since 2002, the financial industry's self-regulatory groups have referred about 80 instances of suspicious SAC trading activity to federal authorities for further investigation. In 2007, as the citations piled up, the self-regulatory groups took a more aggressive tone, noting that the hedge fund had been "repeatedly" flagged for suspicious trading. (An SAC spokesman has said that the fund trades in thousands of stocks each day, so given its level of activity it is not surprising that the fund would show up in referrals.)
"Government lawyers go where the facts take them," said H. David Kotz, a former inspector general at the Securities and Exchange Commission now with Berkeley Research, a consulting firm. "With so many disparate strands of the investigation leading to SAC, it makes perfect sense that they would be closely looking at the guy in charge."
And they are looking very closely. A few years ago, the F.B.I. secretly recorded the telephone line at Mr. Cohen's Greenwich, Conn., estate, said two people briefed on the investigation. It is unclear what precipitated the wiretapping and whether any evidence was collected. Federal securities regulators have had previous brushes with SAC in 2003 and Mr. Cohen in 1986, but neither inquiry resulted in any action. Last summer, S.E.C. lawyers deposed him.
Speaking to his roughly 1,000 employees last week, Mr. Cohen expressed confidence that he acted appropriately. In defending the fund, SAC cites its strong culture of compliance and says it is "outraged" and "deeply disturbed" by the conduct of former employees.
But with Mr. Martoma's arrest Nov. 20 - the first case that directly ties Mr. Cohen to questionable trades - the investigation has entered a more serious phase. The S.E.C. warned the fund that it was preparing a civil fraud lawsuit against SAC related to Mr. Martoma's case. A lawyer for Mr. Martoma, Charles A. Stillman, said that he expected his client to be exonerated.
And just as it did in the investigation of Mr. Rajaratnam and in the landmark 1980s prosecutions of the financial giants of that era, Michael R. Milken and Ivan F. Boesky, the government is pursuing lower-level employees and then seeking their cooperation in the hopes of building a case against the boss.
C. B. Lee
Had he made different career choices, Richard Choo-Beng Lee might have been an engineer at Apple or Intel. Instead, armed with a computer science degree and a knack for numbers, Mr. Lee became a star technology analyst on Wall Street.
Known as C. B., Mr. Lee worked in the 1990s at the brokerage firm Needham & Company alongside Mr. Rajaratnam. In 1999, Mr. Lee landed at SAC, where he earned millions working for a team of tech-stock traders. After five years, he left, and in 2008 started his own California-based hedge fund, Spherix Capital.
That same year, a government informant taped incriminating calls with Mr. Rajaratnam, who by then had become a billionaire running the Galleon Group. On the basis of those calls, prosecutors received a judge's approval to wiretap Mr. Rajaratnam's cellphone. They also received permission to eavesdrop on Danielle Chiesi, a close associate of Mr. Rajaratnam. Ms. Chiesi was heard on calls with Mr. Lee passing inside information.
B. J. Kang, an F.B.I. agent, showed up at Mr. Lee's modest San Jose, Calif., home in 2009. After pleading guilty, he closed Spherix Capital and became a cooperator, recording conversations that helped ensnare several defendants.
Securing Mr. Lee's cooperation proved to be a major breakthrough because he helped them better understand SAC's trading practices and culture. As part of Mr. Lee's plea agreement, he agreed to share information about illegal conduct that he saw while working for Mr. Cohen.
He also provided investigators with detailed insights into expert-network firms, a growing business that connected traders with sources at publicly traded companies. Mr. Lee said SAC and other funds aggressively used these matchmaking firms, some of which were cesspools of inside information.
A few months after Mr. Lee "flipped," the F.B.I. directed him to try to get rehired by SAC, said a person briefed on the case. Mr. Cohen entertained his request but ultimately rebuffed him, leery that Mr. Lee had abruptly closed his fund, this person said.
Jeffrey Bornstein, a lawyer for Mr. Lee, 56, said that his client continues to cooperate with the government.
Noah Freeman
When Noah Freeman graduated from Harvard in 1999, the stock market was roaring. After a stint in management consulting, Mr. Freeman tried his hand at hedge funds. He started at Brookside Capital, a unit of Bain Capital.
Mr. Freeman joined SAC in 2008, lured by a two-year, $2 million-a-year guarantee. The fund gave him several hundred millions of dollars to manage.
Mr. Freeman routinely shared his best ideas with Mr. Cohen. Unlike hedge funds with one manager making investment decisions, SAC has about 140 teams - each controlling several hundred millions of dollars. The teams give their "high conviction ideas" to Mr. Cohen, who directly manages only about 10 percent of the fund. SAC compensates employees based on a percentage of the winnings they generate for the fund, as well as on profits they make for Mr. Cohen's portfolio.
An accomplished speed skater and triathlete, Mr. Freeman thrived in the high-stress world of hedge funds. But the pressure to perform was immense. To help gain an edge, Mr. Freeman became a big user of expert networks, especially Primary Global Research. His principal contact at Primary Global was Winifred Jiau.
Mr. Lee and other informants had told government investigators that Primary Global was especially dirty, and investigators began listening to its phone calls. On one call in May 2008, Ms. Jiau was heard giving Mr. Freeman inside tips about Marvell Technology. Mr. Freeman shared the information with Donald Longueuil, who used it to earn more than $1 million in profits.
SAC fired Mr. Freeman in 2010 for poor performance, according to a fund spokesman. Disillusioned with Wall Street, Mr. Freeman went into education. He took a job teaching honors economics at the Winsor School, a prestigious all-girls school in Boston. One day, in November 2010, Mr. Kang, the F.B.I. agent, was waiting for Mr. Freeman in the parking lot of Winsor.
As a government cooperator, Mr. Freeman wore a wire and secretly recorded conversations with Mr. Longueuil, who also joined SAC and had been the best man at his wedding. Mr. Longueuil is serving a two-and-a-half year sentence.
In a Dec. 16, 2010 interview, Mr. Freeman told investigators that he thought that trafficking in corporate secrets was part of his job description at SAC, according to an F.B.I. agent's notes of the interview, which were in a court filing and first reported by Bloomberg News.
"Freeman and others at SAC Capital understood that providing Cohen with your best trading ideas involved providing Cohen with inside information," the agent wrote.
Prosecutors announced charges against Mr. Freeman and Mr. Longueuil in February 2011. Primary Global has closed. Ms. Jiau, who was found guilty at trial, is in prison. At her trial, Mr. Freeman testified that he gave investigators the names of at least a dozen people who he believed were involved in criminal conduct.
Mr. Freeman, 36, who has yet to be sentenced, is currently a stay-at-home father, and his cooperation could spare him prison time. His lawyer, Benjamin E. Rosenberg, declined to comment.
Jon Horvath
In November 2010, the F.B.I. raided two hedge funds that heavily used expert-network firms: Level Global Investors and Diamondback Capital Management. Both had strong ties to Mr. Cohen; each was started by SAC alumni.
Fourteen months after the raid, prosecutors charged seven traders - including two each from Level Global and Diamondback - in what it called a "criminal club" that made nearly $70 million trading on secret information gleaned from sources inside technology companies.
Among those arrested was Jon Horvath, an SAC tech-stock analyst who once worked at Lehman Brothers. Low key and analytic, Mr. Horvath lacked the swagger of many of his peers. For months, he maintained his innocence.
But in September, a month before trial, Mr. Horvath admitted to insider trading while at SAC and agreed to cooperate. In court, Mr. Horvath said that he - along with his SAC manager - traded on confidential financial results. "In each instance I provided the information to the portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the stocks based on that information," he said.
The portfolio manager is Michael S. Steinberg, according to two people briefed on the inquiry. Prosecutors have not charged him, but have named him an unindicted co-conspirator.
Barry Berke, a lawyer for Mr. Steinberg, 40, and Steven Peikin, a lawyer for Mr. Horvath, 42, declined to comment.
Though recently placed on leave, Mr. Steinberg is one of SAC's longest-tenured employees. He joined in 1997, when it was just Mr. Cohen and several dozen traders; for years, he sat near Mr. Cohen on the trading floor and the two grew close. When Mr. Steinberg was married in 1999 at the Plaza Hotel, Mr. Cohen attended the black-tie affair.
Mathew Martoma
In 2008, a team of S.E.C. enforcement lawyers in New York, led by Sanjay Wadhwa, noticed a pattern in the "suspicious trading reports." CR Intrinsic Investors, a unit of SAC Capital, had made an uncanny string of immensely profitable, well-timed trades in technology and health care stocks. Their suspicions raised, the team requested more trading reports from the regulatory arm of the New York Stock Exchange. Huge bets by CR Intrinsic on the pharmaceutical companies Elan and Wyeth, placed just before they announced disappointing results from a drug trial, jumped off the page.
The S.E.C. issued a subpoena requesting that SAC produce documents - e-mails, instant messages, phone and trading records - connected to the unusual trades. As they combed through e-mails, S.E.C. lawyers discovered reams of correspondence between Mathew Martoma, a drug stock specialist at CR Intrinsic, and Dr. Sidney Gilman, a neurologist.
Two days before Thanksgiving, federal agents arrested Mr. Martoma. Prosecutors said that Dr. Gilman had leaked him secret data about clinical trials that he was overseeing for an Alzheimer's drug being jointly developed by Elan and Wyeth.
The case was a turning point in the investigation of SAC because, for the first time, the government linked Mr. Cohen to trades that it contends were illegal. Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen collaborated on the Elan and Wyeth transactions, prosecutors said, earning SAC profits and avoiding losses totaling $276 million. After Mr. Martoma learned from Dr. Gilman - whom he met through an expert network - that there were problems with the trials, he reached out to his boss, the government said.
"Is there a good time to catch up with you this morning? It's important," Mr. Martoma e-mailed Mr. Cohen in July 2008, just days before Elan and Wyeth announced their findings.
An hour later, Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen had a 20-minute telephone conversation. SAC promptly sold a $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth and then made a big negative bet. After the drug companies released the negative data, their shares plummeted.
An S.E.C. lawyer interviewed Mr. Cohen about the Elan and Wyeth trades this summer, according to a person briefed on the case. In sworn testimony, he said that SAC sold the stocks because Mr. Martoma told him that he had lost conviction in the position, this person said. Otherwise, Mr. Cohen had little recall of their conversation.
Federal agents paid a house call to Mr. Martoma a year ago, pressuring him to "flip" and help build a case against Mr. Cohen. While speaking with the agents in his front yard, Mr. Martoma fainted. After picking himself up, he declined to cooperate. When the S.E.C. deposed him earlier this year, Mr. Martoma refused to answer questions, invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
The government has said it will not prosecute Dr. Gilman, who has agreed to testify against Mr. Martoma.
SAC continues to operate during the intensifying investigation. The negative attention and controversy aggravates and angers Mr. Cohen, said a friend, but his ability to compartmentalize allows him to maintain a focus on investing.
An SAC spokesman said Wednesday that Mr. Cohen is cooperating with the government's inquiry.
During market hours, Mr. Cohen can be found at the center of his football field-size trading floor in Stamford, Conn., sitting among his traders, sifting through information, and buying and selling stocks. SAC, which manages $14 billion, is up about 12 percent this year through the end of last month.
"None of this stuff is material to his returns and it's all just a lot of noise," said Ed Butowsky, managing partner of Chapwood Investments, a longtime SAC client. "Steve Cohen is the Michael Jordan of the hedge fund business. When people are successful everyone likes to take shots at them."
Ben Protess contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (A1)
Donald Longueuil, who worked at SAC Capital Advisors, received inside information about the chip maker Marvell Technology from Noah Freeman and earned more than $1 million in profit. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud and is serving a two-and-a-half year sentence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS)
Jon Horvath admitted to insider trading while at SAC Capital and cooperated with investigators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Federal agents have asked Mathew Martoma to help build a case against Steven A. Cohen of SAC. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A26) GRAPHIC: A Look at Insider Trading: Some of the cases involving former employees of SAC Capital Advisors, the fund run by Steven A. Cohen. (Source: New York Times reports
 court records) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); WIRETAPPING (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); DEPOSITIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SUBPOENAS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (89%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012



182 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: At Climate Talks, a Struggle Over Aid for Poorer Nations

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar -- The United Nations climate conference here has settled into its typical doldrums, with most major questions unresolved as a Friday evening deadline for concluding the talks approaches. One of the thorniest issues is money, which has often bedeviled these affairs.
Since the process for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change began about 20 years ago, countries have been split into two often-warring camps: the small number of wealthy nations that provide money to help deal with the effects of global warming, and the much larger group of poorer states that receive it. 
At a climate summit meeting in Copenhagen three years ago, the industrialized countries promised to secure $10 billion a year in funds for adapting to climate change over the following three years and $100 billion a year beginning in 2020. The short-term money has more or less been raised and spent, although some nations have quarreled over whether it was new money or simply repurposed foreign aid. A Green Climate Fund has been established to handle the money after 2020.
Left unclear was whether money would flow from 2013 to 2020. That is what negotiators from about 190 countries are fighting about here.
And it is a particularly difficult time for the donor nations to find new money. The United States, which traditionally provides about a quarter of such international finance, is teetering on a fiscal precipice, and few in Washington are thinking about finding several billion dollars to help sub-Saharan Africa or precarious island nations cope with drought and rising seas.
Jonathan Pershing, the State Department's deputy special envoy for climate change, said Wednesday that the United States had ''every intention'' of finding money for climate adaptation. But he pointedly noted that in the United States, ''like most places, the budgeting process is complicated.''
Pete Betts, the principal climate negotiator for the European Union, said that Europe would continue to provide climate money. But he, too, noted, ''These are tough financial times, and many states are in difficult circumstances, so we won't be in a position to state our target for 2015.''
This reticence by richer countries annoys the recipient countries, which see it as avoiding responsibility for decades of uncontrolled emissions that now threaten the health of the planet.
Some, like Brazil, raise legalistic objections that the wealthier countries promised in previous agreements to provide a steady flow of such financing.
André Corrêa do Lago, the chief Brazilian delegate, said, ''There is a very different interpretation between developed and developing countries, which is natural because some are giving the money and some are getting the money.''
He said that most developing countries had believed that the roughly $10 billion a year in short-term money would be replaced by a gradual increase until 2020. He said he was sympathetic to the budget problems of Europe and the United States, but he also said that unless the donor countries promised to keep up their support, Brazil and other countries would not allow the negotiating process to go forward.
''If at the end you don't, it's a very frustrating exercise,'' he said.
The most impassioned voices, as usual, are representatives of poor African nations and of low-lying island states threatened with being swamped by rising seas.
''Please, ladies and gentlemen,'' the delegate from Nauru, a Pacific island nation, pleaded to the assembly, ''show me on a map which countries you think are expendable.''
Todd D. Stern, the senior American diplomat here, said the United States understood the impatience and frustration of its negotiating partners from the developing world. Addressing the conference on Wednesday, he said that different countries had different abilities to cope with a changing climate and to find the money to adapt. He said that the United States was willing to discuss the concepts of equity and ''common but differentiated responsibilities,'' terms that carry heavy emotional and historical baggage at these gatherings.
In what was read by many here as a shift in tone, Mr. Stern said that such notions would be central to the outcome of a new global climate change treaty that is supposed to be concluded by 2015 and take effect in 2020 under an agreement reached in Durban, South Africa, a year ago.
''The United States would welcome such a discussion, because unless we can find common ground on that principle and the way in which it should apply in the world of the 2020s, we won't succeed in producing a new Durban Platform agreement,'' Mr. Stern said. ''And we have to succeed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Izabella Teixeira, Brazil's environment minister, at the United Nations climate meeting in Qatar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); QATAR (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012



183 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH FRANCI SAGAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: An '80s Hit Preps for a Comeback

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
IT is a bit of a flashback to walk into Franci Sagar's Wooster Street loft. First, it is an unreconstructed '80s-era habitat, with a huge bed at its center and little islands of activity, collections and furniture bobbing about. Then there's the olfactory whomp of the place -- toasty, spicy, cedar-inflected -- that brings a whiff of Ms. Sagar's hit machine, the home store known as Zona.
Finally, it's a rental, a throwback to a time when the lease on a place like this was one of the more valuable Manhattan commodities (the rent, which is now $1,980 a month, was only $400 in the early 1980s). That lease is a legacy Ms. Sagar would like to pass on to her daughter, Sophie, 23, along with a business partnership that aims to bring back the Zona brand, starting with a pop-up store that opens next week in a TriBeCa gallery. 
On a recent afternoon, mother and daughter, both of whom have husky, eager voices and share a taste for handmade things with a good back story, showed off a few of the new Zona wares: yak travel blankets and silk ''landing'' rugs to put next to your bed; handmade candles with wooden wicks that crackle; felted rocks and beaded insects from Italy; and a curiously shaped water carafe, the design of which is based on sacred geometry that purports to do wild things to water. Tactile and more than a little woo-woo, the objects fit right into the space, which, like its inhabitants, encourages confessional behavior.
''It's the bed,'' said Sophie.
''There is something about this house,'' added her mother. ''The house number is a seven, as was Zona's. Something happens when people are in it. I know it sounds dorky.''
This is a new chapter in a story that would seem to have concluded 12 years ago, when Zona closed its Greene Street doors for good and the name was tucked into the file drawers, as Ms. Sagar, now 58, put it, of the venture capitalists who had bought a controlling interest in the store in the 1990s. The penultimate chapter was her divorce from Louis Sagar, one of SoHo's first commercial pioneers, in 1993, and her retreat from the business they had built together. If it seems odd to revive a long-shuttered store now, well, Zona was always a bit more than just a store. It was one of a clutch of experiential retail environments that grew organically downtown at the time.
There were no multinationals on the cobblestone streets then, just a few creative partnerships that were short on business plans but had a strong aesthetic point of view. Over on West Broadway, the folks at Ad Hoc Softwares imagined the accouterments for a high-tech, hard-edge urban loft, but Zona was firmly anti-machine, blending Santa Fe style (Soleri bells and teak furniture) with Smith & Hawken tools and handmade objects like fat marble peaches from Italy and rustic wood dough bowls. It looked and sounded like a spa, with its New Age soundtrack and cedar potpourri. It's hard to imagine a time when that combination was new, but back then, it truly was.
As Stephen Drucker, a design media veteran, said: ''The Native American flute music, we'd never heard that before! Now everybody has embraced the idea of the quirky concept store that sells some combination of Assouline books and candles and lotion and jewelry. But in those days, all of those people'' -- Judy Auchincloss and Julia McFarlane of Ad Hoc, Peri Wolfman and Charles Gold of Wolfman-Gold and Good Company, who sold white pottery and white denim sofas, pre-Shabby Chic, across the street from Zona -- ''had discovered a world and were passionate about that world and brought it to New York City. And you couldn't walk into those stores without wanting a piece of it. It was retail theater.''
Zona's mandate, to sell objects with a soul, was easy to parody. Items came with little printed cards, like hangtag CliffsNotes, explaining that weathered wood, for instance, ''communicates the spirit of another time,'' or exhorting you to deploy a marble peach ''as a textural accent.''
But Franci and Lou Sagar weren't kidding. They were earnest about their mission, and by gum, you found yourself, over and over, buying marble peaches and weathered wood dough bowls. And you weren't alone. In the late 1980s, on any given Saturday in early December, Zona had a line that stretched around the block, like a disco.
''There was so much money,'' recalled Pauline Kelley, a former Zona manager. ''There were bankers, socialites. Giorgio Armani would come with an entourage of 10 pretty boys. Keith Richards would be sitting in a car with the door open, and Patti Hansen and her entourage would come in. Bankers would say, 'Tell me what to buy!' People from Ralph Lauren would come and sketch our things on letterhead and I'd say, 'Why don't you just buy it?' ''
BY the early '90s, Zona was beating records, with sales of more than $1,000 a square foot at its high point, and there were outposts in Tokyo, Florence, East Hampton and Aspen. The store was perfectly positioned, as Mr. Sagar said recently, to outfit the second homes of wealthy New Yorkers, who were all of a sudden moving away from the decorator-imprinted environments of their parents into something more casual.
''They were realizing their summer homes could be treated like real homes; they were entertaining there and congregating there,'' he said. ''And we followed them.''
When the marriage fell apart, Mr. Sagar, who had a notion to be a kind of Zen home Martha Stewart, began courting venture capitalists. It would seem that the Zona concept, like the marriage, was strained by its expansion. In any case, by the end of the last millennium, Mr. Sagar had lost interest in Zona, which floundered under new owners and then folded in 2000.
Ms. Sagar's post-Zona career as a retail consultant flourished: she opened stores for Carly Simon and a partner on Martha's Vineyard, as well as a clothing store in Italy, and revamped the museum store at what is now the Museum of Arts and Design, where she is now the director and vice president for retail and brand development (and, tellingly, many on her staff, like Pauline Kelley, are former Zona-ites). But she couldn't quite recover from the loss of Zona.
''It really was my first child, and when I was out, I really suffered,'' she said. ''I couldn't walk down Greene Street for years. I was shellshocked: 'Who am I after doing it for so many years?' ''
So she wrote to Zona's owners.
''I said I would really appreciate it if I could have the name, since it's just sitting in your file drawers,'' she recalled. ''They wrote back that I could have it if I gave them 10 percent of gross sales.''
Then she waited them out. According to trademark law, if a name isn't used within a five-year period, it's considered ''abandoned,'' and so in 2005, Ms. Sagar applied for and received ownership of the Zona name. By 2008, she had raised enough money to open, but the recession hit. Then she found herself under the same trademark deadline as Zona's former owners, which is why Zona, the pop-up store, is opening temporarily in the Cheryl Hazan Gallery next week, instead of later next year in more permanent digs.
What the delay has meant, however, is a collaboration with Sophie, post-college, and her friend Philippa Crowne, both of whom went to Bard High School Early College. While Ms. Sagar and her daughter, who are now roommates and business partners, are emblematic of so many contemporary family scenarios (the boomerang phenomenon shows no signs of abating, as young adults between 24 and 29 are living at home in numbers not seen since before World War II), Sophie said it's not a strain.
''The truth is, there was never a time when I wasn't involved in my mom's work,'' she said. ''Even when I was young, our vacations were always looking at artists' studios, and it was, 'Sophie, what do you think of this?' And the truth is, I am genuinely inspired by Franci. When I was trying to figure out where to work, at first it was like, 'Too bad Franci is my mom.' ''
Their challenge, of course, is to make a Zona that's relevant today. In the decades since Ms. Sagar set out her first marble peaches, stores like Zona have appeared in nearly every neighborhood. And the practice of connecting an object to its maker and history, as Zona did, has become almost a cliché, as retailer after retailer hustles toward the elusive pursuit of the truly authentic.
Mr. Sagar said: ''I think Sophie and her mom have a strong desire to reinvent Zona for her generation. But the amount of information people have today has changed the consuming process, though a great passion and a great eye still resonates. My encouragement to Sophie is to not dwell so much on history. If you depend on everybody's nostalgia, you're not going to build a new audience. It needs to be about how the next generation communicates creative stuff.''
Their notion, to open a store that's ''more like a community center where you can buy things,'' Ms. Sagar said, includes not just physical wares but experiential ones: field trips to the studios of artists like Jessica Wickham, whose lusty wood furniture will be sold at Zona, or a night at Rock Hall, an inn in Litchfield County, Conn., with readings (''story time'') and a movie. It's not a bad business model, to mimic the practices of art dealers who help collectors forge a connection with artists whose work they might eventually buy.
Holly Hotchner, the director of the Museum of Arts and Design, hired Ms. Sagar 13 years ago and credits her not just with reimagining the museum's store, but with re-branding the museum when it morphed from the American Craft Museum into its new identity on Columbus Circle.
''A lot of people have a great eye,'' Ms. Hotchner said. ''Think of how many great stores have crashed and burned. But Franci is able to figure out what her customer is going to value. It's fun or ironic or something that Sophie is going to try and fill her shoes. Those are big shoes to fill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOUND OBJECTS: Franci Sagar's loft is filled with curious items, like an antique bicycle. Above, her daughter Sophie's journal. Second from right, silk ''landing'' rugs that will be for sale at Zona.
COLLABORATION: Sophie and Franci Sagar are roommates and business partners, reviving the Zona brand in a pop-up store next week. Above, a slipper chair and antique locks.
OLD AND NEW: A pillow by Rifat Ozbek
Japanese glass vessels
raw silk and gold wire lamp by Eric Rhein
 a ''flowerbox'' from the original Zona and a praying mantis pin by Gabriella Kiss. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RANDY HARRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (88%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2012



184 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: In Fine Print of Fiscal Debate, Charities Unite to Defend Deductions

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Proposals to cap or otherwise limit deductions in order to raise tax revenue from the wealthy are gaining bipartisan support in Washington -- and making charities and nonprofits very worried.
Concerned that special tax benefits to encourage Americans to give to charity might be significantly curtailed in the negotiations between President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner, scores of nonprofit leaders came to Washington this week for a coordinated lobbying effort.
''Normally, every nonprofit is focused on its own particular mission, whether saving the environment, or helping children, or imbuing a greater appreciation for art,'' said Diana Aviv, the chief executive of Independent Sector, an umbrella group for nonprofits that helped organize this week's effort. ''For the first time, I've seen the sector coming together. We're like Rip Van Winkle waking up and saying, This is not O.K.!'' 
At stake is the $300 billion that Americans donate to nonprofits every year -- and the $50 billion a year that tax deductions for charitable giving costs the government.
Both Republicans and Democrats say they want to maintain tax laws that encourage Americans to give money to nonprofit groups. But with the White House looking to raise an additional $1.6 trillion in revenue over 10 years, and Republicans looking to raise $800 billion, there is growing bipartisan support for peeling back some of the special breaks for high-income households.
That prospect has spurred Ms. Aviv and other nonprofit leaders to meet with high-ranking Obama aides for what participants described as a passionate discussion -- if one largely about arcane matters.
The charity participants laid out their fears about lost revenue and abrogated programs, even if donations only dip at the margins.
The White House -- represented by the senior adviser Valerie Jarrett, the chief of staff Jacob Lew, Gene Sperling of the National Economic Council and Cecilia Muñoz of the Domestic Policy Council -- shared concerns about tax changes that might unduly cut into charitable giving. But officials said revenue had to come from somewhere.
On Capitol Hill on Wednesday, leaders from local nonprofits like churches, schools and homeless shelters visited lawmakers to deliver the same message.
''So much of this Washington debate is focused on high-end taxpayers,'' said Steve Taylor, public policy counsel for the United Way Worldwide. ''From our perspective, that's not what it's about. It's about the people who will have less access to the services our charities provide.''
The Rev. Larry J. Snyder, president of Catholic Charities USA, agreed.
''If this benefit goes away, who's going to pick up the slack?'' he said. ''Definitely not the government. It's the only deduction that directly impacts community benefit. Cutting it -- it defies the logic of cutting, I think.''
Charities said that little of what they were hearing behind closed doors allayed their fears that in a rush to cut long-term budget deficits Congress might also end up cutting charitable giving.
''There is no elected official who would rather say, 'I had to cut your program' than 'There is a process that resulted in your program being cut,' '' said Christopher W. Hansen, the president of the American Cancer Society's Cancer Action Network. ''But if you design a deduction cap the wrong way, you decimate the charitable sector.''
Both Democrats and Republicans have shown a willingness to roll back some deductions for high-income households, and more broadly to clean up the $1 trillion a year in tax breaks in the code. But how they might agree to do that remains unclear.
One option, floated by Mitt Romney, the former Republican presidential candidate, is capping the total amount a household could deduct at perhaps $25,000 or $50,000.
Another proposal, backed by the White House, is limiting the value of the charitable-giving deduction to 28 percent, down from the current cap of 35 percent, for households with income above $250,000 a year.
Economists and policy experts are divided on how much such proposals may reduce charitable giving.
Capping the value of the deduction, as the White House has suggested, might reduce giving by as much as $7 billion a year out of $300 billion over all, according to an estimate by Independent Sector.
But other estimates have proved more moderate. For instance, the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University last year analyzed the Obama administration's proposal to increase marginal tax rates and cap the value of charitable giving. It estimated that itemized giving would have declined just 0.4 percent in the first year after being put in place and 1.3 percent in the second.
''This suggests a relatively small direct impact, but combined with the weak economic climate, funding reductions and increased demand for services already affecting some nonprofits and their constituents, these changes are likely to have an additional negative effect in the long term,'' Patrick M. Rooney, executive director of the Center on Philanthropy, said in a statement.
The Obama administration said that concerns over charitable giving are driving its push to get Republicans to allow the Bush-era tax cuts to expire for income over $250,000 a year. To raise $800 billion in tax revenue from the wealthy solely by scrubbing the code clean would require eradicating too much of the incentive for charitable giving, it said.
''You cannot get the kind of revenue that you need simply from capping deductions or closing loopholes without taxing the heck out of the middle class -- and that's unacceptable for the president -- or without ending the charitable deduction or doing other things that would never fly on Capitol Hill, for good economic as well as political reasons,'' said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary.
This week, at least one person came away convinced of the White House's logic.
''If nonprofit leaders don't want changes to the charitable deduction, it is imperative that we get behind the president's call for higher tax rates on the wealthy,'' said Aaron Dorfman of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy in a statement.
''The majority of nonprofits know this is true,'' Mr. Dorfman said, ''and I urge the hundreds of nonprofit leaders who have traveled to our nation's capital for visits with members of Congress today to clearly advocate for higher tax rates on the wealthy in addition to their advocacy in opposition to any changes to the charitable deduction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diana Aviv leads an umbrella group for nonprofits that is urging lawmakers to preserve tax deductions for charitable giving. (B1)
 Diana Aviv of Independent Sector met with officials at the White House. Americans give $300 billion a year to nonprofits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (83%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



185 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Strikes Again

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Lately, you've probably been asking: ''What ever happened to Rick Santorum? The guy who ran for president in the sweater vest? The one who compared homosexuality to bestiality and did 50 push-ups every morning?'' It's certainly been on my mind.
Santorum is still in there swinging. Lately, he's been on a crusade against a dangerous attempt by the United Nations to help disabled people around the world. This week, he won! The Senate refused to ratify a U.N. treaty on the subject. The vote, which fell five short of the necessary two-thirds majority, came right after 89-year-old Bob Dole, the former Republican leader and disabled war veteran, was wheeled into the chamber to urge passage. 
''We did it,'' Santorum tweeted in triumph.
Well, it doesn't get any better than that.
The rejected treaty, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, is based on the Americans with Disabilities Act, the landmark law Dole co-sponsored. So, as Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts kept pointing out during the debate, this is a treaty to make the rest of the world behave more like the United States. But Santorum was upset about a section on children with disabilities that said: ''The best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration.''
''This is a direct assault on us and our family!'' he said at a press conference in Washington.
O.K.
The hard right has a thing about the United Nations. You may remember that the senator-elect from Texas, Ted Cruz, once railed that a 20-year-old nonbinding United Nations plan for sustainable development posed a clear and present threat to American golf courses.
The theory about the treaty on the disabled is that the bit about ''best interests of the child'' could be translated into laws prohibiting disabled children from being home-schooled. At his press conference, Santorum acknowledged that wasn't in the cards. But he theorized that someone might use the treaty in a lawsuit ''and through the court system begin to deny parents the right to raise their children in conformity with what they believe.''
If I felt you were actually going to worry about this, I would tell you that the Senate committee that approved the treaty included language specifically forbidding its use in court suits. But, instead, I will tell you about own my fears. Every day I take the subway to work, and I use a fare card that says ''subject to applicable tariffs and conditions of use.'' What if one of those conditions is slave labor? Maybe the possibility of me being grabbed at the turnstile and carted off to a salt mine isn't in the specific law, but what if a bureaucrat somewhere in the Metropolitan Transportation Authority decided to interpret it that way?
No one should have to live in fear of forced labor in the salt mine just because she bought a fare card at the Times Square subway station! I want some action on this matter, and I am writing to my senator right away.
But about the U.N. treaty.
In the Capitol this week, disabled Americans lobbied for ratification, arguing, among other things, that it could make life easier for them when they travel. Since more than 125 countries have already signed onto the treaty, there will certainly be pressure to improve accessibility to buses, restrooms and public buildings around the globe. It would be nice if the United States was at the table, trying to make sure the international standards were compatible with the ones our disabled citizens learn to handle here at home.
But, no, the senators were worried about the home-school movement. Or a boilerplate mention in the treaty of economic, social and cultural rights that Senator Mike Lee of Utah claimed was ''part of a march toward socialism.''
At least some of them were. There would almost certainly have been plenty of votes to approve the treaty if the Republicans had felt free to think for themselves. The ''no'' votes included a senator who had voted for the treaty in committee, a senator who had sent out a press release supporting the treaty and a senator who actually voted ''aye'' and then switched when it was clear the treaty was going down anyway. Not to mention a lot of really depressed-looking legislators.
The big worry was, of course, offending the Tea Party. The same Tea Party that pounded Mitt Romney into the presidential candidate we came to know and reject over the past election season. The same Tea Party that keeps threatening to wage primaries against incumbents who don't do what they're told. The Tea Party who made those threats work so well in the last election that Indiana now has a totally unforeseen Democratic senator.
The threat the Republicans need to worry about isn't in the United Nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (87%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); DISABLED ACCESS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); APPROVALS (60%); LITIGATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); TED CRUZ (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



186 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Boehner Gains Strong Backing Of House G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With a daunting fiscal crisis looming and conservatives outside the House torching him at every turn, Speaker John A. Boehner might be assumed to have a shaky hold on his gavel. Instead, it appears he is enjoying the broadest support of his tumultuous two-year speakership from House Republicans.
As Mr. Boehner digs in for a tense fiscal confrontation with President Obama, the strong embrace from a broad spectrum of the rank and file may empower him as he tries to strike a deal on spending cuts and tax increases that spares the country a recession, without costing Republicans too much in terms of political principle. 
With the election results ensuring another four years with an empowered adversary in the White House, and a growing docket of polls that show voters ready to blame Republicans for a failure to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, many House Republicans appear to view Mr. Boehner with the same sort of respect that adult children award their parents for the sage counsel they ignored in their younger days.
Should his support hold up, Mr. Boehner, who faced a frequent battering from his own members over the last two years as he tried to seal deals on various spending agreements, would be better able to negotiate from a point of relative Republican unity.
And, most important, he would be viewed as able to sell a deal to his once-fractious caucus.
On Wednesday, in a private meeting between Mr. Boehner and House Republicans, member after member spoke in support of him, in some cases saying a deal they would have rejected six months ago would most likely be taken today.
''I want to be a strong advocate and say that I am with the speaker,'' said Representative Scott Rigell of Virginia, a House freshman. ''I am with the leadership.''
Further helping Mr. Boehner, at least for now, is the sense that he is no longer forced to look constantly over his shoulder, fearing a counterproductive move by Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader who has spent much of the past two years quietly maneuvering around Mr. Boehner.
Mr. Cantor signed on this week to Mr. Boehner's package including $800 billion in new revenue, putting him squarely on the same page with the speaker. Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Budget Committee and recent vice-presidential candidate whom many of the most conservative members look to for cues, also signed on.
That proposal, along with the speaker's approval of a decision to strip plum committee assignments from four members who consistently voted against the leadership, has brought great consternation from conservative groups and influential conservatives outside the House. But Mr. Boehner and the majority of his members seem willing to ignore the outcry.
Then there is the not-small matter of fund-raising: Mr. Boehner, who on Wednesday spoke briefly by phone with Mr. Obama about the budget standoff, raised nearly $100 million for Republican House candidates this election cycle, including incumbents, further securing good will.
The dynamic may shift if some members, especially those from very conservative regions, begin to chafe against any deal they feel gives too much ground to Democrats. But for now, Mr. Boehner's stronger hand is a significant shift from previous periods of negotiations, from the first battle over a short-term spending agreement to a fight over the payroll tax to the battles last year over the debt ceiling that led to the current crisis.
''Our members understand the serious issues this country faces,'' Mr. Boehner said Wednesday, when asked about the shift in his conference. ''They understand that we've got to solve this problem, and we will.''
Several Republicans said Wednesday that the combination of the onerous nature of the potential tax increases and spending cuts and the realities of the recent election combined to bolster Mr. Boehner's support.
''I think the presidential election has something to do with it,'' said Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois. ''We understand that we're going to have to deal with Obama for four more years. Also, there is an understanding that this is a very serious situation.''
Over the last two years, many conservative members, buoyed by a group of freshmen who constantly moved the bar for Mr. Boehner on budget negotiations, seemed to drive much of the House agenda, assuming that a Republican would occupy the White House next year.
But with Mitt Romney's and Mr. Ryan's White House dreams dashed, Mr. Boehner resumes the role of the titular head of his party here, and many members realize they have little choice left but to support him.
''He is the de facto negotiator for the party,'' said Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, who along with other lawmakers from his state has given Mr. Boehner headaches in the past. ''Perhaps I am practicing the grace that comes from watching someone try to do what I myself cannot do.''
Further, many members saw some of their loudest oppositional colleagues marginalized or voted out of office, like Representative Joe Walsh of Illinois. In turn, members who have previously supported Mr. Boehner without comment are beginning to raise their voices.
''I think many of us who were being quiet two summers ago are going to call it for what it is,'' said Representative Pat Tiberi, Republican of Ohio. It is Mr. Obama, not Mr. Boehner, he said, who should be the focus of Republican ire. Mr. Tiberi was at once resigned and hopeful.
''I don't think we have much leverage, to be honest,'' he said. But, he added, ''This is a rare opportunity to get something done.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); APPROVALS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); SCOTT RIGELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



187 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Dec. 6

BYLINE: INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: News, arts and sports in today's International Herald Tribune. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Rescuers sought to reach isolated villages Wednesday after a typhoon struck the Philippines, killing at least 325 people and leaving thousands homeless. Floyd Whaley reports from Manila.
Greece's economic troubles are often attributed to a public sector packed full of redundant workers, a lavish pension system and uncompetitive industries hampered by overpaid workers with lifetime employment guarantees. Often overlooked, however, is the role played by a handful of wealthy families, politicians and the news media that make up the Greek power structure. Rachel Donadio and Liz Alderman report. 
Britons, many already weary of government austerity budgets that some economists say are impeding the country's recovery, are going to have to wait even longer for relief. Julia Werdigier and Stephen Castle report from London.
Four of the five largest oil and gas discoveries in the world this year have been made off Mozambique, including three earlier finds by the Italian company Eni. These discoveries have the potential to put Mozambique, which previously had little oil and gas production, in the gas-exporting big leagues with countries like Qatar and Australia. Stanley Reed reports.
European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent company of Airbus, will dissolve a decade-old arrangement that gave the governments of France and Germany a veto over strategic management decisions. Nicola Clark reports from Paris.
 ARTS Art Basel Miami Beach and its satellite fairs highlight how important social media and the Internet are for Asian artists seeking a wider audience. Ella Delany reports.
"Cartooning for Peace," an exhibition of recent political cartoons on the state of affairs in Mediterranean countries, is showing at the Maison des Métallos in Paris. Olivia Snaije talks to the cartoonists.
 SPORTS Two of soccer's financial giants are taking different approaches: Manchester City is now focusing all its effort on the English Premier League, while Paris Saint-Germain, which is struggling in Ligue 1, dreams of Champions League glory. Rob Hughes writes from London.
Four medalists from the Athens Games will lose their medals because officials found evidence of doping in retested urine samples. Mary Pilon reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); TYPHOONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (76%); VETO (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); SPORTS (72%); SOCCER (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); COMPANY STRATEGY (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); LAYOFFS (57%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (56%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (82%); AIRBUS SAS (55%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (82%); EAD (MCE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) FRANCE (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GREECE (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



188 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: General Atlantic Takes Stake in Brazilian Firm

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: The American private equity firm General Atlantic has agreed to invest $200 million for a minority stake in the Brazilian financial services firm XP Investimentos. 

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil - The American private equity firm General Atlantic has agreed to invest $200 million for a minority stake in the Brazilian financial services firm XP Investimentos. 
The deal, announced by the companies on Wednesday, is subject to approval by Brazilian regulatory agencies. 
General Atlantic, which has been in Brazil for 10 years, appears to be making a bet on an expanding financial services sector and middle class even as the country's growth continues to weaken and it continues to have difficulties improving competitiveness. One reason is that once sky-high interest rates here continue to fall, requiring Brazilians to have to think about alternatives for investing their wealth. 
"Everyone talks about the rise of Brazil's middle class, but that's already happened," Martín Escobari, a General Atlantic managing director and head of Latin American investments, said in an interview with DealBook. 
He said the firm was more focused on the "rise of the investor class since now they need to think more strategically about how they allocate their wealth," adding that he saw parallels to the United States in the 1980s, when interest rates fell sharply. 
XP Investimentos is an independent retail broker-dealer and financial advisory company with a valuation of approximately $571 million, according to a company co-founder, Marcelo Maisonnave de Oliveira. 
Part of the transaction will involve purchasing shares from Actis Capital, which invested $48 million in 2010. 
The deal is the fourth in 12 months for General Atlantic, according to Mr. Escobari, a period in which it has made half of its investments in Latin America. 
Those four companies are Aceco TI, Despegar.com, Linx and Sura Asset Management. The investments suggest that the sectors the firm is focusing on are data and enterprise software, e-commerce and financial services. Despegar is an online travel site whose majority shareholder is Tiger Global. Its other investors include Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners. 
General Atlantic has invested about $1.5 billion in its eight deals in Latin America, Mr. Escobari said, in increments of about $100 million to $150 million. 
Mr. Escobari was formerly with Advent International and was co-founder of the Brazilian online company Submarino. 

        
Billionaire Sells Stake in Topshop for $805 Million
        
Brazil Steps Up Investments in Overlooked Tech Start-Ups

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); STARTUPS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%) Brazil; General Atlantic; Private Equity; Financial Services; Venture Capital

COMPANY: ADVENT INTERNATIONAL CORP (84%); ACTIS CAPITAL LLP (54%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (53%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



189 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: A Note for the Transit Chief: Beware the Endorsement From Giuliani

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Joseph J. Lhota, eyeing a run for mayor, is getting enthusiastic support from former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Though when it comes to choosing sides in major elections, Mr. Giuliani has the Midas touch in reverse. 

 BODY:
 If the mass-transit chief, Joseph J. Lhota, is serious about running for mayor next year, he ought to start worrying about the enthusiastic support he is getting from former Mayor . As Mr. Lhota surely knows - he was Mr. Giuliani's deputy at City Hall, after all - a blessing from his old boss is a political version of the kiss of death.
 When it comes to choosing sides in major elections, the former mayor has the Midas touch in reverse. It's a wonder that recipients of his endorsements don't take to wearing cloves of garlic when he is around. 
 His victims are many:
 He for re-election in 1994, only to watch Mr. Cuomo get clobbered by George E. Pataki. In 1996, he gushed over the Republican vice-presidential nominee, Jack Kemp (and accepted with less enthusiasm the man at the top of the party's national ticket, Bob Dole). You haven't heard much of late about the Dole-Kemp administration, have you?
 Mr. Giuliani's heart was clearly with John McCain in the 2000 presidential race, and more openly so in 2008 once his own ambitions crumbled. We know how that turned out. In Kentucky two years ago, he supported a man named Trey Grayson in the Republican Senate primary, a race won by Rand Paul. He preferred Newt Gingrich in 2012, going so far at one point as to dismiss Mitt Romney as making a weather vane look like a symbol of constancy. He then to be Mr. Romney's vice-presidential sidekick. A month ago, he vilified President Obama while campaigning for the Romney-Ryan ticket in New Hampshire, and lost that state.
 We could go on.
 A notable exception to the Giuliani jinx is Michael R. Bloomberg. For all his billions, Mr. Bloomberg might never have been elected mayor in 2001 had the Sept. 11 attacks not occurred. After that, a Giuliani endorsement was worth something for a while. But soon enough, political normalcy reasserted itself.
 Now the former mayor has championed Mr. Lhota, a fellow Republican who is chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Any City Hall ambitions that Mr. Lhota may have are no doubt bolstered by the high marks he deservedly received for getting the subways up and running in reasonably short order after Hurricane Sandy.
 "I'd like to see him run," Mr. Giuliani told The Daily News. That orison alone ought to be enough to give Mr. Lhota the shivers.
 It is not yet 2013, but already the race is shaping up as a potentially splendid spectacle. You have to love it when Mr. Bloomberg, who has all but publicly serenaded Christine C. Quinn, is revealed to have privately urged Hillary Rodham Clinton (who doesn't even live in the city) to run for mayor. And to think that Verdi wrote how it's the woman who is fickle. 
 This could become one of the more intriguing mayoral elections since 1977, when the lineup was packed with political heavyweights. At various stages, they included the ultimately triumphant Edward I. Koch, Mario Cuomo, Bella S. Abzug, Herman Badillo, Percy Sutton, Roy M. Goodman, Barry Farber, Edward N. Costikyan, Joel Harnett - oh yes, and the incumbent mayor, Abraham D. Beame.
 Republicans here are usually an afterthought, fitting neatly the description that Will Rogers gave of himself as a confirmed Democrat: a man who belongs to no organized political party.
 But what is called the Republican Party in the city can be a handy vehicle for any outsider looking to outflank better-known Democrats, whose politicians, in some cases, have been on stage almost as long as "The Phantom of the Opera." Mr. Giuliani, a true Republican, used the party that way. So did Mr. Bloomberg, a sort-of Republican for a time. A full generation has been born and come of age since the last Democrat captured City Hall: David N. Dinkins in 1989.
 Now Mr. Lhota is toying with the possibilities. Not that the road will be easy, as Mr. Giuliani himself cautioned. Mr. Lhota is a talented fellow. But even if he dodged the Giuliani curse, he would be running right after having presided over an increase in the subway and bus fare. That ought to make him really popular.
 And should he survive both the Rudy hex and the fare raise, a rival just might remind voters that post-Giuliani, Mr. Lhota went to work for James L. Dolan, the unloved jefe of Madison Square Garden.
 But that, too, need not be an insurmountable problem. If there are no Knicks or Rangers fans in the electorate, Mr. Lhota should be fine.

        
Trying to Imagine City Hall After Bloomberg
        
Using the Power of the Purse to Steer Politics
        
In Doling Out Economic Incentives, Bloomberg Looks Outside Manhattan
        
Giuliani Peers Down Into the Presidential Pool ...
        
Strong Poll Numbers for Mayoral Hopefuls, Thanks in Part to Storm

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); MAYORS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TERRORISM (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); HURRICANE SANDY (64%) Elections; Joseph J. Lhota; Mayors; Rudolph W. Giuliani; Giuliani, Rudolph W; Lhota, Joseph J; Elections, Mayors; New York City; The Day

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); RAND PAUL (53%) Giuliani, Rudolph W; Lhota, Joseph J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



190 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: A Liberal Take on Family and Opportunity

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Lane Kenworthy on the link between family structure and economic mobility. 

 BODY:
In the latest Foreign Affairs, Lane Kenworthy has an essay on opportunity in America that brings a liberal perspective to bear on themes that will be familiar to my readers - in particular, the link between marriage and social mobility, and the ways in which family structure rather than race or gender is emerging as the biggest cleavage in 21st century America. The essay is well worth reading in full, both for its analysis and its policy prescriptions: Kenworthy ranges across marriage promotion, the child tax credit, education costs, mass incarceration, and class-based affirmative action, offering a more left-of-center (that is, somewhat more goverment-centric and free-spending) alternative to the pro-family, "Party of Sam's Club" populism that certain writers have been urging on the Republican Party unsuccessfully for some time.
I just want to highlight one place where I would differ a little with Kenworthy, because it offers a chance to link the question of family structure and opportunity to the issue of declining birth rates that I've been writing about, completely uncontroversially, this week: 
Fewer children in the United States grow up with both biological parents than in any other affluent country for which data are available.
To remedy this, some, such as Barbara Dafoe Whitehead and David Popenoe, co-directors of the National Marriage Project at Rutgers, favor efforts to promote marriage. But research by the sociologists Kathryn Edin, Sara McLanahan, and Paula England and others suggests that this strategy is misplaced. Since women today need less from marriage and expect more from it than they used to, those who are better educated and better off tend to take more time to get established in their jobs and find good partners, which enhances the likelihood of a lasting marriage (or cohabitation). They delay childbearing as well. Among poorer and less-educated women, who see little prospect of a fulfilling and lucrative career, having a child in their teens or early 20s remains common. These women are less likely to stay with a partner: they have had less time to mature personally and to find a person with whom they are compatible, their partners are more likely to have weak financial prospects and a preference for traditional gender roles, and the presence of a child heightens financial and interpersonal tensions. Given all this, convincing more young low-income couples who get pregnant to marry is unlikely to produce many lasting relationships.
Genuine progress probably hinges on poor or less-educated women delaying childbirth. Eventually, this will happen; the teen birthrate has already been dropping for nearly two decades, albeit slowly. For its part, Washington (or any other government) has only limited tools to speed it up. The best might be an education campaign, as Ron Haskins and Isabelle Sawhill, policy experts at the Brookings Institution, have suggested, that focuses on the benefits of the "success sequence": first education, then a stable job, then marriage, and then children.
Here I think Kenworthy combines a dose of useful skepticism about efforts to promote marriage via social pressure alone with a dose of unwarranted optimism about the current trajectory of working-class childbearing. He's clearly right to note that while marriage can dramatically improve the socioeconomic prospects for parents and children alike, this only holds if the man is actually bringing something to the table, and isn't just a drain on his wife's financial and emotional resources. (Anyone interested in pondering the latter problem should combine repeated viewings of "Teen Mom" with this depressing Jonathan Rauch article.) Sometimes the institution of marriage stabilizes feckless men, and helps them become real fathers and providers, but sometimes it doesn't - and the material foundation available to the couple can make all the difference. This is why social conservatism without some kind of economic agenda focused on working class interests is at best woefully incomplete: To encourage a virtuous interaction between family stability and economic opportunity, policymakers have to work both halves of the circle.
But if just encouraging expectant couples to tie to the knot is an insufficient response to the downscale social crisis, putting too much faith in the "progress" offered by delayed childbearing also seems like a mistake. As Kenworthy allows, less-educated women are already waiting longer and longer to have children - and yet to date, the decline in teen births hasn't led to a decline in the out-of-wedlock birth rate rate (quite the opposite), or made the "marriage" part of the education-job-marriage-children path any easier to follow. Delayed childbearing does seem to have reduced the working class birthrate overall, or at least increased the rate of childlessness among women without a college education. But that fertility drop hasn't delivered more family stability to the downscale women who do have kids, or to the children themselves.
Now there's a case to be made, I suppose, that this combination - higher out-of-wedlock births in downscale communities, but fewer children overall - is just the best American society can do. The two-parent family isn't coming back, this argument might run, the working class male can't hack it in the new economy, so better to just encourage working class women to have fewer children so that their work-life balance is easier to manage and the children that they do have aren't competing for scarce maternal resources with too many brothers and sisters. We just need to live with the marital landscape as it is, accept that fatherless households and male shiftlessness (decadence ...?) will be the norm in working class America for the foreseeable future, and try to mitigate the negative consequences for the kids born into unstable homes by hoping that fewer of them are born at all.
Obviously I think this framing ignores the significant downsides of too-low-to-replace-ourselves birthrates. But more importantly, it just seems impossibly depressing - a surrender to trends that have deprived mothers of partners, children of fathers, and working class Americans of the opportunities for material advancement and personal flourishing that this country is supposed to afford. Which is why the rest of Kenworthy's essay is so useful: His mix of analysis and policy prescriptions suggests that in a world where social conservatives took economic policy more seriously, and liberalism was willing to admit how much the two-parent family matters, we might be able to chart a different course.

        
What Charles Murray Gets Right
        
Can We Be Sweden?
        
Having It All
        
Gay Parents and the Marriage Debate
        
Straussian Social Conservatives?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COHABITATION (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WRITERS (68%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (67%) Culture Wars; Domestic Policy; liberalism; Sex and Marriage; social conservatism; the working class

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



191 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Chief Strategist Dissects Campaign

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: The first postcampaign book has yet to hit shelves, but Stuart Stevens, the chief strategist of Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential bid, offered his take on the race on "The Charlie Rose Show." 

 BODY:
The first postcampaign book has yet to hit shelves, but on Wednesday, Stuart Stevens, the chief strategist of Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential bid, offered his own take on the race on "The Charlie Rose Show." In an extended and wide-ranging interview, Mr. Stevens was by turns defiant, humble, philosophical and revisionist.
 Conceding a few mistakes - "Look, they won, we lost, they did a better job," Mr. Stevens said - he argued that the Republican Party in general faces a problem with Hispanic voters, but that Mr. Romney was not hampered by his decision during the early nominating contests to tack to the right, advocating a process of "self-deportation" for illegal immigrants. 
"You know, on immigration specifically, it's a very complicated issue," he said. "And, if you look at the - the Republicans obviously have a lot of problems in - with Hispanic voters, and we have to do a lot better and we have to work on it on a number of fronts. Immigration is part of that. It's not the only issue, though."
Still, Mr. Stevens added, he would be hesitant to say that Mr. Romney's early immigration posture hurt him during the general election, "because I just don't think it penetrated that much." (Matt Rhoades, Mr. Romney's campaign manager, however, said last week during a forum at the Harvard University Institute of Politics that he regretted the campaign's forceful stance against immigration during the primaries).
Though Mr. Stevens told Mr. Rose that his show was "probably the only" interview he would do, he has been the most visible member of Mr. Romney's Boston brain trust following the candidate's Election Day defeat. Mr. Stevens recently penned an op-ed article for The Washington Post, in which he concluded that on Nov. 6, "Republican ideals - Mitt Romney - carried the day."
 For better or worse, Mr. Stevens was largely credited during the campaign with first settling on a strategy of painting the election as a referendum on President Obama and the economy, only to switch his approach during the fall, when the Romney campaign began trying to portray the election as a choice between competing visions for the country. But Mr. Stevens rejected that framework Wednesday, instead saying that Team Romney's strategy was "never one or the other."
"The whole referendum choice thing was something that was always a bit of a head scratcher because all referendums are choices and all choices are referendums," he said. "There's going to be two people on the ballot, it's a choice but also a referendum in that you had to decide whether you wanted to fire this person or rehire this person."
Echoing a frequent criticism, Mr. Rose asked Mr. Stevens if the Romney campaign had been slow to respond to attacks from Mr. Obama's team in the months before the conventions, allowing the candidate to be defined by his rival as a heartless corporate titan.
"The problem with campaigns is - or the reality of campaigns is that you can't do a lot of things at once," Mr. Stevens said. "It's very difficult when the other side has a lot of money and is able to run two and three spots to every one that you do because they can do a couple of things at once. So we ran those spots in the spring and then when the Obama campaign attacked us, which they did around June, we responded." (Mr. Stevens was critical of the campaign finance system, calling it "atrocious" and saying "it has to be changed.")
Over all, he continued, the Romney campaign simply did not have the bandwidth to do everything it might have liked.
"But it is difficult to establish a person and to be able to do all of these things at once," he said. "And we had to be - make very tough choices, and try to do what we are doing well. And with the hope that by the time we got into the debates, that the impression that the governor could lead would be one that could carry him to victory."
On the topic of Clint Eastwood, whose rambling and off-color convention speech prompted much finger-pointing in Romney-world, Mr. Stevens conceded that, "to a degree it was a distraction. It was bad."
However, he said that Mr. Eastwood had been given a clear set of instructions, which he failed to follow. "We had a very specific thing that he was supposed to say that he had said at fund-raisers before," Mr. Stevens said, before adding that Mr. Eastwood, who spent much of his address talking to an empty chair, did not deliver his talking points "in the same format."
In fact, shortly after the Republican convention, , he was not given a script or any format or guidelines for his remarks, nor was he forced to rehearse his speech.
On Election Day, Mr. Romney told reporters that he fully expected to win and had not even bothered to write a concession speech. Mr. Stevens defended the campaign's rosy view of the race, including their internal polling, which ultimately proved off the mark, showing the race far closer than it actually was.
"We had reason to be optimistic, I would say," he said. "We did not believe that the turnout would be as Democratic as it was. It was plus seven I think; we thought it would be closer to plus three Democratic advantage. And we thought that it would go our way."
Mr. Stevens also made sure to credit Mr. Obama's operation.
"It was a campaign they could have lost and they won," he said. "I would say they ran a better - listen, they ran - the person who wins always runs a better campaign in my book."
He added, with a rueful laugh: "The person who wins the mile was the faster runner."

        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Test Limits of Attacks
        
Romney Visits the White House
        
For Obama and Romney, Lunch at the White House
        
Romney Returns to Iowa for One Last Shot at Victory
        
The Caucus Click: Autograph Seekers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); DEPORTATION (69%) Romney, Mitt; Stevens, Stuart; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); CHARLIE ROSE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt; Stevens, Stuart

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



192 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Midtown Zoning Plan May Imperil Historic Buildings

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: Preservation groups and others say that without landmark designations, many of the structures that give the neighborhood its character could be lost in the name of development. 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's push to increase development in east Midtown would threaten some of the very buildings that give the neighborhood its character, preservation groups and community boards warn. 
The buildings include the Barclay Hotel, the Yale Club, Brooks Brothers flagship store and the Graybar Building, which many New Yorkers may think - incorrectly - are protected as landmarks already.
The proposal is intended to provide a legacy of the Bloomberg administration by ensuring that the area around Grand Central Terminal stays on a competitive footing with business centers worldwide. It would increase the maximum allowable building density by 60 percent for some large sites near the terminal. Potential density would be increased 44 percent along an 11-block stretch of Park Avenue. Lesser increases would take effect elsewhere in the area between East 39th and East 57th Streets and between Fifth and Second Avenues, although most of the easternmost residential blocks would not be affected. 
Such increases in density - meaning higher potential profits for landlords down the road - would give builders an incentive to spend the time and money needed to assemble large development parcels and then empty and demolish the buildings on them. The New York City Planning Department has identified projected and potential development sites in the area (on page 26 of this PDF).
In turn, the Municipal Art Society and the New York Landmarks Conservancy pinpointed more than a dozen buildings over which the shadow of demolition would most likely fall.
"What one would not want to have happen is for the district to become solely a place about Class A office space," said Vin Cipolla, president of the Municipal Art Society. "Great neighborhoods are not monocultures."
It is too early to break out the violin, hard hat and safety goggles. The rezoning proposal is not yet under formal review and will not take effect immediately even if it is adopted next year. By then, a number of buildings identified as vulnerable by preservationists may well have been designated official landmarks.
Among these are the Yale Club, 50 Vanderbilt Avenue; the InterContinental New York Barclay (originally the Barclay Hotel), 111 East 48th Street; the New York Marriott East Side (originally the Shelton), 525 Lexington Avenue; the Graybar Building, 420 Lexington Avenue; the Postum Building, 250 Park Avenue; and the Pershing Square Building, 125 Park Avenue.
These buildings were constructed in the 1910s and 1920s, after the opening of Grand Central Terminal transformed the character of Midtown. Collectively, they speak of the district's history as a neighborhood of large corporations and small businesses, of hotels, men's clubs and men's clothing stores.
The private, 119-year-old Municipal Art Society, which has not figured as prominently in local landmark battles in recent years as it once did, now seems to have returned to the civic fray with a list of 17 buildings it contends warrant consideration for landmark status, including all six noted above.
"We are trying to make the city understand how important it is that the past is incorporated into this vision of a soaring future - and not just remnant pieces of the past," said Ronda Wist, the vice president of the society for preservation and government relations. "Vibrancy, diversity and character are what we're aiming to see preserved."
In its East Midtown Study, the City Planning Department identified aging office buildings with low ceilings as inhibiting the district in its potential for attracting and keeping jobs.
An official of the conservancy, Alex Herrera, whose 16-building preservation list includes many that are also on the Municipal Art Society's list, said, "The conservancy believes that these structures are not obsolete, low-ceilinged disposable construction, but rather represent some of the best architecture in the area, designed by distinguished architects."
Preservationists are not the only ones concerned by the implications of the mayor's rezoning proposal. In a collective statement of principles, Community Boards 4, 5 and 6 raised the question of what would happen to the pre-eminence of other landmarks if high-density skyscrapers were to start sprouting around Grand Central Terminal. "Does this proposal consider the effect on our skyline?" the boards asked. "Does the Chrysler or Empire State Building deserve any special protections?"
Both the Planning Department and the landmarks agency said they were conscious of the historical value of buildings in east Midtown. The landmarks commission is studying the eligibility of many of these structures for designation.
"The city recognizes that a significant part of east Midtown's success and cachet comes from the remarkable collection of historic and iconic buildings that are found here," said Rachaele Raynoff, a spokeswoman for Amanda M. Burden, the director of city planning and chairwoman of the City Planning Commission. "Part of east Midtown's attraction is its mix of old and new. Our goal is to complement this existing character with a handful of new modern office buildings over the course of 20 years that may eventually become 'landmarks' in their own right."

        
A Moment in the Limelight, 30 Years Late
        
A French Church Nears Its End, but Not Without a Contretemps
        
Landmarks Commission Approves Puck Building Penthouse
        
Small Subtractions and Big Addition at Puck Building
        
Architect of Hearst Tower Chosen for Park Avenue Site

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); MEN'S CLOTHING (60%) Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal; Buildings (Structures); Grand Central Terminal (NYC); Historic Buildings and Sites; Real Estate (Commercial); Zoning; City Planning Department (NYC); Landmarks Preservation Commission; Municipal Art Society; New York Landmarks Conservancy; Midtown Area (NYC); New York City; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Government & Politics; Land Use and Planning; Local History; Manhattan

ORGANIZATION: City Planning Department (NYC); Landmarks Preservation Commission; Municipal Art Society; New York Landmarks Conservancy

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Midtown Area (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



193 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Calls on F.A.A. to Allow Electronics on Planes

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, sent a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration Thursday, urging the agency to allow more electronics on airplanes. 

 BODY:
Now the United States government is telling the United States government to allow devices on airplanes during takeoff and landing.
Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, sent a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration Thursday, urging the agency to allow more electronics on airplanes. 
Mr. Genachowski said the F.A.A. should "enable greater use of tablets, e-readers, and other portable devices" during flights. The letter was first obtained by The Hill.
The letter, which was addressed to Michael Huerta, the acting administrator of the F.A.A., went on to promote the importance of allowing people to use these devices on planes as more Americans become increasingly reliant on devices for work and pleasure.
"They empower people to stay informed and connected with friends and family, and they enable both large and small businesses to be more productive and efficient, helping drive economic growth and boost U.S. competitiveness," Mr. Genachowski wrote.
The F.A.A. did not respond to a request for comment.
Although there is no proof that devices like Amazon Kindles and Apple iPads interfere with an airplanes avionics, the F.A.A. has maintained strict rules about passengers turning off their devices during takeoff.
After repeated pressure from the public and media outlets, the F.A.A. has since relented. The agency said it would initiate a review of its policies about electronic devices in all phases of flight, including takeoff and landing. But this review process has been slow.
"This review comes at a time of tremendous innovation, as mobile devices are increasingly interwoven in our daily lives," Mr. Genachowski said in the letter.
The last time any testing was done to review gadgets on planes was in 2006, long before iPads and most smartphones and e-readers existed. During the study, the F.A.A. found that "there was no evidence saying these devices can't interfere with a plane, and there was no evidence saying that they can." Still, they chose to enforce strict rules about gadgets on planes during takeoffs and landings.
But not everyone has been forced to put their gadgets away. Earlier this year the F.A.A. approved iPads instead of paper flight manuals in the cockpit for pilots, but the agency still refuses to allow passengers to read Kindles and iPads during takeoff and landing.

        
Teaching the F.A.A. That Dogs Don't Buckle Up
        
Disruptions: Time to Review F.A.A. Policy on Gadgets
        
Disruptions: Norelco on Takeoff? Fine. Kindle? No.
        
Words With Friends: A Danger to American Skies?
        
It's Called 'Airplane Mode' for a Reason

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (96%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (96%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); AVIONICS (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (76%); SMARTPHONES (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%) airlines; ereaders; FAA; fcc; Smartphones; Tablets; Genachowski, Julius; Huerta, Michael P; Airlines and Airplanes; Electronics; Pilots; Tablet Computers; Federal Aviation Administration; Federal Communications Commission; Devices; Mobile; Policy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) Federal Aviation Administration; Federal Communications Commission

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (92%) Genachowski, Julius; Huerta, Michael P

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



194 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: A Social Business Strikes a Deal With Big Tobacco

BYLINE: TOM SZAKY


HIGHLIGHT: Consumers can create a collection location at no cost by signing up a home or business on our Web site. We pay the shipping, and for each pound of cigarette waste collected, we donate $1 to Keep America Beautiful. 

 BODY:
A few months ago I wrote a blog post about TerraCycle's intention to create a national recycling program for all waste, even including cigarette butts. As our programs have grown, we have had frequent internal debates about what kinds of companies we want to partner with to help them make their waste recyclable (which in turn makes their products greener). 
We have come to understand that every industry has its issues. For example, the food industry has many debates around the use of refined sugar, corn and soy in its products. And the garment industry has issues involving the use of leather and fur, and the cosmetics industry has challenges concerning animal testing, which some retailers require. The list goes on, and I am becoming increasingly confident that there really is no perfect product, which we should all consider when buying stuff.
A month after that post, in mid-May, we introduced the a cigarette-recycling program in Canada. It has been a success with more than 400 collection locations registered and more than 180,000 butts already collected. Somewhat to my surprise, several Canadian media outlets wrote positively about the program. Already, if you search "cigarette recycling," we rank prominently in the top 10 links that come up. 
And now, we've started a similar program in the United States along with Santa Fe Natural Tobacco, a sister company of R.J. Reynolds. We had more than 220 collection locations sign up in the first 24 hours and more than 400 within a few days. 
Consumers can create a collection location at no cost by signing up a home or business on our Web site. We pay the shipping, and for each pound of cigarette waste collected we donate $1 to Keep America Beautiful. We also recently introduced a pilot program in Spain with British American Tobacco. And we've received confirmation of interest from various tobacco companies in other countries that are interested in creating similar programs.
The waste consumers send us is shredded and separated. The organic material is composted (ash, tobacco, and paper) and the inorganic (the cellulose acetate filter, the nonboard packaging components) is made into plastic products, like a plastic pallet.
There is no technical reason why cigarette butts, like all other traditionally nonrecyclable waste, cannot be recycled. It simply costs more to recycle cigarette waste than the output is worth, and recycling companies have chosen not to get into the business. Instead they focus on things like aluminum cans and paper, which have good volumes and strong economics.
In our case, the economics work because the cigarette companies finance the difference by sponsoring our brigades. It's sort of like a voluntary national bottle bill for cigarettes or voluntary extended product responsibility. TerraCycle tries to make money on both ends. Coming in at $15 million in sales this year, however, we're still just modestly profitable. Our hope is that as our collection volumes rise, our profits will, too.
 Tom Szaky is the chief executive of TerraCycle, which is based in Trenton. 

        
Cutting a Deal With Big Tobacco
        
A Plan for a Greener Business
        
The Myth of Biodegradability
        
Partnering With Companies That Sell Alcohol, Guns and Tobacco
        
On Volunteering Negative Information When Selling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); COSMETICS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PLASTICS (60%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (55%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (54%) recycle; social entrepreneurship; tobacco; Recycling of Waste Materials; Small Business; Smoking and Tobacco; TerraCycle; Sustainable Profits

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (58%); SANTA FE NATURAL TOBACCO CO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TerraCycle

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (58%); BTI (JSE) (58%); BATS (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (91%); SPAIN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012



195 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: The Real Fiscal Risks in the United States

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The biggest danger of the looming "fiscal cliff" is that the government will do too little to address underlying problems in the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management.
A great deal of attention is currently focused on the notion that a "fiscal cliff" of higher taxes and spending cuts awaits at the end of this year. The good news is that politicians are finally talking about the budget - and working hard to communicate their competing messages regarding what should be done to put public finance on a more sustainable footing.
The bad news is that almost the entire national conversation on deficits and debts misses the real fiscal risks that we face.
There are three major issues.

First, the main risk is that in the near future the government will do too little by way of fiscal adjustment. 
The drama of the word "cliff" and the image of falling off it makes things seem more worse than they are. To be sure, if all the scheduled tax increases and spending cuts go into effect, 2013 would be a difficult year - although there is no sign that this kind of fiscal adjustment would lead to the problems of the financial crisis of 2008.
The politicians will do a deal. Probably not now, when the Republicans are pressed to raise tax rates - this goes too deeply against what has become an ideology over the last 30 years.
It will be much easier to reach an agreement in January or February, when tax rates have gone up -- which they will do automatically, if there is no agreement by Dec. 31 - and the Republicans are being asked to vote for what would presumably include cutting tax rates for middle-class Americans relative to those new levels.
But the deal to be struck between the White House and the Republican House will probably be too small to adequately address our fiscal issues.
If we want to start putting federal government debt on a more sustainable path, we should find a path to fiscal adjustment that undoes the net effect on the budget of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts, which represent about $4 trillion over the next 10 years. You can do that through revenue or through spending reductions, but that is the right goal to aim for - putting our federal finances back closer to where they were in the late 1990s. (For a primer, I recommend this piece by my colleague James Kwak.)
Such a change would put government debt on track to stabilize around 40 to 50 percent of gross domestic product by 2030 - an entirely reasonable and responsible goal. (In "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You," James and I run through alternative scenarios and discuss the policy options. You can tweak the numbers up or down somewhat, but the most important goal is to take debt off its current explosive path.)
President Obama has suggested a headline number for fiscal adjustment of $1.6 trillion, while the recent Republicans counterbid was $800 billion - both over 10 years (a standard accounting convention for this kind of discussion.)
Irrespective of how you feel about the policy combination each side is proposing, the "big numbers" are too small.
The United States doesn't need to do more immediately. In contrast to many parts of Europe, we have some time to make our fiscal adjustments - particularly while interest rates remain low. The country should phase in a big part of its needed fiscal adjustment as the economy recovers. For example, part of any budget adjustment should be linked to employment relative to G.D.P. - any tax cuts in the new year could be phased out as the economy recovers.
Second, the working assumption of all American politicians is that the dollar will remain the predominant reserve currency indefinitely - the United States is the safe haven for investors and governments around the world. They particularly regard United States government debt as a safe asset in troubled times - and this is what allows us to borrow so much at low interest rates. (For a brief history of public debt in the United States - including how it has been useful in the past and how overreliance on foreign borrowing now makes us vulnerable, see the PBS NewsHour profile of "White House Burning.") 
About half of all federal government debt outstanding is held by foreigners. Sooner or later, foreigners will want to buy less United States debt. Either they will want to hold other assets - the fashion in currencies comes and goes over time, just like everything else - or they will save less (in which case they may hold onto their existing United States government debt but not want to buy so much of new issues).
Many countries hold their foreign reserves in dollars and have built these up over time. China, for example, holds over $1 trillion (the exact number is not public information; some people say the true number is significantly higher). This is far more than China needs, and it is no surprise that its interest in buying more United States Treasury debt is waning (see the latest official data).
No American politician wants to talk in public about what the implications of shifts in China's savings and investments would be on our ability to finance federal government debt at reasonable interest rates. The middle class will pay more tax or receive fewer benefits, or both, over the coming decades - that's the inconvenient math of the Congressional Budget Office. Which politician wants to level with voters on the scale of this issue?
The third risk is that our process of fiscal adjustment will undermine social insurance, primarily Social Security and Medicare.
We insure each other against outliving our assets and encountering an expensive version of ill health in old age. This insurance is mostly run through the federal government, for one simple reason. There was no private insurance market for older Americans before Medicare was created - and there will be none if Medicare is phased out or withers. 
The most likely situation is this. After much shouting, a fiscal deal is reached in the new year - with a headline adjustment of around $1 trillion over 10 years, and perhaps with a 50-50 split between tax increases and spending cuts. Public attention recedes. Commentators proclaim that the budget problem has been fixed.
But then we hit a real fiscal crisis, with foreigners declining to buy newly issued Treasury paper and interest rates on that debt - and interest rates more broadly throughout the economy - rising sharply. The Federal Reserve fights to keep interest rates down, but its monetary policy in that instance is regarded as inflationary, further destabilizing the situation.
That crisis - date unknown but intense for sure - forces much more damaging fiscal cuts, including cuts in Medicare but also across the board (and bringing higher taxes). This is exactly the kind of disruptive fiscal austerity that damages an economy. One such dramatic, even humiliating, potential scenario is described in gripping detail in the opening pages of "Eclipse" by Arvind Subramanian (my colleague at the Peterson Institute for International Economics).
We end up poorer, more unequal and struggling to remember how we ever cared for one another in old age.

        
The 'Fiscal Cliff' Opportunity
        
Is the Fiscal Cliff a Big Deal?
        
The 'Go Fast' and 'Go Big' Fiscal Challenges
        
Mitt Romney and Extreme Fiscal Policy
        
How the Banks Endangered Medicare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MEDICARE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%) Bush tax cuts; Daily Economist; fiscal cliff; fiscal policy; government spending; Medicare; middle class; politics; Republicans; Simon Johnson; spending; tax cuts; Taxation; Federal Budget (US); Congressional Budget Office; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012



196 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Partners' Stake in Goldman Sachs Rises

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: In a regulatory filing, Goldman disclosed that its 407 partners own 12.7 percent of the the investment, up from 11.4 percent in late October. 

 BODY:
The number of partners at Goldman Sachs has remained steady. But the elite group's ownership in the Wall Street firm is rising.
In a regulatory filing, Goldman disclosed that its 407 partners own 12.7 percent of the firm, up from 11.4 percent in late October, according to an analysis of the data by Disclosure Matters, a firm that analyzes corporate disclosures. 
In mid-November, Goldman named 70 new partners, but those additions didn't increase the size of the partnership pool. That is because other partners have left over time. The filing indicates that since the beginning of 2012, 37 partners -- including well-known names like the banker Milton Berlinski and the public relations chief Lucas van Praag -- resigned from Goldman and fell off the list. 
 The minutia of Goldman's partnership pool is closely followed on Wall Street. The bank picks a new partner class every two years, and the candidates are typically the firm's biggest money producers. 
The partnership has also become a bit of a barometer's of Wall Street's health. In good times, the class is larger, and in tough economic times, it shrinks. This year's class was the smallest in years as profit at Goldman has shrank in the face of tough markets and increased government regulation. 
The filing also shows that the number of American citizens in the partnership pool is on the rise, increasing to 60 percent from 56 percent at the beginning of the year. This is in large because of the increase in the number of partners with dual citizenships. 
Goldman is the only publicly traded bank to name partners. It harks back to the firm's years as a private company when the partners owned stakes in the firm. The firm went public in 1999 but created a system where it would still name partners, seeing it as a good way to create incentives and promote its top performers.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment. 

        
Former Goldman Director Gupta to Stay Free Pending Appeal
        
Judge Approves $110 Million El Paso Corp. Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUDGES (61%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); EL PASO CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012



197 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Snapshots From Doha and Elsewhere

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Skunks at the climate-themed garden party? Two skeptics put in an appearance. 

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is not attending the annual United Nations climate change summit meetingunder way here in the Qatari capital. In fact, she has not attended one since the largely unsuccessful conclave in Copenhagen three years ago, which was supposed to produce a new global agreement on climate change but instead dissolved into near chaos.
Last week, in a speech in Washington, Mrs. Clinton spoke about that meeting and told a story that aides said she had seldom, if ever, recounted in public. She recalled how she had negotiated well past midnight with top officials from around the world, only to see their efforts come to naught. She found herself outside the conference center at 2 a.m. waiting for her car with other leaders.
"We were standing there," Mrs. Clinton said, "when Nicolas Sarkozy," then France's president, "looked up into the cold Danish sky with exasperation and declared, 'After this, I want to die.' I think that's how we all felt, to some extent." 
She told the story with a laugh, but her larger point was that while countries should continue to support the United Nations process, they should also seek other ways of dealing with climate change.

So this year she started a project called the Climate and Clean Air Coalition to address so-called short-lived climate pollutants, which have an inordinately powerful impact on the climate but dissipate far more quickly than the main greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide. These fast-acting pollutants include black carbon or soot from diesel exhaust and the burning of dung or firewood for heat or cooking. Also included are methane gas and hydrofluorocarbons, largely found in refrigerants.
On Thursday in Doha, officials from countries participating in that initiative announced that six new countries had joined the group, which is under the umbrella of the United Nations Environment Program, bringing membership to 25 countries. The group says concerted action on fast-acting pollutants could slow global temperature rise by nearly one degree Fahrenheit by 2050 and reduce pollution-related deaths by as many as 2.4 million annually.
The United Nations climate negotiations, which have been going on for nearly 20 years, have produced many promises and much paperwork but relatively little action.
Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development, has worked on these issues for decades. "There is much discouragement and outright despair at the U.N. process," he said Thursday. "We need something like this coalition that reminds us all that we can solve a major part of the problem quickly and fairly simply."
* * * *
Few would compare a United Nations climate change conference to a garden party, but a pair of skeptical skunks showed up on Thursday in the persons of Senator James Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, and Christopher Monckton, the Viscount Monckton of Benchley. The two make a habit of descending on climate summits and trying to debunk both the science and the politics of global warming. Mostly they generate eye-rolling and wry blog posts.
Mr. Inhofe, the most outspoken climate change skeptic in Congress, appeared by video link to declare global warming a hoax and the United Nations talks a farce.
"It's time to put an end to these lavish, absurd global warming parties," he said.
Lord Monckton appeared in person, but not until after he had tried riding a camel and had been thrown off. His message, as it has been at several recent conferences, is that the threat of global warming is overblown and that it will cost far more to try to prevent the heating of the planet than simply to adapt to any changes climate change might bring.
 Friday, 7:26 a.m. Eastern time| Updated 
Lord Monckton was ejected from the conference late Thursday after he posed as a delegate to gain entrance to the meeting hall and took the seat of the representative from Myanmar. Before he was identified as an imposter, he was allowed to speak and said -- against most scientific evidence -- that there had been no global temperature rise since the beginning of the United Nations climate negotiations. He was quickly escorted from the room and banned from the meeting.
A United Nations spokeswoman said that Lord Monckton was registered with a nongovernmental organization, the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow, and that his posing as a delegate "was considered a clear violation of his status as a representative of that organization."
* * * *
Qatar, the host country for these talks, sits atop the largest natural gas field in the world and is a major producer and exporter of natural gas and oil. As a result, it is one of the richest countries in the world and one of the highest per-capita greenhouse gas emitters. Qatari officials are taking some small steps to try to reduce energy consumption and emissions by adopting renewable energy sources.
The emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, addressing delegates here on Tuesday, noted that the cavernous (and overcooled) new conference center in which the negotiations were being held was 12 percent solar powered. He said his sun-soaked desert country has a goal of generating 2 percent of its energy from solar panels by 2020. Qatar's proportion of electricity generated from renewable sources was 0.0 percent in 2010, according to a report from the International Renewable Energy Agency.
The 2 percent target is not much, but it's a start, said Adnan Z. Amin, director general of the renewable energy agency, which is based in nearby Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates, another Persian Gulf petro-state.
He said oil-rich countries could benefit from exporting their oil and gas resources rather than using them to subsidize cheap domestic energy. "The economics are obvious, but in any change, especially a fundamental change, the journey of 1,000 miles begins with first step," he said. "There are obvious political interests in these countries that will continue to favor oil and gas, and navigating to new energy economy is not an easy thing to do."
Fahad bin Mohammed al-Attiya, chairman of Qatar's National Food Security Program and one of the organizers of the United Nations conference here, said the 2 percent figure did not include a major project to build solar-powered water desalination plants. "I think we are doing what we can, given the circumstances," Mr. al-Attiya said.
He said the country was building a large polysilicon factory and hoped to develop a homegrown solar panel manufacturing capability. But he said adoption of solar power throughout the Middle East was hampered by high humidity and dust from blowing sand.
"It's not the matter of will," he said. "It's a matter of getting these projects in pipeline and adapting these technologies. We're going from nothing to megascale projects in solar."

        
U.N. Unveils Tool for Tracking Progress of Climate Talks
        
As Ever, Money Worries Pervade Climate Talks
        
On Climate Change, a Gloat and a Warning
        
A Challenge to Europe's Airline Emissions Curbs
        
The Amazon Dieback Scenario

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (79%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (73%); EMISSIONS (70%); AIR POLLUTANTS (70%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); METHANE (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (64%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (62%) Climate and Clean Air Coalition; climate change; COP-18; Emir of Qatar; Hillary Clinton; Lord Monckton; solar power; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Inhofe, James M; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Thani, Hamad bin Khalifa al-; Zaelke, Durwood; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; International Relations; Speeches and Statements; United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; United Nations; Doha (Qatar); Politics and Policy; Solar Energy

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%) United Nations

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); JIM INHOFE (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (85%) Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Inhofe, James M; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Thani, Hamad bin Khalifa al-; Zaelke, Durwood

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (88%) QATAR (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (88%); FRANCE (56%) Doha (Qatar)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012



198 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Togetherness

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 

        
With the country on the verge of a fiscal mess, House Republicans, for the most part, seem to be ready to follow the leader. Jennifer Steinhauer writes that the caucus is coalescing around Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, giving him a strengthened hand as he tries to ink a deal with Democrats and the White House to avoid year-end spending cuts and tax increases that could send the country spiraling back into a recession.
 

        
Republicans aren't the only ones making nice. President Obama is courting business leaders in hopes that their support will "help crack Republican solidarity by making clear to lawmakers that a critical constituency for their party is ready to make concessions to settle the fiscal issues," Peter Baker writes.

        
As Congress and the White House hash out a deal to avoid the "fiscal cliff," a Senate Democrat and a House Republican are flagging a stalled farm bill as a potential source of billions of dollars in savings. Ron Nixon writes that the lawmakers hope that Congress can pass a five-year farm bill that would reauthorize and revamp federal agricultural and nutritional programs as part of whatever deal there is.

        
With Congress scouring the tax code for cutbacks, charities arelobbying to preserve deductions for donations to nonprofits. Annie Lowrey writes that what's at stake is up to $300 billion a year in donations.

        
Some weapons sent to Libyan rebels from Qatar last year with the Obama administration's blessing ended up in the hands of Islamist militants who have been a destabilizing force since the fall of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, James Risen, Mark Mazzetti and Michael Schmidt report. The finding alarmed American officials and materialized their worst fears about the consequences of arming the rebels, and takes on new importance as the administration considers intervening in Syria.

        
The federal government keeps too many secrets from the public. That is the central finding in a report to be released today by a federal panel that advises the White House on classification. Scott Shane writes that the Public Interest Declassification Board has recommended a broad overhaul of the government's 70-year-old classification system.

        
States are putting together health insurance plan options ahead of a deadline to make plans available to the public. Abby Goodnough looks at how the plans to cover essential services differ from state to state, and the role that influence groups have had in shaping states' offerings.
 Happening in Washington: 

        
Economic reports expected today include weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m. and weekly mortgage rates at 10.

        
The Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing on the so-called fiscal cliff at 9:30 a.m.

        
At 9:30, the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee will take a look at the Federal Housing Administration. Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development, will testify.

        
President Obama and his family will attend the lighting ceremony for the National Christmas Tree, which starts at 4:30 p.m.

        
The Early Word: Frustrations
        
Obama Calls Rice 'Extraordinary,' as Another Republican Voices Concerns
        
The Early Word: Inflection
        
The Early Word: Cliff
        
Ryan Joins Criticism of Administration on Libya Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); LOBBYING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); NUTRITION (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) "fiscal cliff"; Libya; The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



199 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Two Senate Seats in South Carolina, but Few Democratic Prospects

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The abundance of Republican elected officials in the state precludes Democrats from having much of a "bench" -- and may prevent them from making a strong run at either Senate seat in 2014. 

 BODY:
The unexpected retirement of Senator Jim DeMint, a conservative Republican from South Carolina who will vacate his seat to become head of the the Heritage Foundation, will create an unusual circumstance in which both of the state's Senate seats are on the ballot in 2014.
A special election will be held to fill out the remaining two years of Mr. DeMint's term, which was originally set to expire after the 2016 election. In addition, South Carolina's other senator, the Republican Lindsey Graham, who was re-elected in 2008, will also be on the ballot in 2014. 
Mr. DeMint's retirement could conceivably help Mr. Graham, whose approval ratings in South Carolina are middling. Mr. Graham also draws the ire of some Republicans for being seen as too willing to compromise with Democrats, making him potentially vulnerable to a primary challenge.
If the stronger Republican candidates are drawn toward competing for Mr. DeMint's former seat instead, Mr. Graham could be spared a difficult test. On the other hand, some of the candidates whom Gov. Nikki R. Haley might appoint to fill Mr. DeMint's seat for the next two years, like Representative Tim Scott, are viewed as having bright political futures while being more reliably conservative than Mr. Graham, meaning that Mr. Graham could still be the more vulnerable target in a Republican primary.
Opportunities for Republicans to ascend to the Senate in South Carolina ought to yield competitive primaries because there is a large supply of well-qualified candidates.
All nine of South Carolina's elected executive officials, from the governor, Ms. Haley, to the agriculture commissioner, Hugh Weathers, are Republicans. In addition, six of the seven representatives that South Carolina will send to the United States House in January are Republicans; the exception is the Democrat James E. Clyburn, who represents South Carolina's majority-black Sixth Congressional District.
The abundance of Republican elected officials in South Carolina precludes Democrats from having much of a "bench" in the state -- and may prevent them from making a strong run at either Senate seat in 2014.
The statistical models that FiveThirtyEight uses to forecast Senate and gubernatorial races include, among other factors, a variable to designate a candidate's credentials, which is based on the highest office that he or she has been elected to. The more prominent the races that the candidate has won, the better he or she tends to do when running for the Senate or for governor.
We divide the offices into three tiers, which might be thought of as tantamount to professional baseball's system of major and minor leagues.
In the top tier are candidates who have already done the equivalent of ascend to the majors by having been elected to a United States Senate seat or a governorship at some point. But these candidates are hard to find unless they are already the incumbents in those races. (An exception is when a governor crosses over to run for the Senate, or vice versa.)
So in practice, parties draw more heavily from the second tier of elected officials, which provide them with their top prospects when they want to compete for a Senate or gubernatorial seat. In this group are United States representatives and statewide elected officials, like attorneys general and secretaries of state.
Because almost none of these officeholders have been Democrats in South Carolina, the party has had to draw from the third tier of candidates, which consists largely of state senators and state representatives. These candidates face a far bigger transition when trying to compete for a major elected office like United States Senate or governor, in terms of raising funds, building name recognition and developing platforms that allow them to appeal to enough voters to win statewide.
And in some cases in South Carolina, Democrats have nominated candidates who have not held elected office at all. In 2010, their candidate for the United States Senate was Alvin Greene, an Army veteran who had never run for public office and who was unemployed when he was chosen as the nominee.
It is not mere happenstance that Democrats have had trouble fielding competitive candidates for statewide elections in South Carolina. Much of it has to do with the demographics and the geography of the state.
President Obama won 44 percent of the vote in South Carolina this November, more than he did in 19 other states. However, in South Carolina, it can be exceedingly difficult for a Democrat to go from winning 44 or 46 percent of the vote to 50 percent.
This is because of a concept we call elasticity, which is related to the number of swing voters in each state who might consider voting for either party.
Some red states like Alaska are also fairly elastic, meaning they have their fair share of voters who are political independents or who have moderate or mixed political views. Democrats usually lose in these states -- but they can compete with the right candidates and under the right circumstances.
In South Carolina and some other states in the Deep South, however, there are very few swing voters. African-Americans vote for Democrats in overwhelming numbers, while the vast majority of whites are conservative and vote Republican.
This makes the outcome of elections in these states much more predictable. Democrats have a high floor for how many votes they receive, but also a low ceiling, and they almost always wind up coming up short of 50 percent.
Democrats' problems are compounded in South Carolina because of the geographical distribution of black voters, who are heavily concentrated in certain cities, counties and Congressional and legislative districts.
This year, Mr. Clyburn, the Democrat, won overwhelmingly in South Carolina's Sixth Congressional District, taking 94 percent of the vote and facing no Republican opposition. But Democrats lost the other six United States House races, and their candidates won no more than 45 percent of the vote in any of them.
This does not just make it difficult for Democrats to win elections in South Carolina. When they do, it is often in overwhelmingly Democratic districts. The candidates may have little practice in appealing to a broader constituency of voters, and they may accumulate liberal voting records that make them unacceptable to the few moderates in South Carolina.
Instead, the closest thing South Carolina has to a crossover candidate may be Mr. Scott, who won re-election this year in the First Congressional District. He is African-American -- and Republican.

        
In Connecticut, Wall Street Community May Limit Obama Victory
        
Romney Looks Strong in South Carolina and Beyond
        
The Buyer's Remorse Primary
        
In Virginia, It's Tradition Versus Change
        
A Sense of Waiting for Godot for Texas Democrats

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BASEBALL (62%); STATISTICAL METHOD (50%) Jim DeMint; south carolina; DeMint, Jim; Elections, Senate; Democratic Party; Republican Party; South Carolina; Senate

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%) Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: JIM DEMINT (94%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (79%); JAMES CLYBURN (79%); NIKKI HALEY (58%); TIM SCOTT (58%) DeMint, Jim

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2012



200 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Planning His Legacy, Cisco Chief Maps an Expansion

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: John Chambers is revamping Cisco to keep up with a revolution in the technology business. 

 BODY:
SAN JOSE, Calif. - John T. Chambers has readied his last great act as the leader of Cisco Systems, fearing major changes in the technology business that could doom his company.
In an interview at Cisco headquarters this week, Mr. Chambers said that a worldwide revolution in mobile devices and sensors, connected to huge Internet computer systems, was roiling technology giants like Microsoft, I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, SAP, Oracle and Cisco.
"Two or three of those will not be in that list five years from now," said Mr. Chambers, who at 63 plans to retire in the next two to four years. "Transitions are happening at a faster pace than ever before." 
On Friday, Mr. Chambers will announce plans to take Cisco from simply making the boxes through which most of the Internet's traffic zips, to being a company that designs and sells software and services for a world of pervasive information technology.
Cisco, the chairman and chief executive says, will shift toward customers in government and large businesses, handling projects like designing and managing systems for efficient traffic and clean water across entire cities. Cisco's plan is to create networks of sensors and data analysis systems, working closely with government officials and civil engineering companies. And it will work with companies to set up efficient mining, manufacturing and distribution systems.
"It's a $4 trillion market," he said. "The days of boxes are over."
For many years Cisco was one of the fastest-growing technology companies, and it is still the largest player in the networking business. But its growth has shrunk because of the global economic slowdown and new types of competition.
Mr. Chambers, who says his latest strategy will be a legacy for the next generation of Cisco leadership, has tried to fix this in part by acquiring companies that rely on high-profit-margin software and moving into growth areas like video.
Mr. Chambers has been reorganizing Cisco, consolidating a number of divisions and buying companies to prepare for his new strategy. Parts of the plan, however, seem to have large gaps, in particular how Cisco will move from a focus on technical engineering to producing social and economic results. "We've got some of the horses," he said. "We need a lot more."
The new focus, which will be echoed in a marketing campaign that starts Monday called "Tomorrow starts here," was introduced at a meeting of Cisco's top 200 salesmen last weekend in Hawaii. Mr. Chambers and his top lieutenants worked on some of the organizational rules on his plane home, and broke the news to Cisco employees on Tuesday.
The underlying pressures behind the change, however, have been building for years. The boom in smartphones and tablets has increased the range of devices that a computer network has to manage, along with the amount and diversity of data, from two-way video to sensor data and social network updates. These devices are connected to supercomputing clouds, which collect and process enormous amounts of information at low cost.
The trend threatens large incumbent tech companies that grew up in a more predictable world. Oracle, once mainly a purveyor of databases, has moved into computer servers in response. Microsoft has invested heavily in building out its own cloud. Hewlett-Packard's ill-starred purchase of Autonomy for $11 billion in 2010, which resulted in a $8.8 billion write-down, was an effort to become a big player in data analysis.
I.B.M., which emerged from an earlier near-death experience with the help of a services strategy similar to that of Mr. Chambers, has spent $16 billion on analytics companies in the last five years.
For Cisco, which by some measures is in 80 percent of Internet systems, the threat is from start-ups using a technology called software-defined networking, or S.D.N. This makes it possible to instantly reconfigure millions of computer servers and data storage systems to handle different types of applications, so that a fast currency trading system can instantaneously be turned into a machine that serves thousands of videos.
A move into services could ease some of that pressure, because the start-ups do not have Cisco's corporate connections nor its deep range of products. What the firms do have, in abundance, is former Cisco talent.
Some of the biggest names backing and creating S.D.N. companies like Arista Networks, Big Switch Networks and Nicira are former senior executives at Cisco. In July, Nicira, which had almost no revenue, was acquired for $1.26 billion by VMware, a cloud computing giant that was a close collaborator of Cisco.
Mr. Chambers was dismissive of the shifting alliances. "We don't go into a market without a chance of a 40 percent share, and sustainable differentiation," he said. "We wouldn't get into wiring oil rigs if we didn't believe we could get 40 percent."
Mr. Chambers also said that Cisco's newest Internet switches were much faster than Arista's products, and that an internally financed S.D.N. project would beat back the competition.
Not surprisingly, the competition does not agree. "He's picking a point in time to say he's faster," said Jayshree Ullal, the chief executive of Arista. "We've diversified to be about programmable networks, and he's still thinking about basic speeds."
Mr. Chambers has in the past studied the personal biographies and decision-making habits of his competitors. Without prompting, he provided personal details about the life and choices of Ren Zhengfei, the founder and chief executive of Huawei, another Cisco competitor, and said he could do the same for many other competitors. "I've worked with Jayshree for years," he said, "I can tell you what her next two moves will be."

        
The Sale of Nicira, Cheaper Clouds and Troubled Cisco
        
Microsoft Moves Further Into the Cloud
        
Amazon Reshapes Business Computing With Cloud Service
        
Disruptions: At Box, a Fast-Moving Chief Immersed in the Cloud
        
Hurd Sells Oracle's Cloud in the Oracle Style

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); CLOUD COMPUTING (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); SMARTPHONES (72%); TABLET COMPUTERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ACQUISITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Cisco; cloud; John Chambers; Chambers, John T; Cloud Computing; Enterprise Computing; Cisco Systems Inc; Cisco Systems Inc|CSCO|NASDAQ; Data

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Cisco Systems Inc

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); HPQ (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%) Cisco Systems Inc; CSCO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (94%) Chambers, John T

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

 
