

1001 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Weary and Wary, Both Sides in Ulster Appear Skeptical 

BYLINE:  By SARAH LYALL 

DATELINE: BELFAST, Northern Ireland, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Tommy Donley has heard so often about historic agreements and major breakthroughs in this chronically war-weary city that he has all but stopped believing in them. 
 That is why he is not jumping with excitement at the latest in a long string of developments: the Irish Republican Army's announcement on Wednesday that it has begun to dismantle its arsenal of weapons. 
 Although politicians from Belfast to Washington have hailed the measure as a brave and crucial step in a peace process that was close to unraveling, Mr. Donley says they have all been down this path before, too many times. 
"It's like a big staircase and you've only taken one step and you have a long, long way to go," he said, pausing between customers at the fruit and vegetable store he runs on Shankill Road, a staunchly Protestant enclave in West Belfast. "Peace is not like switching the lights on and off -- one day you have it, the next you don't. If everyone stopped shooting and put all their guns away, you'd still get hatred, you'd still get people saying, 'You're Protestant' or 'You're Catholic.' " 
For all the caution expressed by people like Mr. Donley -- and there are many who feel the way he does -- there is no doubt that the long-promised and finally delivered move by the republican group, a mostly Catholic guerrilla force devoted to ending British control of Northern Ireland, has jump-started the sputtering peace process all over again. 
The I.R.A.'s action has also moved the process further along. It brought angry Protestants back to the power-sharing government they had earlier quit in protest. That process gained momentum on Saturday when the largest Protestant party here, the Ulster Unionists, backed the bid by their leader, David Trimble, to take back his position as leader of the government next week, The Associated Press reported. The I.R.A. action also prompted the British government to begin scaling down security measures in the province. 
As an immediate step, the government began dismantling four heavily defended lookout posts in the republican strongholds of South Armagh and County Londonderry, symbols to Northern Ireland's Catholics of the oppression they say they have suffered for years. 
It is measures of this sort that fill people like Timothy Quin, however tentatively, with hope. Mr. Quin is the president of the Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and he has an obvious stake in presenting Belfast's best face to the world. But he says the republican move is an important -- and overdue -- step forward. "There's definitely a strong welcome to what has happened," Mr. Quin said. "If we don't seem euphoric, it's because we simply hoped that this would happen." 
But in the Ardoyne neighborhood in North Belfast, the scene of hard-core sectarian hatred in the last several months, a different story emerges. It is in working-class Ardoyne that hundreds of Catholic girls have the misfortune to go to a primary school, Holy Cross, on a Protestant-controlled street. Every school day, Protestant protesters line the road and shout obscenities at Catholic parents taking their daughters to school, and Catholics shout obscenities back. Those confrontations turn violent when night falls. 
All last week, despite the grand political statements and gestures, heavily armed police officers in riot gear went as usual to the road to protect the Protestants and Catholics from each other. It was as if there was no progress toward peace at all. "I would like peace for my child's sake, but I feel a wee bit betrayed by the I.R.A.," said Margaret Hughes, a Catholic whose 5-year-old daughter, Nicole, goes to Holy Cross. "I don't think they should decommission at this point, not with what our kids are going through." 
Mrs. Hughes, who was waiting at the end of the road for the riot police to tell her it was safe to walk to school, longs to feel hopeful, but says she cannot. "I don't feel optimistic whatsoever because every time they do something, it all falls apart," she said of the politicians. "I just hope it will get better, but I don't think we'll ever be able to walk up that street freely again." 
Another Catholic mother, Jeannie Drake, said that in a province that often regards negotiation as capitulation, the Protestants had done nothing but ridicule the republicans' effort to make peace. "They're gloating, saying that we've surrendered," she said. 
Mrs. Drake was also struggling to feel optimistic. "Let's hope that the political thing will move forward," she said, "that we can turn this around." But she remembered an earlier historic breakthrough, the peace agreement of 1998, which laid the groundwork for peace and which has not, in her mind, borne out its promise. "I had lots of hope for the future then," she said. "But it's like one step forward, two steps back." 
Things were no different on the other side of the police lines, where the Protestants -- men, women and children -- were gathering angrily as the girls walked to school. One by one, they told stories about Catholic violence in the neighborhood, saying that some of the people walking to school were not simply parents, but republican terrorists. One by one, they derided the republican effort to dismantle its arsenal, a process known as decommissioning, as an empty -- and unverifiable -- gesture. 
"Decommissioning is a red herring," said Stephen Orr, an unemployed photographer. "It's nonsense. If you have two guns and you put one back, you still have one left."
Another man wagged an angry finger to emphasize his expletive-laced point. "They had 30 years to do this," he said. "Who's seen the arms they have supposedly decommissioned? Nobody's seen them. Nobody's seen a gun handed in. How do we believe them when we've been being lied to by our politicians for 30 years?" 
Stuart McCartney, a spokesman for a Protestant group known as the Concerned Residents of Upper Ardoyne, said it was hard to get excited when new developments seemed so often to go nowhere. And, like everyone does on either side of this sectarian divide, he said it was up to the other side to act first. Just putting some arms out of use, he said, was a laughably lightweight gesture. 
"The whole world is raving about loads of weapons being destroyed, but the whole world is being naive," he said. "The way the I.R.A. has done this is like saying, 'I owe you $:200 and here's a tenner.' "
"Here you have Tony Blair saying -- everyone saying -- 'This is fantastic, this is brilliant, whoop-de-doo,' " he added. "But what I want to know is, where's my other $:190?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Catholic student at Holy Cross Girls Primary School in the Ardoyne, a Belfast neighborhood, gives a British soldier a piece of candy. The British Army has been viewed as occupiers by the republican community.; A day after the Irish Republican Army began giving up their arms, some Protestants in Belfast made their feelings known with a bit of mockery. (Photographs by Martin McCullough for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (88%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RELIGION (68%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (68%) 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (91%) IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (95%) NORTHERN IRELAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) NORTHERN IRELAND; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1002 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE POLICE; 
Focus on Terror Creates Burden For the Police

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
The recent terrorist attacks are placing an intense burden on police departments around the country as officers juggle urgent new demands: responding to hundreds of reports of spilled powder, bolstering security in public places and even leaving their departments to serve in the military reserves.
 Senior police officials worry that as a result, departments will become slower in responding to crimes and may not be able to close as many cases. And with their officers redeployed indefinitely, budgets stretched to the limit, the economic picture murky and officials concerned that the crime rate could begin to rise again after a decade of decline, they say they have had to begin rethinking the very nature of policing. 
 The shifting demands, for example, may force already understaffed departments to consider jettisoning crime prevention tactics like community policing, which have been praised for contributing to the decade-long drop in crime but require considerable manpower. 
And the burden on local law enforcement will grow only heavier if the Federal Bureau of Investigation proceeds with plans to shed traditional portfolios like bank robbery and drug trafficking so that it can focus on fighting terrorism. As it is, the F.B.I. has essentially suspended all but the highest-priority investigations, federal prosecutors say.
There are no statistics yet on how the war on terror has affected local policing, but some city departments say they have already experienced direct side effects. In Philadelphia, for instance, the police commissioner, John Timoney, attributes some of September's 37 homicides to the decision to move a number of narcotics detectives back to uniform street patrols in the city center. More than half of the September killings were drug-related, Mr. Timoney said. Under normal conditions, he said, he would have expected about 25 homicides last month.
"The homicides that are most amenable to police prevention are drug-related," he said, "because there will be a shooting followed by a retaliatory shooting followed by another retaliatory shooting. So, to the extent you can get in there and stop it quickly, you may prevent future shootings of a retaliatory nature."
In Los Angeles, the police department has been overwhelmed by calls about suspected anthrax powder, each taking several officers away from other duties for hours at a time. The department received 44 such calls last Tuesday, all unfounded, and it handled 375 bomb threats and reports between Sept. 11 and Oct. 10.
"Obviously, if we're getting all these bomb threats and anthrax calls that we normally wouldn't get," Lt. Horace E. Frank, a department spokesman, said, "it's going to take us longer to get to other calls."
On the federal level, several prosecutors said it had been hard to find F.B.I. agents who could be diverted from the terrorism investigations. That has left investigations suspended and made it all but impossible to start new ones, the prosecutors said.
"I've got a couple of fraud things that were on track to be indicted in November," an assistant United States attorney in South Florida said, "and another case was to have a big search warrant executed in the fall. And everything just stopped, and we were told we'll revisit it in the new year." 
The new demands are not just taking a human toll. In Arkansas, the state police's bomb-sniffing dog, Nero, has been called to 32 bomb scares since Sept. 11, more than four times the usual number. "My gosh, they're running us ragged," Col. Don Melton, the state police commander, said. "If we had frequent flier miles for our bomb dog he'd be set for life."
Colonel Melton pointed out that his force of 650 officers provides much of the law enforcement in rural areas. "It's just a tremendous distraction as well as a drain on existing resources," he said of the constant calls about suspicious packages and powders. "There is work that's not getting done."
Hardly any city has escaped major costs, and mayors and other local leaders have begun heavy lobbying for financial help from state and federal officials. The United States Conference of Mayors projects that its 1,200 member cities will need at least $1.5 billion in the next year to maintain security at current levels.
Boston estimates that it is spending $100,000 a week on police overtime alone. Baltimore has had unanticipated costs of $2.6 million since Sept. 11, much of it for police, and city officials expect to spend $9 million by June 30, the end of the fiscal year. In Atlanta, a City Council member has proposed paying overtime at time and a half to police officers who have been on 12-hour shifts and are unable to work second jobs. The plan would cost the financially strapped city $700,000 a week.
After responding to 150 false alarms about suspicious white powder in the previous two weeks, city and county officials in Memphis decided to use a less expensive method of investigating such incidents. By using fewer officers and less expensive protective suits, which must be discarded after each use, the governments hope to reduce the cost of each response to $400 from $3,000, said Clinton Buchanan, director of the Memphis-Shelby County Emergency Management Agency.
At considerable expense, Memphis has also been stationing police officers at 28 locations considered potential terrorist targets, including its three Mississippi River bridges. Because so much remains unknown, Mr. Buchanan said, officials will wait another month or two before assessing potential long-term costs. "If smallpox comes into play," he said, "we'll be in a world of trouble."
As time goes by, law enforcement officials clearly will be left to make difficult choices that pit short-term needs against long-term strategies. The most painful may involve whether to maintain community policing and crime prevention tactics that have contributed to a 30 percent decline in the national crime rate since 1991, according to F.B.I. statistics released this week. Those techniques often call for officers to be walking beats, developing sources and attending community meetings rather than responding to emergency calls.
Chief Gil Kerlikowske of the Seattle Police Department said: "Historically, every budget cut for the last 25 years has almost always started with crime prevention, because it's difficult for anyone to evaluate the crime reduction impact of those programs. But I don't think any of us want to lose all the gains we've made."
Chuck Wexler, the director of the Police Executive Research Forum, a policy group in Washington, said police chiefs now must serve both the mayors of their cities and the president of the United States. "This much we know," he said. "It won't be good enough to forget everything we've learned about crime in the last 10 years. We're going to have to balance the neighborhood crime need and the national security need."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Timoney, Philadelphia's police commissioner, says an increase in drug-related homicides is due in part to the redeployment of officers. (Timothy M. Shaffer for The New York Times); Firefighters in Memphis put on protective suits before retrieving a suspicious letter from Mayor Jim Rout's office this month. (Associated Press)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); POLICE FORCES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CRIME PREVENTION (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ANTHRAX (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); BANK ROBBERY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ROBBERY (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1003 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report; 
Can Amtrak Cope With Heavier Traffic?

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DECIDING whether to drive, fly or take the train, travelers have always balanced price, schedule and comfort, but now most are also thinking about security. Amtrak, sizing up its situation, has found that it has some natural advantages over the airlines, some improvements it can make, and some problems it can do nothing about.
One key advantage is that it is nearly impossible to barge into an engineer's cab the way hijackers entered airplane cockpits on Sept. 11. On most Amtrak trains the cab is inaccessible from the passenger cars when the train is moving. On the few where there is a passageway, as on the new Acela Express, the railroad has instituted procedures to be certain the engineer will not open the cab to intruders. And conductors, dispatchers and engineers are in nearly continuous radio contact. 
And unlike a plane, a train with a problem on board can always stop.
But Amtrak cannot control access to its stations and trains the way airlines can control access to their aircraft.
"Except for the aviation system, every other transportation system is open," said William Schulz, a spokesman for the railroad. Scheduled passenger planes fly only from airports, and access to these can be limited; in contrast, Amtrak trains run from stations they share with commuter trains, with thousands of other passengers. And airlines can limit what passengers may carry on, forcing passengers to put potential weapons into checked baggage; Amtrak checks very few bags.
It also runs over vulnerable track. In October 1995, the Sunset Limited, going to Los Angeles from Miami, derailed in Hyder, Ariz., killing one person and injuring 100; the F.B.I. concluded that the track had been sabotaged, but has not found the culprit.
Still, the railroad has taken a variety of steps. It has posted workers to guard bridges, tunnels and switches. It has put its 325 police officers -- nearly all of whom carry guns and have arrest powers -- on 12-hour shifts, and canceled their vacations. And to be able to match ticket buyers with government lists of suspects, it has dropped a plan for conductors to sell tickets on its trains between Washington and Boston, and required customers at the station ticket windows to show a picture I.D. It has also stepped up bomb screening on the packages it carries.
Amtrak asked Congress for $515 million for a variety of other improvements, including more closed-circuit television equipment, motion detectors and fencing, 150 more police officers, and another 250 security officers, guards who work in areas not accessible to the public. 
And on Oct. 17 the Senate Commerce Committee approved a Rail Security Act that would provide $515 million for security, half of it for the Northeast corridor, and $998 million for "life safety projects" in tunnels in New York, Baltimore and Washington, including new emergency exits. It was not clear when the full Senate and the House would act.
While Amtrak officials do not want to seem to gloat, the problems for the airlines have helped the railroad in three ways.
One is an upturn in business. Ridership had been declining in late summer, as a national economic slowdown cut the amount of travel. But when the planes stopped flying, Amtrak saw an immediate bump, and even after all of those stranded at airports around the country found their way home, Amtrak's ridership stayed up. On the Northeast Corridor, from Washington through New York to Boston, which accounts for 55 percent of Amtrak's passenger revenue, ridership is up 20 to 25 percent over last year. Nationally, many long-distance trains are selling out, meaning that demand may be significantly higher than Amtrak can meet..
Amtrak's early-morning Acela trains between Washington and New York carried relatively few passengers before Sept. 11 and managers were considering shifting them to other hours; now they often sell out. 
On Friday afternoons and Sunday nights, the Northeast Direct trains between Washington and Boston, on which reservations are not taken, have people standing or sitting in the aisles. Amtrak has added what extra passenger cars it has, and is asking Congress for money to rehabilitate more.
The Twilight Shoreliner, an overnight train between Boston and Washington, is often sold out, as are many other long-distance trains. Metroliners sell out between Washington and New York, and again between New York and Boston.
A second benefit for Amtrak was an opportunity to show its best side to Congress, which still holds the purse strings. About 120 members of the House of Representatives and 40 members of the Senate rode special Acela trains from Washington nonstop to New York to visit the wreckage of the World Trade Center, and Amtrak hopes they were impressed by its fastest, quietest, most luxurious train.
The third benefit, railroad officials hope, is that the airline bailout has strengthened their argument that there is nothing wrong with using tax dollars to help pay for a national passenger rail system.
 There is a catch. Ticket revenues may be up sharply, Mr. Schulz said, but security expenses are up by at least as much. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (93%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); TICKET SALES (85%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); MOTION DETECTORS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (68%); APPROVALS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (62%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (62%) RAILROADS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1004 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
The Mouthpiece

BYLINE:  By BILL KENT 

DATELINE: CAMDEN 

 BODY:
IF Osama bin Laden were captured tomorrow and brought to America for trial, Eddie Jacobs Jr. would be glad to defend him.
 "When you're doing criminal defense work, you can't be a sissy," said Mr. Jacobs, a defense lawyer from Atlantic City who has been representing murderers and mobsters for nearly 30 years. "Sexual predators, miscreants, outlaws and sociopaths are going to be your clients." 
 Earlier this year, Mr. Jacobs put the American system of justice to work in a 17-week trial involving eight organized crime associates from South Jersey and Philadelphia -- all of whom were convicted of 32 racketeering charges. Mr. Jacobs's client, Joseph (Skinny Joey) Merlino, the reputed mob boss of Philadelphia, was convicted of racketeering but acquitted of charges that he ordered the 1996 murder of Joseph Sodano, a captain in the Bruno crime family. 
Mr. Jacobs currently has three other homicide trials on his plate -- two shootings and one vehicular homicide "that involve the kind of people that won't get any media attention, which is fine by me."
"The mob cases get more than enough," he said. "The media loves the mob."
One could also say Mr. Jacobs loves the media. The walls of his office -- a former church on Pacfic Avenue across from the Trump Taj Mahal -- are covered with courtroom sketches of Mr. Jacobs in action as well as framed enlargements of some of his newspaper clippings.
But the enlargement that draws much of the attention is a 1998 transcript provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of a conversation between Vince Fillipelli and Ronald Previte, two reputed organized crime figures from South Jersey.
"If I was him," Mr. Fillipelli said, referring to a convicted associate, "I would of grabbed Eddie Jacobs."
With that, Mr. Previte replied, "They're scared of Eddie."
Mr. Jacobs, 54 -- on this day dressed in blue jeans and a black "badda-boom, badda-bing" Soprano's T-shirt -- says his services don't come cheaply, although he he wishes he "had half the money they say I have."
Mr. Jacobs said that while his hourly rate was $300 for criminal defense work, payment for more complicated cases -- "which just about any case involving a gangster is going to be" -- is negotiated. 
"And that's based on the assumption you're going to get paid at all," Mr. Jacobs added. "If they're in jail or they're going to jail, or they just got out of jail and they have to put their lives back together, what can you do?"
As to the assumption that prosecutors are scared of him, Mr. Jacobs only smiled and said, "For that, you have to ask the other guys."
Prosecutors who have had Mr. Jacobs as a courtroom adversary were curiously closed-mouthed when asked about Mr. Jacobs. Take Atlantic County Prosecutor Jeffrey Blitz, whom Mr. Jacobs once referred to as "the Prince of Darkness," who through a spokeswoman was "disinclined to be interviewed on the subject of Eddie Jacobs."
Joel Friedman, a criminal lawyer and former United States attorney who sent several members of the Philadelphia and New Jersey mob to jail, also declined to comment. 
But Salvatore Avena, a Camden lawyer whom Mr. Jacobs represented and got cleared of criminal conspiracy charges, had nothing but praise for Mr. Jacobs.
"Without question, Eddie's one of the best, if not the best in the state," Mr. Avena said in an interview. "I'm saying this because I hired him. I have represented mobsters for most of my professional career, so I know what you go up against when you have these kinds of clients."
Mr. Jacobs "comes off as a reasonable, down-to-earth kind of guy," he said, "but he can be very convincing, even when he's being humorous."
For instance, Mr. Avena cited an off-the-cuff remark Mr. Jacobs made when cross-examining a special agent for the F.B.I.
"Eddie said, 'What's so special about you?' " Mr. Avena said. "It broke up the tension and it also served to keep the jury on his side."
But perhaps the ultimate accolade came from Jeffrey Zucker, a criminal defense lawyer in Cherry Hill who is representing Rabbi Fred J. Neulander, accused of hiring two men to murder his wife in 1994.
Mr. Zucker, who has worked with Mr. Jacobs on several cases, said that if he ever needed criminal defense representation, "I wouldn't have any hesitation hiring Eddie. I would always value having him on my side."
Mr. Jacobs, who is the son of a branch bank manager in Hasbrouck Heights, graduated from Rutgers University with a bachelor's degree in economics. When he was put on a waiting list for admission to the Rutgers School of Law in Newark, Mr. Jacobs made an appointment with the the dean of admissions and essentially talked his way in. 
"I found out later that my name had been confused with someone else who hadn't been as well qualified," he said. "I learned the lesson: people in a position of power can and will make mistakes, and that the system these people of power are in is set up in such a way that it makes it appear that all judgments are final and cannot be questioned or debated. You have to make an enormous effort to remind the powerful that they're human, too."
Mr. Jacobs had only visited Atlantic City as a youth, but he came to the city in 1970 to clerk for Superior Court Judge George B. Francis, and that is where he stayed. In 1972, Mr. Jacobs worked as a public defender and then went into private practice as a trial lawyer "because I didn't want to sit in an office all day."
"I wanted to try cases," he added."
Mr. Jacobs also sought work from other criminal defense lawyers, including Mr. Avena, whom he approached in an Atlantic City restaurant.
"Eddie's not shy," Mr. Avena said. 
Mr. Jacobs worked with Mr. Avena and a Philadelphia lawyer, Robert Simone, involving more than a dozen reputed mobsters from Philadelphia and South Jersey -- all of whom today are either dead, in prison or have been given new identities as protected federal witnesses.
Mr. Jacobs went on to defend both lawyers in separate trials on racketeering charges; Mr. Simone was convicted on three of nine charges and served a four-year prison term, while Mr. Avena was acquitted. 
Indeed, Mr. Jacobs said he considered his defense of Mr. Avena "one of the most important" of his career.
"The F.B.I. came in and deliberately violated the lawyer-client privilege when they bugged Sal's office," he said. "Then the prosecution read all these things into transcripts so they could make Sal out as a mobster. I had to show a jury that the lawyer-client privilege must remain sacred because when the government bugs a law office and then distorts what is said in confidence so they can lock someone up, they're one step away from a police state."
In fact, Mr. Jacobs said he was concerned by some of the tactics being employed by law enforcement agencies in rounding up suspected terrorists.
"A lot of these emergency measures may seem necessary right now, but, once they're made into laws, they have a way of hanging around," he said. "What's happening to these suspected terrorists right now might be happening to you and me a few years from now."
Though perhaps not a popular view in light of what 19 terrorists did on Sept. 11, Mr. Jacobs said he saw his role as a defense lawyer "to keep the prosecution honest."
Marcia Levy, a professor of criminal law at Rutgers, said: "There's a lot of truth underlying what Mr. Jacobs says. In this day and age there is an attitude that people who are arrested are guilty and that criminal lawyers are getting rich getting a guilty person off.
" From a criminal defense prospective," she added, "you know that despite the presumption of innocence, the laws really are stacked against any defendant, and that the government must be kept honest in the way it prepares and prosecutes cases because that's the only way a jury is going to get a full picture, as opposed to the part of the picture that the prosecution wants to be seen."
When he was beginning his practice, Mr. Jacobs would typically take his wife on a weeklong vacation to Europe at the end of a particularly difficult trial.
Now divorced and without children (though he does have a room for his five cockatoos and parrots), Mr. Jacobs buys a car at the end of each tough case. So far he has 16 -- mostly American-made sports cars from the 1950's and 60's, all kept at his house in Galloway Township.
He said that he spent much of his free time with Linda Field, a legal secretary, and that he had no ambition to either retire or teach law.
"I know what I can do well, and I'm comfortable with that," Mr. Jacobs said. "I want to stay at the top of my powers as long as I can. I just don't want to kill myself along the way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eddie Jacobs Jr., for 30 years the lawyer of choice for many of South Jersey's accused murderers and mobsters, buys a sports car at the completion of each tough case. (Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ACQUITTAL (73%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%) LEGAL PROFESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%) JACOBS, EDDIE; KENT, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1005 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Stents and Scalpels, As a Defensive Bet

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER 

 BODY:
FOR investors seeking shelter in a troubled economy, medical device companies may be "a good place to hide," says Glenn Reicin, health care analyst at Morgan Stanley in New York. 
 The list of companies includes those that specialize in devices for use in cardiovascular procedures -- Medtronic Inc. and the Guidant Corporation, for example. It also contains companies like the Stryker Corporation, a leading supplier of orthopedic implants and surgical instruments. And a few larger, more diversified companies have a strong presence in the field; medical devices account for roughly one-third of revenue at Johnson & Johnson, almost half of Abbott Laboratories and 65 percent at Baxter International. 
 Unlike some other health care stocks, these have not been buffeted by the government's reaction to bioterrorism. Instead, Mr. Reicin said, they can benefit from a longer-term phenomenon: the aging of baby boomers. They are reaching their 50's, and demand is increasing for knee replacements, angioplasty and other procedures. Moreover, new technology is bringing higher prices.
Winton Gibbons, an analyst at William Blair & Company in Chicago, said higher prices had bolstered earnings at Stryker. He cited improved materials that last longer in artificial knees and hips; surgeons can use them on younger patients without worrying that the implants will wear out.
Still, some analysts say the price increases of 3 to 5 percent a year that hospitals have been paying for orthopedic products will not continue, thus affecting earnings.
But even if that happens, Mr. Gibbons counters, a simple increase in the number of procedures can ensure continued earnings growth. He said he expected Stryker to keep posting 20 percent gains in earnings per share, as it has done in all but one of the last 20 years. The stock closed on Friday at $59.11, compared with a low of $44.78 on Jan. 22. It peaked at $63.20 on July 27.
Some advisers prefer companies that specialize in devices for cardiovascular procedures, particularly the drug-coated stents that are likely to hit the market next year. Stents are small, metal devices used to keep arteries open; clinical tests by Johnson & Johnson, Boston Scientific and other manufacturers indicate that the coating can limit the body's tendency to reject the stents.
Sanjiv Arora of RBC Dain Rauscher Wessels, an investment banking firm in Minneapolis, favors Guidant, a smaller stent maker. "There's not a lot of risk in this story," he said, adding that the company is undervalued because it failed to reach earnings targets earlier this year. It closed on Friday at $42.80, compared with a 2001 high of $53.50 on Jan. 4. Its low for the year was $26.90 on July 12. 
Michael Farr, president of Farr, Miller & Washington, an investment firm in Washington, likes Medtronic, a company with twice the revenue of Guidant and a stock price that has fallen further this year -- 30 percent versus 21 percent. Medtronic makes a variety of devices, from stents and pacemakers to surgical tools. 
To achieve even more diversification, some analysts say, investors can turn to Johnson & Johnson, Abbott or Baxter. All reported strong third-quarter earnings.
Mr. Reicin projects 15 percent earnings growth next year at Johnson & Johnson. The company is widely expected to be the first to market with drug-coated stents, a big potential boost for its 2002 and 2003 performance. But while Johnson & Johnson shares have beaten the market for the last six quarters, David Lothson, an analyst for UBS Warburg in New York, warned that they might be fully valued.
MR. REICIN said that there was room for growth throughout the medical device sector, but that he particularly liked Abbott. It is undervalued, he said, because it has been involved in regulatory problems recently. The company has a stake in a pharmaceuticals concern that agreed this month to settle Medicare fraud accusations for $875 million. And Abbott has had to wait for Food and Drug Administration approval of a thyroid drug and for a drug to dissolves blood clots. "One year from now, they'll be viewed the same way Johnson & Johnson is viewed," he predicted.
Mr. Reicin also favors Baxter, predicting that its earnings will grow 15 percent next year. That growth will be a high relative to the firm's historic performance, and management expects to sustain that level for several years, he said. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Ahead Of the Market"In a weak period for stocks, some hospital suppliers and medical device makers have outperformed the overall market. Some investors say the companies will benefit from the aging of the population in the United States. Graph shows BAXTER INTERNATIONAL, GUIDANT, STRYKER and ABBOTT LABORATORIES (Percentage changes relative to the change in the S.& P. 500 stock index, plotted weekly) from 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (94%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); ORTHOPEDICS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (54%); TERRORISM (54%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS 

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (85%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); STRYKER CORP (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (69%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (85%); BSX (NYSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); SYK (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); RY (TSX) (63%); RY (SWX) (63%); RY (NYSE) (63%); MS (NYSE) (58%); BAX (SWX) (57%); BAX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (85%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%) SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS; 

PERSON: KELLEHER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1006 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3103 words

HEADLINE: Once-Mighty Enron Strains Under Scrutiny 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Floyd Norris and Jeff Gerth also did reporting for this article.

 BODY:
IS time running out for Enron?
 At the beginning of this year, the Enron Corporation, the world's dominant energy trader, appeared unstoppable. The company's decade-long effort to persuade lawmakers to deregulate electricity markets had succeeded from California to New York. Its ties to the Bush administration assured that its views would be heard in Washington. Its sales, profits and stock were soaring. 
And under the leadership of Jeffrey K. Skilling, its chief executive, Enron's arrogance had grown even more quickly. 
The company, based in Houston, dripped contempt for the regulators and consumer groups that stood between it and fully deregulated markets -- for electricity, water and everything else. Everyone would win under deregulation, Enron said -- especially its shareholders, whose stock would soar as the company profited from creating new markets.
"We are on the side of angels," Mr. Skilling said in March, dismissing those who saw the company as a profiteer in California's energy crisis. "People want to have open, competitive markets. They want fair competition. It's the American way."
But less than a year later, everybody seems to have lost, especially Enron's investors. Enron's stock is plunging, and questions about its finances are mounting.
Some experts in the energy industry worry that if the crisis at the company worsens, trading in natural gas and electricity could be seriously disrupted and energy prices could grow more volatile. In a worst-case outlook, Enron could become the 2001 version of Long-Term Capital Management, the huge hedge fund whose collapse roiled financial markets during the fall of 1998. Enron's shares have fallen more than 80 percent this year, erasing $50 billion in shareholder value.
Enron closed on Friday at $15.40, down 95 cents, after hitting a 52-week low of $15.04 earlier in the day.
The future of electricity deregulation is in doubt, thanks to blackouts and soaring power prices in California earlier this year -- a crisis that ended only when that state contradicted deregulation's basic tenets by intervening deeply in the power market. Enron's efforts to become a profit-making water supplier and to create a new market in broadband communications capacity have been expensive failures. In August, Mr. Skilling quit, forcing Kenneth L. Lay, his predecessor as chief executive and still Enron's chairman, to resume day-to-day control of the company.
The company declined to make senior executives, including Mr. Lay, available for comment, and asked that questions be submitted in writing. Mr. Skilling could not be reached.
Enron's problems boiled over earlier this month, when it disclosed that its shareholders' equity, a measure of the company's value, dropped by $1.2 billion in the last quarter because of a deal disclosed only very hazily in Enron's regular financial statements. The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into the company's financial reporting, and some investors question whether Enron has overstated profits at its primary business of trading electricity and natural gas.
THE slump in the company's shares accelerated after Enron revealed the fall in its shareholders' equity. On Wednesday, the company forced out its chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, who is at the center of the controversy over Enron's confusing finances. The company, which six months ago seemed to be reaping billions of dollars from California's energy crisis, today faces a potential cash crunch.
The surprise about shareholder equity inflamed investors' smoldering concern about Enron's opaque financial statements. Now, with Wall Street analysts and bond-rating agencies demanding more information about the complex transactions that have fueled the company's profits, Enron has been reduced to issuing news releases assuring investors that it has adequate access to cash.
Enron does not appear to be in immediate danger of running out of cash. On Thursday, the company drew down a $3.3 billion credit line it had previously arranged with a group of banks led by Citigroup and J. P. Morgan Chase, which have each extended at least $400 million. But because of Enron's importance in the natural gas and electricity markets, industry experts say that any problem at the company could disrupt energy trading nationwide.
The supply of natural gas and electricity would probably not be affected even if the company failed, because Enron is mainly a trader, rather than a producer, of energy. But a crisis at the company might increase the volatility of energy prices, which have swung wildly in the last year.
Philip K. Verleger Jr., an energy-markets economist, emphasized that he thought Enron would survive this crisis. But he said it was not clear what would happen if Enron ran out of cash or if traders that use the company's EnronOnline Internet trading marketplace defaulted on their obligations.
"You suddenly have all these positions they have taken on there -- are they good? Are the firm's hedges good? What's the situation?" Mr. Verleger said. "It's got everyone scared."
In the short run, Enron's credit rating may be its biggest problem. If the company's rating falls below investment grade, Enron could be forced to issue tens of millions of shares of stock to cover loans that it has guaranteed. But creating new shares would make the shares that already exist less valuable, because those shares would no longer represent full ownership of the company.
A drop in the company's credit rating could also prompt other energy traders and producers to back away from doing business with Enron, hurting the company's sales and profits.
Enron's credit rating stands several notches above the critical point. But its bonds, which are publicly traded, have fallen so low that they are now offering interest rates of almost 10 percent, comparable with many junk bonds. Two of the three major credit-rating agencies, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Investors Service, have put Enron's bonds on review for possible downgrades.
"The issue that's in the front of everybody's mind right now is credit," said Mark Gurley, senior vice president and general manager for trading at Aquila Inc., one of the nation's largest energy traders. Aquila is based in Kansas City, Mo.
For now, Aquila and other major energy traders and producers, including Reliant Energy, the El Paso Corporation and Dynegy, are continuing to do business with Enron. And Mr. Gurley said that Enron's own trading in the electricity and natural gas markets did not suggest the sort of frenzied selling reminiscent of the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.
"They haven't done anything trading-wise that gives me any indication they are closing their books down," he said.
Still, some executives at other companies said they were looking more carefully at transactions with Enron, especially long-term contracts. They also said risk-management and credit officers were calling each other regularly to discuss the situation.
Mark Palmer, an Enron spokesman, said on Friday that no energy-trading company had stopped doing business with Enron. He declined to say whether any of the company's trading partners had suspended or altered credit terms. He said the company was continuing to see normal volumes of business.
But the crisis that Enron will face if its credit rating is downgraded is just a symptom of the bigger problem the company must confront. For years, the details of Enron's finances have been a mystery even to the Wall Street analysts whose job it is to follow the company, and to the investors who own its stock and bonds. When Enron's profits were soaring and it was creating lucrative new markets, shareholders did not seem to care about the impenetrability of its financial statements.
Now they do. Yet the company seems incapable of offering straight answers to the questions investors ask.
To others in the industry, the opaqueness of the company's financial statements parallels Enron's efforts to keep its energy-trading business lightly regulated and free of disclosure requirements. Though they do not expect Enron to crumble like Long-Term Capital Management, they say that, like the giant hedge fund, Enron uses a lot of debt, regulatory oversight is limited and outsiders have a difficult time figuring out its finances.
The most pressing concerns are a series of partnerships and trusts Enron created to move some of its assets and debt off its balance sheet. With names like Marlin and Osprey, the partnerships have at least $3.3 billion in bonds outstanding, backed by assets like a stake in Azurix, Enron's water company subsidiary. Enron has promised that if the partnerships' debts exceed the value of their assets, Enron will issue enough new shares to make up the difference.
DEALS with partnerships formed by Mr. Fastow, who was chief financial officer when they were organized, led to the $1.2 billion write-off in shareholders' equity that Enron announced last week. The company has offered only skimpy details of its transactions with those partnerships. 
Enron ended its relationships with those partnerships in the last quarter, after being criticized by shareholders. In the process, it wrote off a promissory note that it had carried on its books, reducing its shareholders' equity by $1.2 billion. But, because of complex accounting rules, the transaction was not apparent in Enron's quarterly earnings report.
The transaction disturbs investors because it suggests that Enron may have found a way to hide losses, throwing the accuracy of its financial statements into question. When Enron released third-quarter earnings on Oct. 16, it reported a loss from $1 billion in write-offs on failed investments. The earnings statement did not mention the additional $1.2 billion equity write-down. But the company said its core business had been solidly profitable, and its shares rose.
In a conference call with analysts after the announcement, Mr. Lay, Enron's chairman, also disclosed the reduction in shareholder equity. The reference was a brief one, however, and some listeners did not catch it. Those analysts were angered when they found out the next day what Enron had done, and many were confused by the accounting procedure. Enron's stock began to slide, and investors clamored for more information about the write-off. But so far, the company's efforts to clear up the situation have further unnerved investors.
Mr. Lay has met with investors during the last two weeks to try to explain the deals, but some on Wall Street say they have come away with doubts about Mr. Lay's grasp of the situation. They say that the two people at Enron who appear to have been most knowledgeable about the deals -- Mr. Skilling and Mr. Fastow -- have both left the company.
In an interview in late August, Mr. Lay said he did not know some details about the deals involving Mr. Fastow. In response to one question about them, he said, "You're getting way over my head."
Mr. Palmer of Enron disputed any suggestion that Mr. Lay did not have a grasp of the investments at issue, saying Mr. Lay was handicapped in talking about them because of the S.E.C. investigation. "There is not a whole lot we can say, or should say, about them," Mr. Palmer said. He also said the company expected to generate about $3 billion in cash through asset sales by the end of next year.
In a conference call on Tuesday, analysts pressed Mr. Lay and other top Enron executives to reveal more information about the LJM write-down and its other partnerships. Instead, they offered only vague explanations of the deal, leaving Wall Street worried that more write-offs might be coming.
David Fleischer, a Goldman, Sachs analyst and a longtime supporter of the company, was among those who came away concerned. "If Enron is unable to clarify its off-balance-sheet transactions and restore confidence in the very near term by assuring investors that no more surprises are forthcoming that would affect the balance sheet or liquidity position, then the company will likely lose access to the capital markets," he wrote in a research note after the call.
To try to reassure investors, Enron said late Thursday that EnronOnline, its Internet-based trading exchange, executed more than 8,400 trades that day, a higher-than-normal volume.
"We know we have our work cut out for us if we are to rebuild our credibility with the investment community -- and we're working on that," Mr. Lay said in a statement. "But in the meantime, the best evidence of our strength is the willingness of customers to bring their business to Enron."
But those reassurances apparently are no longer enough for Wall Street. Enron's stock tumbled almost 6 percent Friday, to its lowest levels in six years.
Now analysts are scrambling to figure out the extent of Enron's off-balance-sheet debt and to assess the risk that the company will have to issue new shares to make good on its partnership guarantees.
Carol Coale, an analyst at Prudential Securities in Houston, calculates that Enron may have close to $9 billion in off-balance-sheet debt. She said that Enron had for two years been trying to sell about $6 billion in foreign assets -- including properties in Latin America and a power plant in India embroiled in a dispute with the state government -- and she worries about those prospects for sale in light of Enron's problems and the souring economy. 
"As Enron is forced to sell assets to keep the ratings agencies off their backs, they may have to write those assets down," Ms. Coale said. On Wednesday, she downgraded her rating on Enron to "sell" from "neutral."
"The bottom line is, it's really difficult to recommend an investment when management does not disclose the facts," Ms. Coale said.
Short-sellers, who attacked Enron's accounting even before the company disclosed the write-off, say the company's problems may run even deeper than analysts fear. Enron may have used the partnerships not just to finance money-losing investments but to hide losses in its core trading business, they say.
"The company still isn't disclosing enough to know whether the core business, the trading business, is profitable," said Mark Roberts, director of research at Off Wall Street, which recommended shorting Enron's stock on May 7, when it stood at $59.43. "The issue remains: why are they doing these transactions? Our theory has been that the core operations aren't that profitable."
James Chanos, a leading short-seller who has bet that Enron's stock will fall, said, "Is Enron booking gains when it has real profits, but hiding the losses when deals go against it?" Mr. Palmer of Enron said the company stood by its reported energy-trading profits.
Even traders at other energy companies say they do not have a clear picture of Enron's positions. Enron maintains that it is in no danger of being wiped out by a sharp move in electricity or gas prices because it keeps its trading book balanced -- meaning the energy it has agreed to sell is offset, in roughly equivalent amounts, by energy it has agreed to buy.
"With these guys, they tell us -- and all you've got is their word -- that they're hedged," said Mr. Verleger, the economist.
IN fact, Enron has lobbied forcefully over the years to limit regulation and disclosure of its trading operations. Last year, the company successfully lobbied Congress to effectively ensure that its Internet-trading platform would be exempted from regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Enron and other power traders do file limited information in reports to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the agency that oversees wholesale electricity and natural gas markets. But the commission does not keep track of specific transactions and prices.
Large-scale energy trading has existed for only about a half-dozen years. Enron pioneered the business, and now dominates it, accounting for about one-quarter of all trading in the United States.
Before Congress and federal regulators opened up the market for wholesale electricity, a process that began in earnest a decade ago, the power business was a simpler affair. Utilities were given areas of monopoly service, and their rates -- and ability to deliver enough electricity -- were overseen by state regulators. But with the move to deregulate the business, independent and unregulated generators and traders have flourished, providing an ever-growing portion of the nation's power.
Beginning in the 1980's, the sale and transportation of natural gas was also deregulated, spurring Enron, which used to be primarily a gas-pipeline company, to move into the trading business.
The company's shift to trading gas and electricity accelerated in the mid-1990's, with the ascension of Mr. Skilling, who became chief executive in February, just six months before his unexpected resignation. Underscoring the change in direction, in securities filings this year Enron described its principal business as "security brokers, dealers and flotation." Before, it had said it was in the business of "wholesale-petroleum and petroleum products."
For most of its ascent, Enron reported outstanding profit figures and Wall Street accepted them with pleasure. A year ago, when it disclosed the first transactions with partnerships led by Mr. Fastow, the company's former chief financial officer, analysts who asked questions were told that the deals were routine and were being disclosed only because of Mr. Fastow's involvement.
Enron does not appear to face an immediate cash crunch. But the bank credit lines that it drew on last week to pay off its short-term debt will have to be renegotiated next spring. The controversial partnerships do not have to pay their debts until the following year -- unless Enron loses its investment-grade credit rating before that.
ENRON will also need to maintain its large trading positions, which could suffer if participants in those markets grow more nervous about Enron's credit. When Long-Term Capital was stumbling in 1998, some Wall Street rivals sold the securities they thought Long-Term owned, trying to force Long-Term to sell its positions quickly and at a loss. Something similar in energy markets might be possible. If so, Enron might find, as Long-Term did, that positions that should offset each other do not.
Enron's new chief financial officer may yet persuade investors that in fact the company's profits are real, and that its condition is better than the short-sellers believe. As questions are answered, confidence, and the share price, could rebound.
But for now, investors are skittish, and some competitors are eager to take advantage of Enron's plight.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 4, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A listing of Enron Corporation board members last Sunday with an article about the company's financial problems misstated the directors' role in dealing with them. An Enron spokesman said that he was "unaware" of any actions by the board, not they had taken none. 
The list included three outdated names and misstated the occupation of one present board member. Ken L. Harrison, Jerome J. Meyer and John A. Urquhart have left the board, and Frank Savage is no longer chairman of Alliance Capital Management International.
The chart also misstated an affiliation of another member, Herbert S. Winokur Jr. He is not a former employee of Enron.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Enron, which is building a new headquarters in Houston, grew with deregulation. But with deregulation in doubt, Enron stock has dropped. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times); Enron owns 65 percent of the power plant in Dabhol, India, but has had trouble collecting payments. (The New York Times)(pg. 13); 'We know we have our work cut out for us,' says Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chief. (WGBH/"Frontline")(pg. 1) Chart: "Enron's Board"Directors have not addressed the company's current difficulties, a spokesman said. KENNETH L. LAY: 58Chairman JOHN H. DUNCAN: 73Former chairman of the executive committee, Gulf and Western Industries ROBERT A. BELFER: 65Chairman, Belco Oil & Gas CHARLES A. LEMAISTRE: 77President emeritus, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas ROBERT K. JAEDICKE: 72Professor emeritus, Graduate School of Business, Stanford RONNIE C. CHAN: 51Chairman, Hang Lung Group WENDY L. GRAMM: 56Director, Mercatus Center, George Mason University JOHN MENDELSOHN: 64President, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas PAULO V. FERRAZ PEREIRA: 46Executive vice president, Group Bozano JOHN WAKEHAM: 68Former British Secretary of State for Energy NORMAN P. BLAKE JR.: 59Chief executive, Comdisco KEN L. HARRISON: 58Former chief executive, Portland General Electric (FORMER ENRON EMPLOYEE) JEROME J. MEYER: 63Chairman, Tektronix FRANK SAVAGE: 62Chairman, Alliance Capital Management International JOHN A. URQUHART: 72Adviser to the chairman, Enron HERBERT S. WINOKUR JR.: 57President of Winokur Holdings (FORMER ENRON EMPLOYEE)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (86%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); BONDS (73%); ETHICS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); BROADBAND (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) FINANCES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; GAS (FUEL); STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ETHICS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; SKILLING, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1007 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE JIHAD; 
Captured Terrorist Manual Suggests Hijackers Did a Lot by the Book

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER 

 BODY:
As government investigators unearth more details of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, it appears that in many matters of organization and technique the hijackers went by the book. 
 The book is "Military Studies in the Jihad Against the Tyrants," a kind of terrorist handbook that American prosecutors have suggested was used in training by Osama Bin Laden's Qaeda network. Investigators suspect that some of the hijackers trained in Al Qaeda camps, and while there is no evidence the hijackers had the handbook, much of their conduct reflects its lessons. 
 "Cell or cluster methods should be adopted by the Organization," the book instructs, and investigators say the hijackers were organized in precisely that manner. The manual tells undercover operatives to "have a general appearance that does not indicate Islamic orientation," which is how the hijackers lived in the United States. And in their final act, the terrorists tried to carry out one of the stated missions of the holy war, which is to attack "vital economic centers" of the "godless regimes." 
Authorities found the manual in May 2000 while searching the home of a suspected bin Laden operative in Manchester, England. A translation of the Arabic manual, which runs about 180 pages, was introduced as evidence earlier this year in the trial of four of Mr. bin Laden's followers accused of conspiring in the 1998 bombings of two American Embassies in Africa.
The manual outlines a variety of terrorism acts, including assassination and poisoning, but not hijackings. The manual also offers no instructions on the use of biological weapons, like anthrax, or how to send them by mail. But a chapter on poisons suggests spraying a lethal mixture on a potential victim's prayer beads, which will kill him "slowly, but relentlessly."
The handbook sets out strict and chilling requirements for participants in terror plots. "The member should have a calm personality that allows him to endure psychological traumas such as those involving bloodshed, murder, arrest, imprisonment," it says, and adds: He "has to be willing to do the work and undergo martyrdom for the purpose of achieving the goal and establishing the religion of majestic Allah on earth." BENJAMIN WEISER
Here are some excerpts:

Goals and Objectives
The confrontation that we are calling for with the apostate regimes does not know Socratic debates . . . Platonic ideals . . . nor Aristotelian diplomacy. 
But it knows the dialogue of bullets, the ideals of assassination, bombing and destruction, and the diplomacy of the cannon and machine gun.
Missions Required: The main mission for which the Military Organization is responsible is: the overthrow of the godless regimes and their replacement with an Islamic regime. Other missions consist of the following:
1. Gathering information about the enemy, the land, the installations and the neighbors.
2. Kidnapping enemy personnel, documents, secrets and arms.
3. Assassinating enemy personnel as well as foreign tourists.
4. Freeing the brothers who are captured by the enemy.
5. Spreading rumors and writing statements that instigate people against the enemy.
6. Blasting and destroying the places of amusement, immorality, and sin; not a vital target.
7. Blasting and destroying the embassies and attacking vital economic centers.
8. Blasting and destroying bridges leading into and out of the cities.

Living Among the Enemy
Counterfeit Currency and Forged Documents: Financial Security Precautions: 
1. Dividing operational funds into two parts: One part is to be invested in projects that offer financial return, and the other is to be saved and not spent except during operations.
2. Not placing operational funds all in one place.
3. Not telling the Organization members about the location of the funds.
4. Having proper protection while carrying large amounts of money.
5. Leaving the money with nonmembers and spending it as needed.
The following security precautions should be taken:
1. Keeping the passport in a safe place so it would not be seized by the security apparatus, and the brother it belongs to would have to negotiate its return (I'll give you your passport if you give me information.)
2. All documents of the undercover brother, such as identity cards and passport, should be falsified. 
3. When the undercover brother is traveling with a certain identity card or passport, he should know all pertinent information such as the name, profession and place of residence.
4. The brother who has special work status (commander, communication link . . . ) should have more than one identity card and passport. He should learn the contents of each, the nature of the indicated profession and the dialect of the residence area listed in the document.
5. The photograph of the brother in these documents should be without a beard. . . . 
6. When using an identity document in different names, no more than one such document should be carried at one time.

Operations
Cell or cluster methods should be adopted by the Organization. It should be composed of many cells whose members do not know one another, so that if a cell member is caught the other cells would not be affected, and work would proceed normally.
Facsimile and wireless: . . . 1. Duration of transmission should not exceed five minutes in order to prevent the enemy from pinpointing the device location. 
2. The device should be placed in a location with high wireless frequency, such as close to a TV station, embassies, and consulates in order to prevent the enemy from identifying its location.
Security measures that should be observed in public transportation: The brother traveling on a "special mission" should not get involved in religious issues (advocating good and denouncing evil) or day-to-day matters (seat reservation . . . ).
Member safety: This is a set of measures taken by members who perform undercover missions in order to prevent the enemies from getting to them. It is necessary for any party that adopts Jihad work and has many members to subdivide its members into three groups, each of which has its own security measures. The three groups are: 1. The overt member. 2. The covert member. 3. The commander.
Measures that should be taken by the overt member: 1. He should not be curious and inquisitive about matters that do not concern him. 
2. He should not be chatty and talkative about everything he knows and hears.
3. He should not carry on him the names and addresses of those members he knows. If he has to, he should keep them safe. . . . 
Measures that should be taken by the undercover member:
In addition to the above measures, the member should . . . 
1. Not reveal his true name to the Organization's members who are working with him. . . . 
2. Have a general appearance that does not indicate Islamic orientation (beard, toothpick, book, long shirt, small Koran).
3. Be careful not to mention the brothers' common expressions or show their behaviors (special praying appearance, "may Allah reward you," "peace be on you" while arriving and departing, etc.)
4. Avoid visiting famous Islamic places (mosques, libraries, Islamic fairs, etc.)
11. Not get involved in advocating good and denouncing evil in order not to attract attention to himself.
14. Converse on the telephone using special code so that he does not attract attention. 
18. Not park in no-parking zones and not take photographs where it is forbidden. 
Important note: married brothers should observe the following: Not talking with their wives about Jihad work.
Security plan: Prior to executing an operation, the commander should instruct his soldiers on what to say if they are captured. He should explain that more than once, in order to ensure that they have assimilated it. They should, in turn, explain it back to the commander. The commander should also sit with each of them individually and go over the agreed-upon matters that would be brought up during the interrogation. 
1. The one who conceived, planned, and executed this operation was a brother who has a record of those matters with the enemy. 
2. During the interrogation, each brother would mention a story that suits his personal status and the province of his residence. The story should be agreed upon with the commander.
3. Each brother who is subjected to interrogation and torture should state all that he agreed upon with the commander and not deviate from it. 
Coordination should be maintained with all brothers connected to the operation.
Note: The fictitious brother who the brothers say conceived, planned, trained and executed the operation should be sent away on a journey outside the country .

Qualifications
Characteristics of members that specialize in the special operations:
1. Individual's physical and combat fitness (jumping, climbing, running, etc.).
2. Good training on the weapon of assassination, assault, kidnapping, and bombing (special operations).
3. Possessing cleverness, canniness, and deception.
4. Possessing intelligence, precision, and alertness.
5. Tranquillity and calm personality (that allows coping with psychological traumas such as those of the operation of bloodshed, mass murder.)

Code of Ethics
Principle of Muslims spying on their enemies -- Spying on the enemy is permitted and it may even be a duty in the case of war between Moslems and others. Winning the battle is dependent on knowing the enemy's secrets, movements and plans. . . . 
An important question: How can a Muslim spy live among enemies if he maintains his Islamic characteristics? How can he perform his duties to Allah and not want to appear Muslim? . . . 
If a Muslim is in a combat or godless area, he is not obligated to have a different appearance from those around him. . . . Resembling the polytheist in religious appearance is a kind of "necessity permits the forbidden," even though they (forbidden acts) are basically prohibited. . . . It is noted, however, that it is forbidden to do the unlawful, such as drinking wine or fornicating. There is nothing that permits those.
Guidelines for beating and killing hostages -- religious scholars have permitted beating. . . . It is permitted to strike the nonbeliever who has no covenant until he reveals the news, information, and secrets of his people.
The religious scholars have also permitted the killing of a hostage if he insists on withholding information from Moslems.
Interrogation and investigation: Every word that the brother utters in the prosecution center makes a negative impact on him, on his colleagues, and later, on the judgment and major decisions.
The brother may have to confess under pressure of torture in the interrogation center. Once in the prosecution center, however, he should say that he was tortured, deny all his prior confessions, and ask that the interrogation be repeated.
Prisons and Detention Centers: If an indictment is issued and the trial begins, the brother has to pay attention to the following: Complain to the court of mistreatment while in prison. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HIJACKING (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); ANTHRAX (77%); LITERATURE (72%); POISONINGS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); MURDER (57%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) AL-QAEDA (TERRORIST ORGN) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: MILITARY STUDIES IN THE JIHAD AGAINST THE TYRANTS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1008 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Bridgeport Journal; 
A Homecoming for The Greatest Show on Earth

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Recent history has not always been kind to this struggling waterfront city, whose City Hall has slipped under the cloud of a federal corruption investigation. But for the last several days, Bridgeport has been basking in a gift from its more distant past: the circus founded by its most famous citizen, P. T. Barnum.
 For the first time in 45 years, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus opened in Bridgeport on Wednesday night for a five-day run that ends Sunday with 1 and 5 p.m. performances. 
 The return of "The Greatest Show on Earth," a name coined by Barnum himself, was made possible by the opening of the Arena at Harbor Yard, a 10,000-seat center that opened two weeks ago. Lack of a suitable indoor arena had kept the circus from playing in Bridgeport ever since it stopped using traditional big-top tents in 1956, the last time the Ringling Brothers circus played here. 
"This place is wonderful -- something that Bridgeport really needs," said Betsy Dyer, a seven-year resident who took in the show on Thursday night with her 12-year-old granddaughter, Alyssa. "It's great for the city's morale. And it means we don't have to go to New Haven, Hartford and New York anymore to see the circus and some other events which they're going to have here."
Jerome and Eva Pace, who have lived in Bridgeport all of their 80-plus years, agreed that the new arena, along with an adjacent baseball stadium that opened three years ago, have helped infuse a new vitality into their hometown.
"A lot of people thought that these things could never happen in Bridgeport," Mr. Pace said as they waited for the performance on Thursday to begin. "And this place is beautiful."
Because of its proximity to a convergence of main highways, the arena is expected to draw heavily from nearby communities. And interviews with circusgoers indicated that was already happening.
"The arena is not only great for Bridgeport, but for surrounding towns as well, since our fates are intertwined," said Bill Dunn, the town treasurer of Trumbull, which is to Bridgeport's north.
The show's opening on Wednesday night drew a capacity crowd of 10,000, the biggest gathering in memory at any event in the city.
Kenneth Feld, the owner of the circus, said he could sense that, "for the performers, it was special performing in the city where, in effect, our show was started." 
The crowds were near capacity on the following nights as well. 
The circus could hardly have come to Bridgeport at a better time. Once a thriving industrial center, the city fell on hard economic and social times starting in the 1970's, when many of its factories moved to the South, housing deteriorated and crime escalated. And last summer, just as the city appeared to be staging a comeback with the help of the ballpark and the arena, eight aides and associates of Mayor Joseph P. Ganim pleaded guilty to federal bribery charges involving kickbacks from developers, some of which involved contracts for the stadium and the arena.
Just last week, two real estate developers -- a father and son -- were indicted and pleaded guilty to bribing associates of the mayor to get city contracts. And Mayor Ganim has said the three-year corruption investigation appears to be aimed at him.
"The circus coming to town gives Bridgeport a lift when it needs it," said Ray Ekwall, of nearby Stratford. "This city has been through some hard times, and the ballpark and the arena can help Bridgeport's image."
Barnum helped burnish that image when he launched the progenitor of the present Ringing Brothers show in 1870. For many years afterward, Bridgeport was the winter quarters of Barnum's circus, which later merged with a show owned by James A. Bailey to become Barnum & Bailey. That show merged with Ringling Brothers in 1919.
Barnum's memory has remained fresh in his hometown. There is a larger-than-life statue of him in Seaside Park on Long Island Sound, where the circus last played in Bridgeport. Then there are the Barnum Museum, which the flamboyant showman helped establish before he died, and a main thoroughfare, Barnum Avenue.
All of that seems only proper, because Barnum served as the city's mayor, founded Bridgeport Hospital and the Bridgeport Hydraulic Company, and helped organize the Bridgeport-Port Jefferson Steamboat Company.
Not surprisingly, city officials are enthused about the new arena, said Michael Freimuth, the city's director of economic development. The main tenant is the Bridgeport Sound Tigers of the American Hockey League, the top minor league affiliate of the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League.
"And the fact that the circus, with its link to one of our own, P. T. Barnum, is making its first appearance in the city in 45 years in the new arena is great," Mr. Freimuth said. 
Even many of the show's performers said the Bridgeport appearance was far from routine.
"It's very special to be performing in P. T. Barnum's hometown," said Jon Weiss, who, as the Human Clown 'n' Ball, is fired out of a cannon triggered by his wife, Laura. 
"After all, he paved the way for all of us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: For the first time since 1956, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus came to Bridgeport, Conn., P. T. Barnum's hometown. Circusgoers packed the new Arena at Harbor Yard. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); CITIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (73%); BASEBALL (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%) CIRCUSES 

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: RINGLING BROS AND BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS 

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (83%)

PERSON: BARNUM, PHINEAS TAYLOR (1810-91) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) BRIDGEPORT (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1009 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: The World: Russia, China and the U.S.; 
In Terror, At Last a Common Enemy for the Big Three

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE last time the Americans, Russians and Chinese were all in a coalition to defeat a common enemy, it was the spring of 1945, when Stalin belatedly joined Harry S. Truman and Chiang Kai-shek in the battle against Japan.
 It was a fragile alliance of convenience, ridden with mutual suspicion, and all three leaders knew it couldn't last. It didn't. Within a year, it was being torn apart by the strains of the cold war. And even after Communism died in Russia, the economic glue of globalization wasn't enough to unify the three. 
 So it was striking last weekend in Shanghai when George W. Bush, Vladimir V. Putin and Jiang Zemin all signed up for the war on terrorism. Each defined his country's participation differently, and they had differing levels of enthusiasm. But there they were. 
"Many of us predicted that sometime, somewhere, there could be a major act of terrorism in the United States," Ernest May of Harvard, the dean of American diplomatic historians, said last week. "But it never occurred to any of us that it might trigger a wholly different relationship among the superpowers and other governments -- and put America, Russia and China back to roughly where they were at the end of World War II."
Perhaps it won't last; triangular alliances are notoriously unstable. But on Friday, when Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser and a Russia scholar, took a few minutes away from the war to consider the question of whether this time history could play out in a very different way, her answer was optimistic.
"I think it has a good chance of lasting this time," she said. "Because I do think that the Russians in particular are trying to move toward integration into the West. And I think the Chinese, while not politically moving in that direction, recognize that the forces of globalization, and particularly the economic forces, leave them few choices but good relations with the West."
Even after the war on terrorism is over, she said, "I think there will be many more pillars of potential common interest than you had in 1945."
No one is predicting the death of triangular diplomacy. With China's power rising, America's holding roughly steady and Russia still trying to figure out how important it remains on the world stage, it's hard to imagine an absence of rivalry.
Nonetheless, the first reality of this odd moment is that all three are more threatened by instability than they are by each other. There is the new threat of terrorists like Osama bin Laden who act outside the structure of any state, the old threat of regional chaos in Afghanistan, and concern about the potential for radical Islamic uprisings in Pakistan or Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Putin and Mr. Jiang seem acutely aware that they have already been subject to terrorism (mostly of the domestic sort) and that their countries are natural targets in the years to come. Each is also battling radical separatist groups -- a serious one in Chechnya (with Al Qaeda ties) and a chronic, annoying Islamic rebel movement in western China.
So Mr. Bush's war on terrorism with a global reach provides them with convenient cover for cooperation.
The second reality is that political, military and economic change is moving faster than the leaders in each capital can respond. The Bush administration came to office deeply suspicious of both the United Nations and "nation building," and now it is talking about turning Afghanistan into a United Nations protectorate. This evokes Franklin D. Roosevelt's plan for Korea in 1945, when a desperately poor Korean peninsula was supposed to become a United Nations protectorate under American, British, Russian and Chinese oversight. (It never worked, of course.)
Today, American forces are suddenly operating out of former Soviet territory, sometimes with Russian help. At the C.I.A., there is actually some Chinese intelligence floating around about Muslim extremists near China's short but busy border with Afghanistan. "It's not terribly useful," one administration official said about the information China is sharing, "but that's not the point. It's here."
And missing from the three-way relationship is the explosive mix that blew everything up in 1946: the dynamite of ideology and the lighted fuse of territorial ambition.
Of course, there is always a temptation for the three powers to play one against another. That will only intensify as Presidents Bush and Putin race to cut a deal on missile defenses in the next few weeks, and as China enters the World Trade Organization, an accomplishment the Russians are desperate to match.
An American-Russian accord on missiles could be particularly tricky; a deal that satisfies Russia, with its vast nuclear arsenal, could leave China, with its few long-range missiles, feeling vulnerable.
Still, the ideological war is clearly over. Mr. Putin was drifting west before the World Trade Center fell, and the rush of events since Sept. 11 has pushed him in that direction even faster. And though China is still a Communist country, you would never have known it wandering the capitalist bastion of Shanghai last week. There wasn't a hint of ideological diatribe from the Chinese hosts, just deal-making. 
Not only is territorial tension in abeyance, it almost seems reversed. The Russians have been to Afghanistan and have no desire to return. The Chinese are hardly looking to extend their Islamic troubles with an adventure there. And President Bush has made it clear that when it comes to rebuilding Afghanistan, he prefers someone else do the heavy lifting (though it seems likely that the United States will be stuck with much of the task). Ms. Rice, only half-joking, calls this the war of "anti-territorial goals."
And then there is the element missing in 1945: this war is being fought in the era of globalization, for good and for bad.
The economic forces of the 1990's, in which the rich nations got much richer and the poor nations feared they could never compete or catch up, no doubt contributed to the conviction among Islamic radicals that there was a plot afoot to keep their people down. But it also created a stronger common interest in stability to underlie investment and trade for China and the United States -- and now Russia.
ECONOMIC globalization, of course, is no guarantee that a triumvirate of nuclear powers, which have always played two against one, will now learn new rules. And lessons from 1946 suggest some potential pitfalls.
The first is that truth is often the first casualty of wartime alliances. During World War II, the White House often portrayed Stalin as a benign authoritarian. That fell apart soon enough, but it was years before Washington also admitted the obvious about Chiang -- that he was as corrupt as he was brutal. Mr. Bush's critics see a bit of the same tendency in his warm comments about Mr. Putin, an ex-K.G.B. operative. Ms. Rice, though, says that she and her boss have absorbed history's lesson, and that they will not paper over differences.
She said that Mr. Bush talked to Mr. Jiang about Chinese religious persecution, and that Washington has kept up the pressure on Mr. Putin over Chechnya. "You should never sacrifice long-term considerations for short-term gain," she said. 
And she insisted that Mr. Bush would not fall into the trap of focusing on the day-to-day operations of the war, while losing sight of the larger forces in play. She suggested that at the end of World War II, Roosevelt and Truman were "so concentrated on winning the war tactically that some of the strategic considerations -- how far east should you meet the Soviet Union, what should you do about Poland and the elections -- took a back seat."
But it is early in the war on terrorism, and even earlier in the uneasy new comity among the three powers. There will be plenty of tension to come, plenty of mistakes to be made by all three players. After all, as Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said last week, not only is the cold war over, but "the post-cold-war is also over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Vladimir Putin of Russia, George W. Bush and Jiang Zemin of China in Shanghai at the economic summit. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); WAR ON TERROR (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HISTORY (75%); TALIBAN (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HIJACKING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (65%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) ;PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) EAST CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1010 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Reconciling the Demands of War and the Market

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
In an appearance before a Congressional committee this week, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, said he was prepared to break Bayer's patent on the anthrax-fighting drug Cipro and order the medicine from generic manufacturers if Bayer did not drop its price. 
 It was a strong-arm negotiating tactic, and it worked. Bayer agreed to slash the price it charges the government for Cipro, and the Bush administration was able to claim it had gotten a better deal for taxpayers. 
 But it was also a sign of the difficulties the administration faces in reconciling the demands of war with its pre-Sept. 11 philosophy of small government and reliance on market forces to address economic and social issues. 
Like other administrations in times of crisis, this one is under intense pressure to intervene in business decisions, prop up or bail out industries, sponsor new government programs and spend whatever it takes to keep the nation secure.
Already, President Bush has agreed to give airlines a cash payment of $5 billion plus billions more in government loan guarantees, and has offered to pay much of any claims insurers might face from future terrorist attacks.
He is using the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank -- two institutions he had previously sought to rein in and scale back -- to provide financial assistance to allies in the fight against terrorism, like Pakistan.
After working through much of this year to slow the growth of government, Mr. Bush has signed off on several big spending increases and is being pressed by Congress for more. And he seems to be losing his battle to stop Congress from making airport security workers part of the federal work force, a measure that passed the Senate 100 to 0.
White House officials said the president was in no way abandoning his basic philosophy of government, but acknowledged that priorities change when the nation is confronted with the kinds of threats it now faces.
Winning the conflict, said Claire Buchan, a spokeswoman for the White House, "requires insuring that resources are made available to meet the nation's needs and that the government acts responsibly to insure economic growth and the stability of the country's vital industries."
What that means, analysts said, is that for now Mr. Bush is being forced to put pragmatism over ideology.
"This is what happens to presidents," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, the liberal research organization. "Crises change their governments and their views. Even F.D.R. didn't come in with an agenda to reinvent the government. Events forced it on him."
The pressures on economic policy decisions are part of a broader shift that has become clearly evident in Washington over the last six weeks. 
After years in which Republicans sought to roll back the size and influence of government -- leading to a shutdown of many federal agencies during a budget showdown with President Bill Clinton in 1995 -- the two parties are more or less united now in the view that a strong federal government with expansive powers is vital for the time being.
The Senate passed a sweeping antiterrorism bill on Thursday by 98 to 1, brushing aside criticism from civil liberties groups that the legislation would grant the government overly broad powers to conduct surveillance and to detain people who might be associated with terrorism. Mr. Bush signed the measure into law on Friday.
Scholars say the expansion in the size and powers of the federal government in response to the terrorist attacks is similar to what has happened in past wars and crises.
"We are rushing very quickly to throw overboard announced positions about government assistance to private enterprise, about surveillance, about security measures of various kinds that intrude on our liberties," said Robert Higgs, the author of "Crisis and Leviathan: Critical Episodes in the Growth of American Government." 
"In that respect, this episode mirrors the great national emergencies of our past," Mr. Higgs said.
Mr. Higgs said he views the situation from the perspective of a libertarian, and his qualms about the expansion of government's role are shared by his philosophical cousins, the conservatives. 
Indeed, many conservative Republicans find themselves torn, supportive of whatever needs to be done to fight terrorism but fearful that it is much harder and more time consuming to roll back government power and spending than to increase it.
"Government does get bigger in times of war, and it never seems to shrink back to its original size," said Daniel J. Mitchell, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization. 
To liberals, the last six weeks have been validation of their argument that government should not be sneered at or portrayed, as it once was by Ronald Reagan, as the problem rather than the solution.
Markets, they say, cannot solve every problem -- witness the insurance industry's warning that it has no way to assess the risk of further terrorist attacks, and therefore no way to price the risk or a policy to cover it. 
"We now know," Mr. Litan said, "that in a crisis you need the government." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); TALIBAN (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); INSURANCE (74%); LABOR FORCE (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); AVIATION SECURITY (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); AIRPORTS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1011 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress 

 BODY:
 Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.

House

1. Antiterrorism: Vote on an antiterrorism bill that expands the government's ability to conduct electronic surveillance, allows immigrants who are suspected of terrorism to be detained for up to seven days without charges and enhances the government's ability to penetrate money-laundering banks. The bill also permits officials to share grand jury information to thwart terrorism and relaxes the conditions under which judges may authorize intelligence wiretaps. Approved 356 to 66, Oct. 24. (The Senate approved the bill Oct. 25 by a vote of 98 to 1 with all the senators in the region voting for the bill.)

2. Economy: Vote on a Republican economic recovery plan that includes a package of corporate tax cuts that would total more than $70 billion this year. The bill also includes $28 billion in tax cuts for individuals and $12 billion to help states bolster programs for people who have lost jobs. Approved 216 to 214, Oct. 24.

12Connecticut1.Larson (D)YeaNay2.Simmons (R)YeaYea3.DeLauro (D)YeaNay4.Shays (R)YeaYea5.Maloney (D)YeaNay6.Johnson (R)YeaYeaNew Jersey1.Andrews (D)YeaNay2.LoBiondo (R)YeaYea3.Saxton (R)YeaYea4.Smith (R)YeaYea5.Roukema (R)YeaYea6.Pallone (D)YeaNay7.Ferguson (R)YeaYea8.Pascrell (D)YeaNay9.Rothman (D)YeaNay10.Payne (D)NayNay11.Frelinghuysen (R)YeaYea12.Holt (D)YeaNay13.Menendez (D)YeaNayNew York1.Grucci (R)YeaYea2.Israel (D)YeaNay3.King (R)YeaYea4.McCarthy (D)YeaNay5.Ackerman (D)YeaNay6.Meeks (D)YeaNay7.Crowley (D)YeaNay8.Nadler (D)NayNay9.Weiner (D)YeaNay10.Towns (D)YeaNay11.Owens (D)NayNay12.Velazquez (D)NayNay13.Fossella (R)YeaYea14.Maloney (D)YeaNay15.Rangel (D)YeaNay16.Serrano (D)NayNay17.Engel (D)YeaNay18.Lowey (D)YeaNay19.Kelly (R)YeaYea20.Gilman (R)YeaYea21.McNulty (D)YeaNay22.Sweeney (R)YeaYea23.Boehlert (R)YeaYea24.McHugh (R)YeaYea25.Walsh (R)YeaYea26.Hinchey (D)YeaNay27.Reynolds (R)YeaYea28.Slaughter (D)YeaNay29.LaFalce (D)YeaNay30.Quinn (R)YeaNay31.Houghton (R)YeaYea 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); APPROVALS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); GRAND JURY (72%); WIRETAPPING (72%) TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TAXATION 

PERSON: NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); ED TOWNS (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1012 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: LONDON; 
Though the Praise May Be Muted at Home, Blair Shines Brightly Overseas

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 25 

 BODY:
"This is the moment to seize," Tony Blair told a Labor Party conference earlier this month. "The kaleidoscope has been shaken. The pieces are in flux. Soon they will settle again. Before they do, let us re-order this world around us." 
 Changing the world is very likely beyond the reach of a British prime minister, even one as given to visionary oratory, presidential-style pronouncements and globalization cheerleading as Mr. Blair. 
 But he has seized the moment to do what he can, enhancing his reputation as an international statesman, achieving a long-sought breakthrough in the Northern Ireland peace process, and challenging the reluctance of Britons to become more active in Europe. 
In the process he has also deepened his country's identification as America's most trusted ally. He has leveraged Britain's interest in the unequal partnership with Washington known as the "special relationship," and his performance has been celebrated in the United States, where he is sometimes compared these days to Churchill. If it has brought him more muted praise at home, the British can be sparing in their praise for prime ministers who shine more brightly off the British mainland than on it. 
"The British refuse to accept triumph," said Anthony Giddens, head of the London School of Economics, who is one of Mr. Blair's political mentors. "We used to have an empire, and we don't anymore, so ironic detachment has become the culture's response to this kind of thing." 
In his last performance on the world stage, Mr. Blair gained applause abroad for his activist role in the war in Kosovo but returned to a clamor of complaints about railway crashes, hospital waiting lists and fuel taxes. Churchill himself was rewarded for being Britain's greatest wartime prime minister by being voted out of office. 
This time the shortfall between lionization abroad and grudging appreciation at home is not as pronounced. Polls show him with approval ratings in the 80 percent range, the highest of any British prime minister. "I've been out in the country," said Anthony King, professor of government at Essex University, "and I'm finding that even those Conservatives who hated Blair with the kind of ferocity that conservatives in America hated Clinton are not just lining up behind him, they're admitting he's doing rather well." 
Mr. Blair committed himself fully to the American response to Sept. 11 even before he knew what it would be, telling a news conference at 10 Downing Street on the morning after the attacks that he considered it an attack on Britain too, and offering any help needed, including British troops. He followed that by rallying the rest of Europe, appearing on Arab television and in Arab newspapers to address Muslim doubts about United States actions and going on whistle-stop diplomacy trips, with Washington's blessings, to places like Pakistan. 
Mr. Blair's unflinching pledge and his willingness to be a shadow ambassador trusted by the United States to outline its goals to governments that don't trust Washington has gained him influence there. In particular, it was Mr. Blair who persuaded American policy makers to look beyond the replacing of the Taliban toward what kind of new government ought to take over. 
With an American administration under fire for unilateralism looking to build a coalition, and a British prime minister with an almost missionary zeal for what he calls international communitarianism knocking on the door asking how he could help, the special relationship was suddenly very handy. 
"Blair has played the special relationship better than any prime minister ever has," said James P. Rubin, a lecturer at the London School of Economics who was an assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration. 
The rules of that association are unwritten but permanent, regardless of changes in government in Washington and London. 
Britain and the United States fully share intelligence and embassy reporting from foreign capitals, a custom that has proved particularly valuable now, because the British are known to have more experienced operatives on the ground in the Arab world than the United States does. 
When Washington wanted to make public its evidence exposing Osama bin Laden's terror group but felt the release might compromise its intelligence gathering, Mr. Blair was able to fulfill the mission by disclosing what Britain knew independently. 
Cabinet members, national security council members, military chiefs and officials throughout the bureaucracy in Washington are in frequent touch with the people who hold the same jobs in London. 
Mr. Blair has gone beyond the usual expressions of faith in the alliance and loyalty to shared values, to adopt an unabashedly pro-American posture. He chastised Labor Party backbenchers this week who questioned his willingness to discuss missile defense with President Bush, saying bluntly, "We will continue to work closely with the U.S. in all these areas." And in his address to the Labor Party conference, he pointed out ways in which the United States had set an example for Britons given to trans-Atlantic condescension. 
"America has its faults, but it is a free country, a democracy, it is our ally, and some of the reaction to Sept. 11 betrays a hatred of America that shames those that feel it," he said. 
"I think of a black man, born in poverty, who became chief of their armed forces and is now secretary of state, Colin Powell, and I wonder frankly whether such a thing could have happened here. 
"I think of a country where people who do well don't have questions asked about their accent, their class, their beginnings, but have admiration for what they have done and the success they've achieved." 
Mr. Blair's critics grow apoplectic with his preachy calls on the British public to create a more just society, and a common complaint among his opponents is that he is a politician with no conviction whose principal interest is getting elected. The bent his handlers have for massaging and spinning information has also undermined his claims to sincerity. 
"There is a certain element of the rhetoric outdistancing the reality," Mr. Giddens said, "but I believe and hope that he is more than just a gung-ho politician, he's really thinking seriously about the global order." 
In his speeches, Mr. Blair dwells on the power of community and the balance between individual rights and responsibilities. His critics regularly fault these kinds of utterances for being vague and sanctimonious, but friends say these are long-held principles, first learned from a group of Australian graduate students in theology whom he met at Oxford. 
They were men exploring the socially conscious side of Christianity and developing a notion of socialism that marked a shift from the left's assumption that the state would always provide, toward an emphasis on voluntary action. The young Tony Blair was captivated by them and their thinking, his friends say. In Kosovo, and now in the antiterror coalition, he has applied that thinking to argue that Western powers have the same responsibilities abroad as they have to their own communities.
The other great influence on his thinking, it is said, is his wife, Cherie Booth, a high-profile human rights and labor lawyer who comes from an ardently socialist and Catholic background in Liverpool.
"Blair really does believe in communitarian values, he is a universalist who doesn't believe that the defense of the narrow British interest is the highest good," said Mr. King, the Essex University analyst. "Bringing peace to Northern Ireland is not a vote winner in the U.K., no more than his speeches about healing Africa, but clearly -- dare I say it -- he feels the pain of people and empathizes with them. 
"He is something of a Christian evangelist, which is one of the reasons he plays so well in the States, where you're used to that more than the British are," Mr. King continued. "Britons believe that reticence is a virtue, and now they have this spectacularly unreticent prime minister. Americans are more accepting of the orotund phrase and the moralizing from politicians."
This week the Irish Republican Army made its long-awaited first move to begin disarming, and Mr. Blair was quick to relate it to the larger world. "If you compare where we are today in Northern Ireland with where we were 10 years ago, there's been a transformation," he said. "We have got to build on that now and push it forward and then look at the Middle East and say, 'That's what happens when you do not have a peace process.' " 
Though he was returned to office this June by a landslide margin, Mr. Blair began his second term with none of the triumphalism of the first, his first pronouncement an admission that he knew the public expected him to deliver on promises to repair Britain's crumbling public services. This is an area where progress, or the absence of it, will be very visible to individual voters, and his future will be determined more by what happens to the roads and railways and hospitals in Britain than on the battle fields of Afghanistan. 
The Guardian columnist Hugo Young wrote Thursday of Mr. Blair's actions in the Middle East and Northern Ireland and how it might affect his leadership in Britain. "On both fronts, he did unfashionably what a leader should and only a leader can," Mr. Young wrote. "He did something big and right, for which he can expect not the slightest gratitude from those who have his future in their hands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair, center, in London with Muslim leaders, has been taking an active role in responding to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); ARMED FORCES (50%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (92%) BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); HOGE, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); KOSOVO (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1013 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Frustrations Intensify

THE STRATEGY -- Stung by the Taliban's stubborn determination to hang on, senior American and British officials are bracing themselves for a military campaign that promises to be more prolonged and difficult than they had hoped. A1

THE AIR RAIDS -- American warplanes carried out their heaviest attacks to date on Taliban front-line positions, with as many as a dozen B-1 and B-52 bombers blasting Taliban troops with dozens of 500-pound bombs. B7

The Investigation

INCRIMINATING CALLS -- Within hours of the terror attacks, F.B.I. agents hurriedly intercepted telephone calls in which suspected associates of Al Qaeda in the United States were overheard celebrating the attacks. In the following days, agents swept in and arrested them. A1

POLICE WORK -- Law enforcement officials across Europe said a plot to bomb the American embassy in Paris that was foiled late last month gave them a glimpse of how Osama bin Laden has operated in their midst and offered clues about how future plots might unfold. B1

BY THE BOOK -- As investigators unearth more details of the Sept. 11 attacks, it appears that in many matters of organization and technique the hijackers followed "Military Studies in the Jihad Against the Tyrants," a kind of terrorist handbook. B8

The Biological Threat

RETHINKING ANTHRAX -- Scientists and government officials are having to rethink everything they thought they knew about anthrax, and they candidly admit that much of what they thought was wrong. B1

DETECTION SYSTEMS -- The United States has spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to develop early warning detectors for biological attacks, but so far the systems are far from perfect. B2

IN WASHINGTON -- Workers from three Congressional offices where traces of anthrax were found went to Capitol Hill to begin treatment with antibiotics, and Senator Tom Daschle urged the nation to quickly expand its defenses against bioterrorism. B3

IN NEW JERSEY -- A third postal facility in central New Jersey was closed after a small amount of anthrax was discovered on a mail bin. Health officials said the bin at the Princeton Main Post Office in neighboring West Windsor tested positive. B3

ON THE OTHER SIDE -- Before he defected to America, Dr. Ken Alibek was the Soviet Union's ranking expert in turning killer germs into biological weapons. Now he lives quietly in Virginia, and is working to develop broad respiratory resistance to the full range of such weapons. B3

SAYING GOODBYE -- With uniformed postal guards standing at attention, Washington's political and Roman Catholic leaders paid their respects to the family and friends of Joseph P. Curseen Jr., the postal worker who died from anthrax on Monday. B3

The Home-Front Response

UNDER STRESS -- The terror attacks have placed an intense burden on police departments around the country, as officers juggle urgent new demands. A1

FLOW OF INFORMATION -- Government officials have been removing information from their agencies' Web sites on the Internet, touching off a debate about the balance between the public's right to know and the nation's heightened security needs. B4

THE FOOD CHAIN -- Sensing that they are vulnerable to sabotage, the nation's biggest food companies are quietly scrambling to tighten their security and are preparing to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to protect against a terrorist attack on the food system. B4

AIRPORT HELP -- In a departure from F.A.A. policy, Maryland state employees will start helping airline and federal security workers at Baltimore-Washington International Airport. B4

Seizing the Moment

FOREIGN POLICY -- An obscure intellectual, Zalmay Khalilzad, is at the center of the Bush administration's strategy in its war against the Taliban. An Afghan-American, his views mirror to a striking degree the administration's emerging policy in Central Asia. B8

THE PROPAGANDA WAR -- The Bush administration has belatedly deployed its forces for a propaganda war to win over the Arab public. But the campaign, intended to convince doubters that the American attacks on Afghanistan are justified and its Middle East policy is evenhanded, has so far proved ineffectual. B8

Voicing Dissent

THE SHEIK'S WARNING -- Two years ago, an obscure Muslim spiritual leader named Sheik Muhammad Hisham Kabbani issued a chilling admonition to Americans to beware the Muslims in their midst. Now the sheik is back in the spotlight. B5

MUSLIMS IN AMERICA -- After years of quietly watching a harsh, puritanical strain of Islam enter America, many moderate Muslims across the country are speaking out in favor of a more tolerant form of their faith. B5

THE RELATIVES -- In the week after the terror attacks, Abdullah bin Laden began calling experts for advice. This time, he feared, his half-brother Osama bin Laden might have finally ruined the family's reputation. B9

The Economic Aftermath

THE CHARITIES -- Across metropolitan New York, bereaved spouses are pursuing what some call their new full-time jobs and what others resentfully refer to as a form of professional begging: asking charitable organizations for help. A1

A BALANCING ACT -- The administration is having difficulty reconciling the demands of the war in Afghanistan with its pre-Sept. 11 philosophy of small government and reliance on market forces to address economic and social issues. B10

The Emotional Aftermath

COPING -- While officials have repeatedly urged people to go about their normal lives, mental health specialists say such advice is unrealistic. Life is not normal anymore, at least not in the way it once was. B10

The Opposition Forces

OUTSIDE KABUL -- If Northern Alliance soldiers are to launch a frontal assault, they must somehow breach front lines just north of the city. Last week, young men with hair triggers on both sides fired away at the slightest sign of the enemy. B1

THE REBELS -- After the execution of a prominent rebel commander in Afghanistan on Friday, anxiety increased about the safety of another potential post-Taliban leader, who is believed to have traveled to Afghanistan to incite an uprising among his tribesmen. B6

POINTING FINGERS -- Someone betrayed Abdul Haq. But who? This was the question of the day in Peshawar, Pakistan, the former guerrilla commander's base for an ill-fated foray into Afghanistan. B6

THE VIEW IN ENGLAND -- Tony Blair's performance in the weeks since the Sept. 11 attacks has been celebrated in the United States, while his poll numbers at home are the highest of any British prime minister. B6

Portraits of Grief B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BACTERIA (86%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); WIRETAPPING (70%); ARRESTS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); TOM DASCHLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1014 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: BOOK VALUE; 
In a Global Tide, Beware the Undertow

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN 

 BODY:
HISTORIC events like those of Sept. 11 play havoc with the book publishing industry. Suddenly, every new title seems terribly dated.
 But Diane Coyle has managed to offer a provocative and relevant message in "Paradoxes of Prosperity: Why the New Capitalism Benefits All" (Texere, $27.95), even though she completed it well before the terrorist attacks. 
 Ms. Coyle, a one-time financial journalist at The Independent of London who later received a Ph.D. at Harvard and became an economist, did not predict such attacks in the book, which was published in September. She does, however, paint a picture of a globalized, technologically advanced Western economy that, in retrospect, should have been aware of its vulnerabilities. Resentments among the billions of people in the world who live on less than $2 a day have long been simmering, Ms. Coyle asserts, partly because of the West's ability to broadcast images of affluence and self-contentment toward them. 
The primary objects of criticism in her book are the anti-globalization protesters who have sought to disrupt gatherings of international leaders in Seattle, Washington, Quebec City, Prague and Genoa. She notes that many of them are products of affluence and have therefore benefited from the very trends of cross-border economic activity, deregulated markets and rapid spread of technology that they are protesting. She mocks the anti-technology and anti-globalization protesters who use the Internet to organize themselves and who hang banners proclaiming, "World Campaign Against Globalization." 
But they might have been early warning signs, Ms. Coyle writes, that something was amiss in the capitalist Garden of Eden. 
Ms. Coyle notes that terrorists like Osama bin Laden had begun using capitalism's own tools to attack it. She mentions that he and his allies were believed to be using encrypted pornography sites at one point to exchange information in planning attacks. And in one chillingly prescient passage, she anticipates the skill of people like Mr. bin Laden in psychological warfare through the use of the Internet and modern media.
But Ms. Coyle does not defend capitalism's elites blindly. In her view, international bankers and chief executives have created their own distorted realities and cut themselves off from those who do not receive the benefits of globalization. She describes, for example, how participants at the International Monetary Fund meeting last year in Prague, nearly all of them men, strode through the city in expensive navy or gray suits and sober ties, carrying briefcases even when they were sightseeing.
"They stood out far more than the 11,000 armed police on duty ahead of the expected riots, looking like members of an alien race beamed secretly onto the surface of the earth," she writes.
SHE is equally scathing in describing the top executives at British Airways, and by proxy those at other companies, when she describes how, as a reporter, she was assigned to look at their employment contracts.
"Each had the type of luxury limousine he was entitled to spelled out there in detail, right down to the exact engine size and the number of hours the chauffeur would work," she writes. "It cast a halogen light on their real priorities."
She also expresses outrage at what she considers exorbitant levels of executive pay.
The problem is not just that a class of winners is cut off from desperately poor lands. Even in cities like New York and London where the new economy is strongest, she sees poverty existing stunningly close to wealth.
"It is a matter of crossing an invisible line on a street, no less real for the absence of barbed wire," she writes. "Step over that boundary and everything changes. There will be boarded windows, dank concrete and litter blowing along the streets. The residents of that foreign land will be much poorer and sicker, with lower life expectancies."
People with money are trying to erect higher barriers, she says. 
"Security guards in city apartment blocks, 'indoor' public spaces like patrolled shopping malls, gated communities, the famous -- or notorious -- Disney township of Celebration, are familiar features of the landscape by now," she writes, referring to the Walt Disney Company's creation of a model residential community, known as Celebration, near Disney World in Florida.
One paradox therefore, is this: If we're so rich, why do we feel so vulnerable?
Ms. Coyle moves beyond pure economics, to take into account social and political considerations. She contends that the globalized economy will depend more on social and creative networks and less on traditional command-and-control hierarchies. In her view, the exchange of ideas in a high-trust environment will spur creativity and therefore economic growth. She says the urban poor, much like the distant poor, are disenfranchised partly because they cannot plug into these "human networks."
If, in fact, the West's economic success rests on cultural intangibles, how can they be transplanted into desperately poor lands where terrorism is bred? Once the bombs stop falling, the pressure will intensify to create a measure of economic progress in these lands, which presumably will help discourage extremism. Yet trying to achieve such economic progress may prove disruptive.
"The technological advances that will deliver the next step of change in world prosperity are also at the root of extraordinary social and political tensions, in every group of countries," Ms. Coyle writes. "This is one fundamental paradox of prosperity."
What to do? This is where the argument falls short. Ms. Coyle's answer, like that of many British free-market economists before her, is to simply allow events to run their course. In her view, governments must let markets take over. In other words, this is just a painful transitional moment, and if we just wait long enough, we'll all be one happy, prosperous family -- hence her subtitle about capitalism benefiting everyone.
She does call for increases in "social capital" and improvements in the "social fabric," but she doesn't say more specifically what she means. She doesn't want governments to be responsible for such embellishments because, she asserts, governments are corrupt. Somehow she concludes that an emerging class of Internet-savvy, networked jet-setters can lead the way. That comes across as naively optimistic.
To be fair, no one, whether on the ideological left or right or somewhere in between, has ultimate answers to the quandaries she poses. So even if she doesn't have convincing answers, she has performed a commendable service by demonstrating the urgency and difficulty of the issues.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, left, joined Presidents Bush and Jacques Chirac of France at the economic summit in Genoa, Italy. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INFORMATION WARFARE (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); DEREGULATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); RIOTS (60%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%) HOLSTEIN, WILLIAM J; COYLE, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); EARTH (70%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); ITALY (55%)

TITLE: PARADOXES OF PROSPERITY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1015 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Can Democrats Still Play The Game? 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey Toobin; Jeffrey Toobin is a staff writer at The New Yorker and author of "Too Close to Call: The Thirty-Six Day Battle to Decide the 2000 Election."

 BODY:
George W. Bush's meteoric rise to the center of the national and international stage has been advanced by two events of enduring historical significance -- the still unfolding response to the attacks of Sept. 11 and, of course, the struggle to decide the winner of the 2000 election, which took place a year ago next week. The two different crises offer not only opportunities to watch Mr. Bush under pressure, but some useful, and similar, clues about the president's political adversaries -- the post-Clinton Democratic Party.
 The Democratic response on terrorism has been best symbolized by Senator Tom Daschle's embrace of the president on the night of Mr. Bush's speech about the attacks to a joint session of Congress. The Democrats' watchword has been bipartisanship, which has largely meant, in real terms, acquiescence to the Republican agenda. 
 This policy of accommodation has not been limited to subjects directly relevant to the war against terrorism. For example, after Sept. 11, Senate Democrats allowed initial funding for national missile defense to proceed, even though many of them believe more strongly than ever that spending untold billions of dollars on unproved methods of shooting down intercontinental missiles is a wasteful diversion of funds that are needed to counter more immediate, low-tech threats. Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, who had previously denounced missile defense, explained his vote by saying he did not wish to "create dissent where we need unity." Some Democrats plan to revisit the issue in the future, but they will never again have as good a chance to stop the project in its tracks. Similarly, many Democrats seem receptive to Republican calls for tax cuts -- as the war in Afghanistan and the looming recession are turning the federal surplus into a deficit.
Even before Sept. 11, the Democratic Senate was treating Mr. Bush with a deference that his predecessor never received from the Republicans. After Senator Jim Jeffords's switch from the Republican side gave the Democrats control, their very first act was an entirely voluntary gesture of good faith to their adversaries. Senator Daschle and his colleagues allowed a vote to confirm Mr. Bush's highly controversial choice of Theodore Olson as solicitor general.
In this, there was an almost perfect asymmetry. When Republicans ran the Senate, Senator Jesse Helms blocked a federal judgeship for Walter Dellinger, who served as acting solicitor general in the Clinton administration, even though he is a far less incendiary figure than Mr. Olson. Likewise, Senate Republicans prevented several Clinton nominees to senior posts in the Justice Department from even being brought up for confirmation votes. 
The Democratic gene for unreciprocated bipartisanship was also on display during the tumultuous recount in Florida. Of course, no one can say with certainty whether any one decision cost Al Gore the presidency, but his performance during the 36 days between the election and his concession looks today like a catalog of self-restraint.
From the moment the polls closed, Mr. Gore asked that Jesse Jackson and all of his supporters refrain from mounting protests; as the vice president saw it, the recount was a legal process, not a political one. The Republicans drew no such distinction and put their troops in the streets -- in Florida and outside Mr. Gore's official residence as vice president. The Republicans also recruited a phalanx of experienced politicians and officeholders, including governors like Marc Racicot, George Pataki and Christie Whitman, to serve as outraged surrogates on the ground in Florida; the Gore campaign countered with lawyers -- or silence.
This Democratic restraint carried over to the legal process as well. Mr. Gore chose not to raise several arguments that might well have erased the 537-vote margin by which he ultimately lost Florida. He never challenged hundreds, if not thousands, of ballots that were improperly cast by overseas voters, including members of the military.
In Seminole and Martin Counties, local Republican organizations had obtained thousands of absentee ballots using a procedure that apparently violated Florida law. Republican operatives used their exclusive access to county election offices to amend their voters' absentee ballot applications, but Mr. Gore never fought the inclusion of these ballots, either. In Jacksonville, thousands of black voters had their votes rejected apparently because of a confusing if not illegal ballot.
In each circumstance, Mr. Gore had statesmanlike reasons -- in addition to tactical ones -- for shying from the fight. He didn't want to disenfranchise soldiers; he wanted to stay true to the spirit of counting all the votes; there was no clear remedy for the black voters' dilemma. Unencumbered by such foolish consistency, the Bush team fought for any and every vote.
In both of these arenas -- the recount of 2000 and the politics of today -- the specter of Bill Clinton stands as the great counterexample, the all-id president followed by his all-superego successors. Partly by choice and partly by circumstance, Mr. Clinton lived in a state of perpetual political warfare -- a legacy that Mr. Gore tried to reject during both the campaign and the recount.
On policy matters, Mr. Clinton knew the value of compromise, and he stole the middle ground on any number of issues. But when it came to politics -- especially on questions of his own political survival -- he fought with an undisguised ferocity. He and his advisers created war rooms in their battles against their enemies, much as the Bush campaign did in the struggle after Election Day.
Today, many Democrats in Congress turn up their noses at the coarse and unrelenting Clinton technique. Confrontation is out; conciliation is in.
But it seems prudent to remember how the voting public rewarded the leading practitioners of these contrasting Democratic styles. One went to the White House for eight years. The other is serving four years to life on the lecture circuit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HISTORY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); JUDGES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX LAW (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CARL LEVIN (58%); AL GORE (56%); TOM DASCHLE (55%) TOOBIN, JEFFREY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1016 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-19

Missile Defense Gaining Russian Trust, Rice Says
President Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, says Russia's leaders are becoming persuaded that plans to test a missile defense system are "not actually a threat" to Moscow, the first time that an administration official has suggested that Russia is dropping its objections to the proposed tests. A1

A Quiet Raising for the Kursk
Fourteen months after the sinking of the Russian submarine Kursk, remains were brought to land with little fanfare. No national observance is planned, perhaps because many of the crew may never be found. A6

Israel Suspends Withdrawal
Israel suspended a planned withdrawal from two West Bank towns after saying Palestinian gunmen had fired on its soldiers. One Palestinian was killed, bringing the death toll to 38 in the weeklong occupation. A19

China Lets Foreigners Join Rails
Beijing said that it would allow foreigners to build railroads and invest in shipping companies, one of many initiatives that the country is taking before its entry into the World Trade Organization. A8

Bishops' Vatican Meeting Ends
A monthlong meeting of bishops at the Vatican ended with a struggle over the conference's final statement condemning the recent terrorist attacks in the United States. A14

Laws Limit Panama Journalists
More than 70 criminal cases involving journalists are pending in Panama's courts. The charges are based on press laws inherited from the military dictatorship that ended in 1989; journalists say the laws are part of an antidemocratic effort to silence and punish critics. A10

NATIONAL A20-24

The Painkiller OxyContin Is Linked to 282 Deaths
A federal review of autopsy data has found that the painkiller OxyContin is suspected of playing a role in the deaths of 282 people in the last 19 months, more than twice the number previously estimated. A20

Financial Charity Grows
Fidelity Investments of Boston now operates the nation's second-largest public charity -- a fund that ties philanthropy to financial planning. A20

$600 Million to University
The California Institute of Technology has received the largest gift to a university, $600 million from the chairman of Intel. A20

Murdoch Drops Bid for DirecTV
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation withdrew from talks to acquire the General Motors Corporation's Hughes Electronics division and its DirecTV business, the nation's No. 1 provider of satellite television service, after G.M. postponed a decision on selling the unit. A22

Defense Contract's Effects
The giant defense contract awarded last week was a winner-take-all coup for Lockheed Martin and a blow to the corporate ego of Boeing. A22

Watching Governor's Races
The two races for governor next month, in New Jersey and Virginia, appear fundamental to the Democratic Party's strategy to reassert itself on the national stage. A24

NEW YORK/REGION A29-33

Benefits of Casinos To Indians Questioned
When state leaders agreed last week to authorize six new Indian casinos in New York state, they said the move was a crucial way to combat a woozy economy and the financial impact of the terrorist attacks. But whether the casinos will benefit the Indians themselves is a much more complicated question. A29

Giuliani Backing Bloomberg
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's decision to endorse Michael R. Bloomberg for mayor provides Mr. Bloomberg with perhaps his greatest hope for victory. It also offers a measure of the potential reach of Mr. Giuliani's popularity since the attack on the World Trade Center. But the critical question remains how involved Mr. Giuliani will get in the campaign. A29

SPORTSSUNDAY S1-16

OBITUARIES A35-36

Marvin Harris
A controversial anthropologist who defied his colleagues by arguing that cultural differences do not matter much, he was 74. A36

Ernest A. Lindner
A collector and preserver of printing equipment, he was 79. A35

Chess A35
Weather A37
Cong. Vote A32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); CHARITIES (85%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (84%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); COUPS (74%); ELECTRONICS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); AUTOPSIES (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); RELIGION (66%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (65%); GOVERNORS (54%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (53%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (62%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%); FMR CORP (53%); INTEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); LMT (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); PANAMA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HOLY SEE (87%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001 



1017 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
Less Information Technology Spending Seen

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Whether or not the economy rebounds next year, the revival will not come soon enough to prevent overall investment in information technology from falling for the first time in memory, according to the latest results from the Meta Group's annual global survey of large computer users.
 The projected spending decline for next year is slight -- 2 percent in the United States, to $798 billion, from an estimated $811.7 billion this year. But this is a turnaround inconceivable to many industry executives as recently as the late 1990's, when overall spending on new hardware, software and technology services routinely pushed ahead by 20 percent or more each year. 
 Meta, in Stamford, Conn., said its report was based on financial data from more than 2,300 companies in 33 countries and more detailed operating plans from 1,200 of them. The bulk of the data was gathered in August but some of the results reflect polling as late as Sept. 26.
"It's a very volatile situation," said Dr. Howard Rubin, an executive vice president at Meta who oversees the research. Dr. Rubin said investment could fall as much as 5 percent in the United States given current economic conditions, and up to 11 percent if the recession deepens.
Many companies were still investing aggressively as this year began, creating enough momentum that overall spending is projected to end up 8 percent ahead of 2000. But 40 percent of the companies responding to the survey have cut their information technology budgets more than 20 percent this year, with staffing reductions taking the brunt of the cutbacks.
While some major outsourcing companies like I.B.M. and Electronic Data Services have been picking up large new contracts this year, the less visible side of outsourcing that keeps legions of consultants and independent contractors employed has been hurt by the budget cutbacks, according to the survey. 
On the positive side, Meta found that companies that had traditionally been among the leaders in the percentage of revenues invested in information technology reached the nadir of their spending expectations this spring. Since then, those companies have been gradually increasing their projections.
Mr. Rubin said investments in several sectors related to e-commerce are still growing despite the downturn, especially in software packages that manage data about customers. BARNABY J. FEDER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Reining In"Analysts say that companies will spend less on information technology in the United States next year. Graph tracks corporate U.S. information technology spending from 1997-2002Percentage change(Source: Meta Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: META GROUP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1018 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
A library of Web pages that warms the cockles of the wired heart and beats the Library of Congress for sheer volume.

BYLINE:  By John Schwartz 

 BODY:
WHEN I was a little boy growing up in Galveston, Tex., there was no more amazing place to me than the Rosenberg Library, a haven where a young reader could imagine spending many happy years of discovery. It seemed vast, but also personal: in front of the building, a child could clamber up the side of the seated statue of Henry Rosenberg, the library's patron, and sit in his bronze lap.
 Brewster Kahle wants to create within the Internet a library that is as vast as the infinite library of my dreams, and as personal as old Mr. Rosenberg's lap. And at the same time, he is teaching us a parable about what we used to call the new economy. 
 Mr. Kahle never has thought small.
Having become wealthy through a variety of Internet ventures over the years, Mr. Kahle, in 1996, took up collecting: Web pages -- at last count, more than 10 billion of them. His Internet Archive project takes regular snapshots of millions of pages and, until recently, stored them like photos in the attic. Last week, the 41-year-old computer scientist celebrated the archive's fifth anniversary by unveiling the Wayback Machine, a free service that makes those old pages available to anyone who can get to the World Wide Web. (It is at web.archive.org, although it has been straining under the traffic.)
Using the pages is as simple as typing an Internet address into a search box and selecting a date. And it's big. The archive computers currently hold some 100 terabytes of data -- compared with an estimated 20 terabytes of information in the entire Library of Congress. The archive grows by 10 terabytes a month.
But what is it good for? After all, if the science fiction author Theodore Sturgeon was right when he said that "90 percent of everything is crud," what is the percentage for the blather-prone pages of the Internet? "On the Web, it's probably more," Mr. Kahle admits. But even if you up Sturgeon's estimate to 99 percent, that leaves 1,000 gigabytes of solid gold -- and every user's definition of gold will be different.
People searching the Internet, Mr. Kahle said, "have very specific interests," and when they find the topic that interests them, "they want it in extreme detail, like steam locomotives in Georgia in the 1840's." The wonder of the Web, he said, is that it has information about steam locomotives in 1840.
Mr. Kahle introduced his brainchild -- named, yes, for the time machine used by the pedantic dog, Mr. Peabody, and his boy, Sherman, from the "Rocky and Bullwinkle" cartoons -- with a flourish at the Bancroft Library at the University of California at Berkeley on Wednesday. He demonstrated it with a certified stunner: he pulled up a Web page from the White House Web site from Sept. 10, 1996, with a press release about President Clinton proclaiming the prevention of hijacking and terrorist attacks in the air a priority. Mr. Kahle said he had also used the system to read Web pages created by the Heaven's Gate suicide cult and to find a manual for a computer part that had been taken off of a company's Web site in 1998.
He doesn't want to stop with Web pages. Mr. Kahle (pronounced "Kale") is inviting copyright holders for books, movies, music and more to add their creations to the mix. Ultimately, he hopes to finally deliver the kind of library that the ancients tried to create in Alexandria. "We have the technology to make that huge collection again. More than that, we have the technology to give people access from anywhere in the world."
Mr. Kahle has talked this way before -- specifically, when he kicked off one of his Internet companies, Alexa, now a subsidiary of Amazon.com. That company also tried to archive the Net. In fact, its technology was used to build the Internet Archive. But attempts to profit from the venture were unsuccessful, Mr. Kahle admitted; even Amazon has stopped putting money into it. "This year, Amazon doesn't have any spare money to do services like Alexa," he said. 
But there is a big difference between having a good idea and being able to make money on it, and the fact that you can't make something pay does not necessarily mean it is dumb. 
Building free libraries is a noble effort, Mr. Kahle says, citing the largesse of Andrew Carnegie in improving the nation's literacy through a system of libraries. "People ask, 'How are you going to profit from this?' " he said. "We're not. It's a library. It's worth it to spend millions of dollars to build a library that doesn't cost users a penny." 
People who make libraries and archives their lives are excited about the new collection. "Isn't it the coolest thing around," said Christopher A. Lee, chairman of the Electronic Records Section of the Society of American Archivists. He suggested that social historians of the future might use the archive to focus on things that today seem mundane or even inane. "A lot of social historians would say a Web site that says, 'Here's a picture of me, here's a little about my cat' tells us so many important things about how people were using the Internet at a particular point in time."
The project has spurred a kind of enthusiasm that hasn't been seen in a while in the downhearted tech world. Lawrence Lessig, a Stanford University law professor who seeks to explain the interplay of technology and society, was uncharacteristically ebullient. "My brand is pessimism," he said. "This is not something to be pessimistic about. Brewster is my hero."
Mr. Lessig not only admires the project for the knowledge it will preserve. He said he also thinks it can shift the balance in the debate over copyrights and access to intellectual property like books, music and movies. 
Holders of copyrights will eventually drag Mr. Kahle into court, Mr. Lessig predicted. So far the battle over copyright has been fought chiefly by copyright owners and their lawyers on the one side, and college professors and computer technicians on the other. Mr. Lessig says that will change if people use the Wayback Machine. "We finally have a clear and tangible example of what's at stake," he said. "Brewster is defining the public domain." Users will see "how easy and important this technology would be in keeping us sane and honest about where we've been and where we're going."
Mr. Lessig has a new book coming out on copyright this month, but he says he would have rewritten the whole thing if he had seen the Wayback Machine first.
Mr. Kahle said he is pleased that his new project is getting attention. "You probably couldn't get an article written about a library in 1999; in 1999, all of the stories were about how to sell dog food over the Net."
For myself, I can't help but think that old Mr. Rosenberg would be pleased.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1996 page from the White House Web site, found on the Wayback Machine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (62%); TRAINS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COPYRIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; KAHLE, BREWSTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1019 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
In aftermath of Sept. 11, direct mailers try to adjust and online mailers try to take advantage.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
AS the anthrax scare disrupts mail-handling procedures, companies that provide e-mail marketing and Internet billing services said last week that they had seen a surge of interest from prospective clients and from current customers looking to make even more use of online options.
 The Direct Marketing Association, whose members include junk-mail purveyors, has advised its members to send e-mail alerts to consumers to let them know when promotional material is about to arrive in their mailboxes. And based on the upswing in electronic billing, the Yankee Group, a research and consulting firm in Boston, has made an upward revision to its forecast of growth for this year. 
 The big question is whether the new interest in online mailing and billing options will fade if the anthrax crisis passes or whether a potentially fundamental technology shift has begun.
Paper mail has hardly disappeared. There has been some scaling back in the $528 billion direct-mail industry -- which is what the junk mailers prefer to call themselves. "But I don't really blame that on anthrax," said H. Robert Wientzen, chief executive of the Direct Marketing Association in New York. "I think it has more to do with the economy, and the increase in postal costs." 
Mr. Wientzen said he did not think the public was afraid of corporate mailings because so far the anthrax attacks had been carried out with hand-addressed parcels bearing no return address. Although he acknowledged the tactic by some direct marketers of sending letters with no return address in hopes of sparking the recipient's interest, Mr. Wientzen said these and most other direct-mail items were professionally printed, many with company markings.
He added that the high-speed production and distribution of direct-mail material made it unlikely that a saboteur could tamper with individual pieces en route.
Nonetheless, some direct-marketing companies say they have received worried telephone calls from at least a few customers with anthrax concerns. Lands' End, a catalog and Internet retailer that sent 269 million catalogs to customers last year, has had to quell anthrax fears among several customers a day, a spokeswoman, Beverly Holmes, said.
The primary concern apparently stems from the fact that until the anthrax outbreaks catalog printers like R. R. Donnelley & Sons and Quad/Graphics often used corn starch in the printing. Because many catalogs now in the mail were printed before the anthrax scare, customers may continue to find traces of powder in some catalogs. (A recipient of a Lands' End catalog in Denton, Tex., was being tested for anthrax late last week after finding an unusually large amount of white powder in a catalog earlier this month, the company said.)
To allay fears about direct-mail advertising, the Direct Marketing Association recently sent guidelines to its members, including one to consider sending e-mail messages to their customers to alert them to promotions that will be arriving through the United States mail, among other measures.
Those who conduct e-mail marketing campaigns on behalf of other companies say they are unsure whether the association's recommendations are behind the recent increase in business, but they do suspect the recent anthrax anxiety plays a role. William C. Park, chief executive of Digital Impact, which runs e-mail marketing campaigns for Dell Computer, Gap and others, said the trend toward e-mail marketing had already begun before the anthrax mailings, as companies searched for more cost-effective forms of advertising in a weak economy.
"But safety concerns around direct mail have led to an acceleration of the adoption," Mr. Park said. "Customers are more likely now to 'opt in' and receive e-mail," he said, referring to consumers who take the option of agreeing to receive promotional e-mailings from companies. "Businesses see that, and it's just accelerated their desire to switch."
Businesses that deal directly with consumers are reluctant to speak publicly about changes in their marketing or billing activities, for fear of either feeding the anthrax paranoia or setting themselves up as targets, analysts and executives said. And a spokesman for the dominant e-billing provider, CheckFree, would not comment on recent business activity in the wake of the anthrax attacks. 
But executives from some other companies that provide e-mail marketing services, like Responsys and Bigfoot Interactive, said they had had a surge in business in the last several weeks.
These executives also said their clients had stepped up efforts to obtain the e-mail addresses of their offline customers. In e-mail industry vernacular, this is known as "appending," or attaching the e-mail address to the rest of a customer's data profile.
Complicating such efforts, said David Finkel, chief executive of Brann Worldwide, a direct-marketing agency in Wilton, Conn., part of Havas Advertising, is the fact that companies cannot buy e-mail addresses as easily as other customer data. He says there are only 20 million to 22 million e-mail names available to direct marketers, compared with hundreds of millions of names and postal addresses.
But Mr. Finkel predicted that more consumers, to avoid paper mail, will be willing to give out their e-mail addresses. "The real win will be for marketers who'll now have two ways to reach their customers" -- online and through the regular mail -- "if they can present it in a way that shows it's in the customer's best interest, not the company's." 
Businesses that send bills on behalf of utilities, mortgage companies and others have also attracted interest in the wake of the anthrax attacks. Princeton eCom, which helps companies prepare customer bills for the Internet and accept online payments, has had a 33 percent increase in online billing volume among existing customers in the last two weeks, a company spokesman, Tom Healey, said.
One of Princeton eCom's customers is Triton PCS, which operates the SunCom cellular phone service in the Southeast. Triton began offering online billing in March, but the biggest surge in customers signing up for it has come in the last few weeks, a spokeswoman, Melissa Nichols, said. "And we haven't been marketing it aggressively," she said. "Whether customers are specifically mentioning anthrax, I don't know. But interest in electronic billing is definitely on the rise." 
Jason Briggs, a Yankee Group analyst, said enrollment in electronic-billing services had recently risen enough for him to revise the industry's growth estimates. Previously, Yankee had projected that 9.1 percent of American households would use Internet-based billing services in 2002, up from about 7 million in 2001. 
Now, Mr. Briggs predicted it would be more on the order of 9.4 percent. "And that's conservative," he said. "That'll amount to a lot of bills, a lot of consumers and a lot of revenue. The industry will, unfortunately, benefit from what's going on."
Yet Mr. Briggs cautioned that even though e-billing companies might sign up significantly more customers in the short term, some consumers would probably revert to using paper bills if anthrax concerns faded. "When people feel more secure," he said, "our old habits will start to kick back in again." 
The trick for billers will be to provide enough incentives for customers to keep using the online billing systems once they adopt them. "One of the biggest issues for billers is how to get people to turn off the paper," he said. Otherwise, billing companies could end up having to support the costs of both online and offline payment systems.
"This amounts to a short-term window of opportunity for the e-billing vendors and the billers themselves," Mr. Briggs said. "Once they get people online, it's really their game to lose."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Princeton eCom, which helps companies bill customers electronically, has had a 33 percent increase in volume in the last two weeks. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHRAX (92%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (91%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); DIRECT MARKETING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); EMAIL MARKETING (90%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (90%); SALES PROSPECTING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POSTAL RATES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) ANTHRAX; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; POSTAL SERVICE; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; ELECTRONIC MAIL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (58%); YANKEE GROUP (57%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (51%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (51%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (51%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1020 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: In Pensive Times, Comfort Magazines Find an Audience 

BYLINE:  By DAVID HANDELMAN 

 BODY:
Stuck in Atlanta on Sept. 11, Carrie Tuhy, the managing editor of the magazine Real Simple, was not able to return to New York until five days later, taking a 14-hour ride in a van. Only then was she able to refocus her attention on the November issue, which was about to close. Looking over the long-planned lineup of stories in light of the terrorist attacks, she said, "I realized they were all really appropriate."
 Almost eerily so. There was a piece by a female Zen Buddhist monk on turning bad experiences into positive life lessons; a package on women conquering fears, like fear of flying and fear of change; and a feature on buying candles. The month's page of inspiring quotations centered on the word Grace; she was even able to add one from President Bush's post-attack speech. 
 Despite the surrounding hard-news mania -- or perhaps because of it -- Real Simple "suddenly seemed terribly timely," Ms. Tuhy said.
But it is not the only publication to which readers are responding that way. A variety of others seem to be holding on -- in tough times for the economy and very tough times for magazines -- by in some way underpinning a sense of home and comfort.
Just before the attacks, Hearst's Country Living commissioned a study by Yankelovich Partners that showed Americans were already leaning toward a need to simplify and a yearning for connection, which inspired the magazine's new sales campaign, "Come Home to Comfort." Its 2001 ad pages are down only slightly. In contrast, the luxury magazine Town & Country's ad pages were down 18.7 percent in November, according to Media Industry Newsletter; Wired's pages are down 43.6 percent.
"While people certainly want to read the news," said Michael Clinton, executive vice president of Hearst, "home-and-hearth magazines will really do well in this kind of climate because people are looking for reassurance."
Real Simple's inward focus, which had been somewhat derided upon the publication's arrival in April 2000, has taken on a new immediacy and significance. Even before terrorism chased them indoors, Americans were heading inward. Now, as business, technology, travel and luxury magazines teeter, homey, self-enrichment magazines like Real Simple are trying to some make lemonade out of the economy's current lemon crop. Comparing Real Simple's mission to that of its Time Inc. sibling, Ms. Tuhy said, "Time tells you what happened. We tell you how to try to live with what's happened."
The magazine's rate base, the amount of paid circulation guaranteed to advertisers, now 700,000, is being increased to 900,000 for February, a figure it took such notable titles as Martha Stewart Living and In Style four years to achieve, and Real Simple has attained in less than two. 
American Express Publishing's Food & Wine has nearly matched last year's numbers, and, its editor in chief, Dana Cowin, said: "We're not going to give up on lifestyles. People are still going to live their lives."
"Everybody was concerned that post-Sept. 11th, everybody was going to go out and buy the newsweeklies," said Susan Ungaro, editor in chief of Gruner + Jahr's Family Circle. But her October issue, which went on sale Sept. 18, sold just as well as last October's (1.8 million newsstand copies). Since it never benefited from the technology boom, Family Circle has avoided the bust: ad pages for the January issue, for which sales just closed, were up 20.9 percent, according to the Publishers Information Bureau.
Real Simple's September issue, which was still on sale Sept. 11, proved to be the title's best-ever seller at the newsstand -- 315,000 copies -- 46 percent more than the previous September. And a direct-mail subscription campaign sent out Sept. 9, looking to bring in 58,000 subscribers, instead drew 73,000.
The magazine's advertising picture is also positive, at least viewed in context. For 2001, total ad pages were down slightly, 524 compared with 541 last year. But in the final months -- when many magazines had anywhere from 10 to 40 percent fewer ad pages -- Real Simple was flat to slightly higher. 
Ms. Tuhy said her overall mission was not going to change in light of recent events. "There are three tenets I have going forward -- comfort, community and control." she said. "But at the same time, it's still nice to know how long you should keep your Thanksgiving leftovers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some magazines that have a reassuring touch have been stable despite tough times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (88%); PAID CIRCULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (55%); RELIGION (55%); CITRUS GROVES (50%) MAGAZINES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: TIME INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: REAL SIMPLE (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) HANDELMAN, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1021 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
Invention for a jittery public: creating a haven from bioterrorism in the living room.

BYLINE:  By Teresa Riordan 

 BODY:
THE economy may be tanking, but for Walton McCarthy, business couldn't be better.
 Earlier this month, Mr. McCarthy received a patent for his "life cell," an air purifying apparatus and communications system that he contends could transform an ordinary living room into safe, self-sufficient oasis in the midst of a bioterrorist attack. 
 Mr. McCarthy said his company, Radius Engineering, located near Concord, N.H., was two months behind in production on the life cells, which sell for $4,500, and six months behind on its underground shelters, which sell for $16,000 to nearly $60,000. 
"We've got double shifts working six days a weeks," Mr. McCarthy said, noting that Radius is planning to expand production twelvefold in the coming year.
The life cell device, which is 4 feet in diameter, is basically a battery-powered filtering system that draws in air through a hose from the outside, purifies it and then pumps it into a room that has been sealed off from the rest of the house -- and the world. The device is equipped with CB radio and scanner, a 12-volt lamp and a "chemical agent detector kit," designed to help the citizen under siege determine exactly which toxic agent has been unleashed. (Add-on options include a chemical toilet and water supplies.)
"The life cell goes right in the living room -- it replaces your coffee table," Mr. McCarthy said. Although a buyer may opt to leave it in the basement while awaiting Armageddon -- it can be assembled in 30 minutes -- the 500-pound battery system might be hard to lug upstairs in a hurry.
Wouldn't a gas mask be a better bargain for the average safety-conscious American? Last week, for example, the starting bid on eBay for an "Israeli Gas Mask and Nuke Biochem Suit" was $79. 
"Gas masks don't work," Mr. McCarthy said. "People think you can wear one for a day or two. If you're trained, you might be able to keep one on for two hours. They are hot and uncomfortable and make it hard to breathe."
Mr. McCarthy, who is 49 and thus old enough to remember the "duck and cover" drills that ostensibly prepared schoolchildren for a nuclear attack during the Cold War, said he did not recall having been preoccupied with the thought of nuclear war while growing up. And his family did not have a backyard bomb shelter.
But since his graduation from Montana State University in 1974, he has become an authority on underground shelters. He is the author of two books, "Nuclear Shelterist" and "Principles of Protection: The U.S. Handbook of NBC Weapon Fundamentals and Shelter Engineering Standards." 
For Mr. McCarthy, "NBC" stands for nuclear-biological-chemical. But he said he was interviewed once for an NBC television show about survivalists called "Ancient Prophecies IV." He is now more circumspect about giving interviews. "They probably made me look like a looney tunes," he said. 
Mr. McCarthy received patent 6,296,693 for his life cell. But he was selling underground disaster shelters long before it occurred to him to turn a living room into a chemically and biologically secure fortress. The standard Radius underground shelter, has a fiberglass, egg-shaped shell. Meant to accommodate six people, it comes with a toilet, a shower, food storage, an air filtration system, and three weeks' worth of battery power. 
"That's our Ford Escort model," Mr. McCarthy said. The most expensive version listed on Radius's Web site (www.radius-defense.com) is a military model, which costs $57,000. It provides life support for up to two years, is designed to avoid detection by radar or thermal or magnetic sensors, and is meant to withstand "gunfire and hand grenades." 
Mr. McCarthy said some potential customers expected the shelter to be like a posh condominium. But the top-of-the-line model is only as big as a single-car garage. "People come into this wondering where the color TV set is," he said, sighing. 
Who are the typical buyers? Rather than the stereotypical "militia-type people, shoot 'em types of guys," Mr. McCarthy said, his customers are more likely to be safety-conscious people -- like mothers who buy organic produce and make their children wear bike helmets. "We sell it to the type of people who wear seatbelts and don't smoke," he said.
But in 1996, according to a document from the Department of Commerce, the United States revoked Mr. McCarthy's export privileges for 10 years for "willfully, knowingly and unlawfully dealing and attempting to deal in property intended for exportation to Iraq, specifically an underground shelter known as an "S30 Remote Tactical Base.' "
Mr. McCarthy said that he never actually shipped any shelters to Iraq but that doing so would present no moral quandary for him. "I think of it as a humanitarian product," he said. "Do children in Iraq deserve to be protected? It's the same thing if someone from the Ku Klux Klan or some supremacist group calls me, as long as they are going to use it lawfully. I despise all of the hate groups, but I can't play God. I can't say they don't deserve to live." 
Personal safety seems a preoccupation of many inventors. Dozens of patents have been issued recently for inventions offering protection against more conventional threats. 
Dorene Jean Munoz, of Racine, Wis., received a patent for "footwear having concealed storage cavity for personal items." It is essentially a shoe with a hollow heel that screws into the sole. "I thought of the idea when I went to a formal because it was difficult to dance with a purse swinging around," Ms. Munoz said, who added that she did not want to leave her purse at a table for fear it might be stolen.
The heel can hold keys, lipstick, money and medications. Ms. Munoz hopes to license her patent, 6,289,612. 
Joe Thornblad, of St. Peter, Minn., has patented a wristwatch that serves as a smoke detector and a kidnapper alarm. The smoke detector sets off an alarm inside the watch; to activate the kidnapper alarm, a child would push a button that silently alerts the police of his location. Mr. Thornblad has not yet built a prototype, but said he hoped to license patent 6,285,289.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walton McCarthy stands next to one of his underground shelters, for which he has a six-month backlog. They sell for $16,000 to $60,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); PATENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); COLD WAR (67%); CHILDREN (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); WRITERS (60%) TERRORISM; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIR RAID SHELTERS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: RADIUS ENGINEERING 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, WALTON; RIORDAN, TERESA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (72%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1022 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Hidden in Brooklyn, A Bit of Black History; 
Freedmen's Homes Seen as Attraction

BYLINE:  By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN

 BODY:
For 33 years, Joan Maynard has dreamed the same dream, the one where crowds come to see the four little clapboard cottages tucked behind a chain-link fence on a blighted block in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. 
 The houses are all that remain of Weeksville, one of the nation's earliest communities of freed slaves. And Ms. Maynard, 73, has spent nearly half of her life tending to the Hunterfly Road Historic Houses, as they are officially known. She imagines them as a flourishing museum, a link to a bygone era and a bridge of opportunity for a neighborhood dominated by the Kingsborough Houses, a public housing project. "The Weeksville houses were a source of hope to the people who once lived here and they can be hope for the people who live in this community now." 
 It is a dream not far from reality these days. Through nearly $10 million in grants, the bulk of them from the Brooklyn borough president's office and from companies like Goldman Sachs, the houses will soon be fully restored and turned into a museum and education center. 
Only one building is currently open to the public -- a so-called interpretive center, a place to view some of the early 19th-century artifacts donated and discovered by the society. The few on display and not in boxes -- an old butter churn, a stone ax sharpener and a pair of slave shackles -- are in need of restoration. 
"Everyone should know what happened here," said Ms. Maynard, executive director emeritus of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville, the group that owns the buildings at 1698 Bergen Street. "These houses can't speak for themselves," she said recently while strolling the grounds, where sweeping trees and scampering squirrels are subtle reminders of the property's pastoral heritage. "Their story deserves to be told in a major educational setting. "
So along with the restoration, scheduled to begin in the spring, the society is also building an education center to introduce neighborhood children to the story of Weeksville using media, art, dance and computer technology. 
"Urban renewal basically destroyed places like Weeksville," said Jim Hadley, of Wank Adams Slavin Associates, an architectural preservation firm. The firm is handling the restoration, including furnishing the homes with gas lamps, wood-burning stoves, outhouses and a two-story laundry pole in the backyard. "But just by a stroke of luck we have a chance to now give these houses back to the community as they once existed." 
The story of Weeksville began with James Weeks, a black longshoreman from Virginia, believed to be a former slave, who bought land from the Lefferts family in 1838. His patch of farmland became a bustling place for blacks, partly because slavery in New York was outlawed in 1827, well before the Emancipation Proclamation of 1863. Scores of African-Americans, many fleeing Manhattan during the draft riots, quickly made their way to the area bounded by Fulton Street on the north, East New York Avenue on the south, Ralph Avenue on the east and Troy Avenue. 
In Weeksville, people found virtually everything they needed: schools, thriving churches, social organizations, even an orphanage and a home for the elderly. (Historians believe some of the churches were stops on the Underground Railroad.)
By the 1950's, that legacy was all but buried. Then in 1968, a historian and a pilot surveying Brooklyn, and benefiting from an aerial perspective, saw an odd clump of run-down wooden cottages tucked away on what appeared to be a trace of a road. Through some detective work, they soon realized they had discovered the remains of a lost community. The road itself, called Old Hunterfly Road, had a story: It had been a trade path used by Indians. In 1970, the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the Hunterfly Road Houses a landmark. Two years later, they were added to the National Register of Historic Places.
But prestige has not eased the struggle to preserve the houses. Over the years, Ms. Maynard's group has pieced together, through corporate gifts and city and neighborhood donations, the money for renovations, including, in the early 1980's, new roofs for all four houses. Still, the sparsely financed project has endured its share of setbacks. One house, destroyed by a fire, had to be completely rebuilt, and a security system was installed to ward off thieves.
Even now that Weeksville appears headed for its biggest boost yet, there is concern.
Last month, the group received the kind of news that would make any preservation project envious. It received a $400,000 grant from Save America's Treasures, a federal group that has helped preserve the homes of Harriet Tubman in upstate New York and Edith Wharton in Massachusetts. On any other day, it would have been a moment to celebrate. But it came on Sept. 11, and like the rest of New York and the nation, the Weeksville Society was grieving for the victims of the World Trade Center terrorist attack. 
In the weeks since, the society's excitement has been dampened by news that both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki plan to cut billions from the city and state budgets, a move some worry could stymie Weeksville's rebirth. The city owns the land where the new education center is to be built and the state has promised thousands of dollars to the project. City and state officials say it's too soon to tell how arts programs will be affected.
"This is a big moment for us," said Pam Green, the executive director of the Weeksville preservation group. "We finally have the money we need to expand, but given what's happened to the city, it's no longer clear that we'll have the necessary funding to create a level of stable programming."
Ms. Green said about $5 million more is needed, and the first of a series of fund-raising galas is set for Nov. 3.
She wants to hire a full-time museum educator, someone she could offer a two- or three-year contract, and to open an after-school program with computer training and art and dance classes. She also wants to upgrade the Weeksville Web site and market the houses nationwide as a tourist attraction.
"After everything we've gone through, we don't want to just restore the houses and then have no one come here," she said. "It's not the first part of Brooklyn people think to visit. Weeksville has to be made relevant for the 13-year-old across the street and the person visiting New York from across the country."
Ms. Green and Ms. Maynard walk the grounds daily imagining the site restored and open to scores of children. "The dream is so close," Ms. Maynard said. 
And that's why Ms. Green remains worried. "If we can't pull it off now with all of the momentum we have, we may not have another 30 years to wait. It's now or never."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Bergen Street in Brooklyn, at right, the Hunterfly Road Historic Houses were part of a community of freed slaves in the 1800's. Below left, the area in 1923. Below right, Pam Green, left, the executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville, and Joan Maynard, the executive director emeritus. They hope to finish work on the homes. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission)(pg. F1); The Society for the Preservation of Weeksville is leading the effort to restore the Hunterfly houses. Some items are already on display, above. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); SLAVERY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); CHILDREN (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1023 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
The Political Resurrection of a Nicaraguan Revolutionary

BYLINE:  By TINA ROSENBERG

 BODY:
The name Daniel Ortega will always conjure images of revolution. The world first glimpsed him on July 19, 1979, riding an armored personnel carrier as the victorious Sandinistas marched into Managua. Over the next 11 years, his was the solemn face of the nine-man junta ruling Nicaragua. Today, he is an even bet to be elected president of Nicaragua on Nov. 4. The rest of the world wonders why. 
 Mr. Ortega's electoral chances have little to do with Sandinismo. Voters in Nicaragua, as in other impoverished nations, rarely vote for candidates. Instead, they vote against incumbents. The problems of Nicaragua are so overwhelming and the political class so inept and corrupt that voters throw out government after government in hopes of trying something new. Mr. Ortega's opponent, Enrique Bolanos, was vice president in the current administration of President Arnoldo Aleman. 
 I lived in Nicaragua for two years in the mid-1980's, and have visited several times in the years since then. By the mid-80's, the revolution had already turned sour for most Nicaraguans, as war and economic mismanagement had wrecked the economy. But times are worse today. Children are going hungry. In some areas, 70 percent of the people are unemployed. Nicaragua has suffered a hurricane and then a drought, which parched the corn and bean patches that sustain most families. The state uses 40 percent of its export earnings to pay its external debt. Most devastating, the price of coffee, Nicaragua's only significant export, has fallen. 
Mr. Aleman's government is widely seen as indifferent to these problems and concerned mainly with the fortunes of business. Numerous newspaper reports accuse the president of using state funds to improve his properties -- most recently building a helipad -- and providing government contracts for relatives. He denies all accusations of corruption. Many Nicaraguans have concluded that for all Mr. Ortega's faults, he will at least worry about the poor. 
Washington, once again, would like to see Mr. Ortega defeated. The American Embassy helped to persuade a third-party candidate to drop out and support Mr. Bolanos, and American officials have warned that aid would dry up if Mr. Ortega won. 
The Bush administration complains that Mr. Ortega has not encouraged the return of the properties his government confiscated from wealthy landowners, many of whom are now American citizens. But making an issue of these properties may not help Mr. Bolanos. Restoring them to their owners is important, but jobless Nicaraguans may be forgiven if they do not consider it to be their government's top priority. 
Washington is also worried that Sandinista policies will return with Mr. Ortega. But Nicaragua, and the world, are very different places than 20 years ago. Last year, Mr. Ortega attended the Fourth of July party at the United States Embassy. He vows to respect private property, a market economy and democratic rules. Today there is no Somoza dictatorship to rebel against, no Soviet Union to provide ideological and financial support, and no covert American intervention. Most important, Mr. Ortega, like most politicians in Nicaragua, seems to be interested mainly in power, not ideology.
His love of power is what should concern voters today. As a leader of the opposition, Mr. Ortega has been irresponsible. He has often summoned his supporters into the streets, rattling the government with threats of violence. He has never allowed the Sandinista Party to examine its failings, and he has expelled most of his critics. 
In 1998, Mr. Ortega's stepdaughter, Zoilamerica Narvaez, accused him of having sexually abused her for more than a decade, beginning when she was 11. Mr. Ortega, who has denied the accusations, is immune from prosecution in Nicaragua as a member of the National Assembly. But the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights recently announced it would take up the case, which may get very uncomfortable for Mr. Ortega.
The repression of dictators no longer torments Nicaragua, but elected leaders have continued with the Somozas' corruption, authoritarianism, incompetence and indifference to the poor. The problem with Mr. Ortega is not that his ideas are a radical departure for Nicaragua, but that his authoritarian nature is too much like what has come before. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); FAMILY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (66%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); COFFEE MARKETS (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1024 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Expressed Over Schundler's School-Choice Proposal 

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
He is campaigning as the candidate of new, bold ideas, but even by his own standards nothing else in Bret D. Schundler's campaign is quite so bold as his proposal to reform New Jersey education.
 Mr. Schundler, an ardent supporter of school choice, proposes a program of tax credits to support private school education which he says would save the state almost a half-billion dollars a year by moving children from high-cost and bureaucrat-heavy public schools to less expensive private ones. The savings, he says, would allow the state to improve education for all children, with some left over for tax relief. 
 "We know the current system is not working," he said about the high dropout rate in some urban schools and the corruption and expensive bureaucracy of many school districts. "That's not acceptable. Let's do what's best for children and not let the special interests box us in." 
Others are more critical.
On Thursday, in a debate broadcast on ABC-TV's network-affiliated stations, his Democratic rival, James E. McGreevey, the Woodbridge mayor, said the plan would undermine public education. 
"I am saying to Democrats, independents and moderate Republicans, this is an untested and reckless plan," Mr. McGreevey said. "We need to make every public school work, not walk away from public schools."
Despite Mr. Schundler's enthusiasm, most education experts say there is almost no evidence that his plan, which is crucial to his financial vision for the state, would generate the cost savings he anticipates. 
Even conservative proponents of school choice say that public school budgets do not shrink in proportion to the number of students they lose, the main assumption in Mr. Schundler's plan.
Chester Finn, the president of the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation in Washington, a conservative research group, and one of the most prominent proponents of school choice, said that Mr. Schundler's assumption that the cost of public schools would shrink with every student they lost had not been borne out even in cities that had lost enrollment.
"His plan is absolutely the right economic theory, and it works on paper," he said. "But public school budgets have proved amazingly resistant to shrinkage even with enrollment declines."
And less than two weeks before the election, polls show that Mr. Schundler's proposal is not winning over even those voters who say education is one of their top priorities as they decide how to cast their votes. A New York Times poll conducted this week showed that even among those voters who named education as their single most important issue, 60 percent favored Mr. McGreevey to 23 percent for Mr. Schundler.
And while Mr. Schundler has been saying that he will use the savings from his education plan to help pay for a tax cut, likely voters said they thought he was about as likely as Mr. McGreevey to raise taxes. 
Mr. Schundler proposes to provide as much as $585 million in tax credits for donations to scholarship funds for students to attend private schools. 
He projects that 83,683 students would leave the public school system for private or parochial schools, reducing public school enrollment by 7 percent. That would save the state $1.06 billion a year, or $12,726 per student, he has said. 
The plan would also provide a 50 percent credit to help parents with tuition and other out-of-pocket expenses for private schools, at an estimated cost of $584.7 million a year. When that is subtracted from $1.06 billion in lower public school costs, it results in a projected savings to the state of $480 million a year.
Mr. Schundler bases his plan on a study by a small Libertarian research organization in Chicago, the Heartland Institute, which is a big proponent of school choice.
In the spring, Republican members of the State Assembly introduced two bills to put Mr. Schundler's plan into action. They have not been acted on so far. But Democratic Assembly members did ask the bipartisan Office of Legislative Services to perform a cost analysis of the proposals. The results, which were released this month, indicated that the two bills would actually cost taxpayers $199 million a year.
There were several reasons the state study reached a vastly different conclusion than the Heartland study. One has to do with the number of students and families each study presumed would take advantage of the program, and another with whether enrollment reductions would result in cost reductions for public education.
The writers of the Legislative Services report said that the Heartland study "dramatically inflates scholarship revenues that would be generated by the proposed tax credits" because they double-counted the 54,000 wealthiest taxpayers and overestimated the number of them who would contribute to the scholarship program.
The Heartland study also assumed that 5 percent of all taxpayers would contribute an average of $1,000 a year each to scholarship funds, "including 1.2 million taxpayers who earn less than $20,000 a year and have no state tax liability," the Legislative Services study said.
But the Legislative Services study concluded that only 18,348 students would shift from public to private and parochial schools if the two bills were enacted, lower than the Heartland study's projection of 83,683.
By shifting those 18,348 students out of public schools -- an average of 8 students per public school building -- the state would save $116 million a year, the study concluded. But the tax credits would also reduce the state's revenues by $315 million annually, for a net cost to the state of $199 million a year.
Currently, 10 states have some sort of public voucher, tax credit or tax deduction programs, according to the Education Commission of the States, a clearinghouse on education information that is based in Denver.
Enrollment in private and parochial schools has increased in many of those states, said Todd Ziebarth, a policy analyst with the commission who specializes in voucher and tax credit issues. But, he said, "there was not a mass exodus of students."
Mr. Schundler's critics say that is one of the main flaws of his plan.
"He tied into this one proposal almost his entire gubernatorial platform, from removing the tolls on the parkway to property tax relief," said State Senator Bernard F. Kenny, a Democrat from Hoboken who requested the Legislative Services study. "This is a very well-respected office. They did their analysis and they essentially devastated the Schundler proposal."
"It's one thing for him to pander to people who want to believe this; it's another to run on an educational issue that is based on fraudulent claims," Mr. Kenny said of Mr. Schundler. "It's beyond irresponsible. It's deceitful."
Mr. Schundler says the Legislative Services study is flawed because it underestimates the number of people who would take advantage of the tax credit and scholarship program. He also said that there would be a larger reduction in public school costs because many of those who would opt out of the public schools would be concentrated in urban areas, allowing for more wholesale reductions.
"These are the only two studies on my plan," he said. "Everything I have proposed I back up with facts."
But he is also quick to point out that the tax credit and scholarship plan "is only the fifth point of my five-point plan to improve public education."
Perhaps in light of polls showing that voters are not responding positively to his tax credit plan, Mr. Schundler has recently been talking of broader solutions for public education. One is to expand the charter school program, which New Jersey adopted in 1996. The state currently has 59 charter schools, including the Golden Door in Jersey City, which Mr. Schundler founded when he was mayor there. 
Mr. Schundler points to the Golden Door's successes as proof that more such schools should be established. 
"They have done spectacularly, and they have surpassed the test scores of other Jersey City schools," he said. In fact, the three-year-old Golden Door has only this year caught up to the Jersey City School District in test scores, which are not among the highest in the state. In the Language Arts portion of the state-mandated test for fourth graders, Golden Door students had a mean score of 207, compared with 198 for Jersey City schools. In mathematics, Golden Door scored 183 compared with Jersey City's 187, and in science the charter school scored 207 and Jersey City scored 206.
Mr. Schundler said he had not shifted his emphasis from his tax credit plan. "McGreevey has spent $20 million of special interest money to buy advertising to tell people that I'm cutting $600 million out of the public schools," he said. "I don't have that kind of money to tell them that that's not true, that in fact I want to put that money back into public education to make it better."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 30, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about quarreling between the Giuliani administration and the State Assembly over school aid omitted the given name and title of a legislator who criticized the potential shift of more funds away from the suburbs. He is Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, Democrat of Westchester County.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Golden Door charter school in Jersey City, founded by Bret D. Schundler, who wants more of them. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (94%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CITIES (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAX CREDITS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA; SCHUNDLER, BRET D; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1025 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
In Korea, Broadband IsPart of the Culture

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
Kim Sung Bae recalls with a rueful grin how hard it was to persuade people to pay an extra 40,000 Korean won a month, about $30, for the new high-speed Internet connections he was trying to sell two years ago.
 "I said, 'The speed is ultra-fast, you can enjoy data-surfing and stock transactions and bill paying,' but people didn't believe me," said Mr. Kim, a salesman for Hanaro Telecom, founded four years ago, just before a round of economic crisis. 
 The timing, though, was right. By late 1999, the nation was in a boom of sorts, and high-technology companies were leading the way. 
"There were so many Internet venture companies in Seoul and other big cities," Mr. Kim said, "and the demand for fast service with high quality was growing. Now everybody uses it."
Today Korea is suffering new economic problems that have people asking whether another crisis looms, but one thing is certain. The broadband service Mr. Kim and hundreds of others worked so hard to introduce -- a way to receive images and information at several times the speed possible with ordinary phone lines -- is now so embedded here that nothing is going to change except, perhaps, electronic communication getting even faster.
While broadband is available in all advanced countries, it has caught on here twice as fast as in Canada, which has the second-highest broadband penetration.
By the end of the year, said Lee Sang Chul, president of Korea Telecom, the telephone company, partly government-owned, that provides 49 percent of Korea's broadband service, "the number of actual users nationwide is projected at 23 million," or half the nation's population.
"In some apartment complexes," he added, in a speech earlier this month, "the residential penetration rate of broadband hovers over 75 percent."
Just why has broadband caught on here so much faster than in Japan, the United States and Western Europe?
The answer lies in part in efforts by the Korean government and in part in competition between Korea Telecom, founded more than a century ago, the upstart Hanaro and several even younger, brasher competitors.
The real answer, though, lies with a people who like nothing better than to communicate. "It's a culture thing," said Lee Jae Hong, a director in the information and communication ministry. "People loved it. Subscribers increased dramatically. Our domestic Internet content has lots of moving pictures and graphics. Everything needs to go 'pali, pali' -- quickly, quickly."
Young people crowding rooms full of computers, housewives in apartment blocks, executives and office workers hustling to ride the crest of the information revolution -- all wanted the same thing: quick communication, quick games, quick contact.
There was "growing demand, responsive supply and appropriate government policy," said Lee Sang Chul. "These three elements created synergism to prompt explosive growth."
The demand is such that smoke-filled "PC rooms," where young customers spend hours at a stretch, have largely replaced the relatively leisurely cybercafes. To chat with friends, play games and do school work on line, food and drinks are a distraction.
"Koreans are fond of community," said Lee Taek Kyu, the 34-year-old owner of Orange PC, a third-floor room in a small building in central Seoul, packed with about 50 computers, almost all of them occupied by youthful customers paying 1,500 won, or $1.15, an hour. "In Seoul, there are between 15,000 and 20,000 rooms like this," he said. "They all have broadband service."
Games are undoubtedly the biggest attaction for the 20-somethings in his PC room, and Diablo and Starcraft, both from the United States, and a Korean football game rank as favorites. "They go out, they eat some, they come back, and they're here for five hours, maybe longer," Mr. Lee said as an assistant tried to clear the air with a disinfectant spray.
The broadband craze is, if anything, more pronounced in the apartment buildings that form the skylines of Seoul and other cities. Virtually every new building is now built with fiber-optic wiring to each apartment, and in the last year or two this wiring has been installed in most older buildings.
The advent of broadband, though, was not cheap. The government estimates the cost of developing the technology, building the infrastructure and marketing it at $30 billion between 2000 and 2005.
Korea Telecom and Hanaro, which rely largely on telephone wires, and Thrunet, which uses cable modems, are counting on huge subscriber bases. By the end of the year, there will be eight million subscribers, 49 percent on Korea Telecom's Megapass service, 26 percent on Hanaro's HanaFOS, 17 percent wired to Thrunet and the rest divided among half a dozen small providers.
Government influence is pervasive. "Korea Telecom rose quickly because the government had some vision," said Oh Sung Jin, deputy director of the communication ministry's broadband section. "We're pushing carriers to push the service with low fees."
The theory is that all providers will make money, but now all are suffering.
Korea Telecom stock has fallen to 40,000 won today from 180,000 won two years ago, while the government has found no buyers for its 40 percent stake. Stock in Hanaro, formed at the behest of the communications ministry to compete with Korea Telecom as a telephone provider, has fallen to 2,500 won from 20,000 won a year ago.
Hardest hit is Thrunet, capitalized in 1999 with $150 million from Korea's Trident Group, a computer maker, and supplemented by $100 million from Softbank of Japan and $40 million from Microsoft. Not listed in Korea, the stock hit $90 on the Nasdaq two years ago but is now worth $1.35 a share. 
Government researchers, though, remain committed to low prices. The important thing is return on investment, said Yoon Byeong Nam, vice president of the National Computerization Agency, responsible for what is formally called the Korea Information Superhighway Project. "At the beginning, they estimated, if they got 2 million subscribers they would break even. Now K.T. has 3.5 million and Hanaro has 1.8 million and Thrunet around 1 million. At first, K.T. managers complained the price was too cheap, but they don't any more."
Broadband's spread, however, gives some Koreans pause. "Parents worry that their kids are so addicted, through games, chatting, whatever," said Jang Song Hyon, a businessman. "Young people chat on computers for hours."
Mr. Jang's wife refuses to use the Internet, but admits the addiction is catching. He and his two daughters all have their own computers, linked to separate broadband lines.
"I pay at least half my bills through the Internet," Mr. Jang said. "Also, I make reservations and buy tickets that way."
His elder daughter, Jin Hee, says she spends 10 hours a day online, at home and the office, using five e-mail addresses. "I guess my home is fairly typical," she said. "Koreans like to talk to each other."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lee Jong Gyu, a technician with Hanaro Telecom in Seoul, South Korea, installed broadband equipment. High-speed service has quickly caught on in South Korea. (Don Kirk for The New York Times) Chart: "Speediest Countries"South Korea is well ahead of the rest of the world in terms of broadband - or high-speed - Internet use. High-speed Internet subscribers per 100 residents South Korea: 13.9Canada: 6.2Sweden: 4.5United States: 3.2The Netherlands: 2.7Austria: 2.4Belgium: 2.3Denmark: 2.2Germany: 1.0Japan: 0.9Switzerland: 0.7Iceland: 0.7(Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: KT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

TICKER: KTCD (LSE) (91%); KT (NYSE) (91%); 030200 (KSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (79%); DENMARK (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (69%); GERMANY (67%); BELGIUM (67%); AUSTRIA (54%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1026 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Qualcomm to Unveil System To Improve Aviation Safety
Qualcomm, a leading wireless technology company, intends to announce plans today that it hopes will breathe life into Globalstar Telecommunications, the money-losing satellite company in which it holds a minority stake.
 In response to the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, Qualcomm says it has developed an airborne communications system that can be used to improve existing aviation safety services. The technology functions on Globalstar's 48-satellite system, which allows two-way communications between aircraft and a ground-based network. Page C2. 

Juggling Act for Pakistani Paper
As editor of The Daily Jang, a Pakistani newspaper published in Britain, Zahoor Niazi is no stranger to managing competing interests. But his juggling act is increasingly common among the Muslim and Arab press in Britain as they struggle to balance readers' skepticism of American and British military actions with Prime Minister Tony Blair's message of war on terror -- not on Islam. C11.

AOL Gains Cable Rights in China
In signing a deal with the Chinese government to broadcast a cable channel in southern China, AOL Time Warner became the first foreign broadcaster to win the right to distribute programming on cable television systems in the country. Its key to success seems to be avoiding sex, violence and news. C11.

Microsoft Relents on Blocking Site
When Microsoft introduced Windows XP, it also upgraded its flagship Web site, MSN.com, and prompted an outcry by preventing users with certain browsers from viewing the site. In those cases, the users saw error messages recommending that they upgrade their browsers, preferably to Microsoft's Internet Explorer. At first, Microsoft held its ground, but it later backed down under relentless criticism. C2.

Koreans Snap Up High-Speed Access
While high-speed Internet service is available in all advanced countries, it is catching on particularly fast in South Korea. C3.

Nestle Seeks Haagen-Dazs Rights
Nestle plans to buy the United States rights to the Haagen-Dazs ice cream brand from General Mills to better compete with Unilever, the world's largest ice cream maker. Nestle would not comment on how much it planned to spend, but analysts have estimated the value of such a deal at $600 million to $650 million. C6.

A Startling Book Jacket Online
An e-mail message circulating on the Internet last week gave recipients a jolt when they clicked on the Web link in the text of the message, which took them to a book for sale on Amazon.com's British site. The book jacket bore Arabic script, the face of a Saudi prince in traditional attire and the image of a plane flying through the top of a skyscraper. In the current climate, it was hard not to think of the terrorist attacks. But the book, whose title translates to English as "My story with the skyscraper Alwaleed Bin Talal," is about a building under construction in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. C3.

Interest Surges in E-Mail Marketing
As the anthrax scare disrupts mail-handling procedures, companies that provide e-mail marketing and online billing services said that they had seen a surge of interest from prospective clients and from current customers looking to make even more use of online options. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.

Page by Page History of the Web
Brewster Kahle, a computer scientist, has collected more than 10 billion Web pages. Last week, he introduced the Wayback Machine, a free service that makes them available to anyone with Web access. New Economy. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,545.17 up 341.06Nasdaq composite -- 1,768.96 up 97.6510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.52% down 0.09The euro -- $0.8922 down 0.0068The dollar -- 122.98 yen up 1.81

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (87%); ICE CREAM (85%); BROADBAND (78%); AIRCRAFT COMMUNICATION & NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); RELIGION (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (66%); ICE CREAM MFG (66%); FROZEN FOODS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GLOBALSTAR INC (92%); QUALCOMM INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); AOL INC (82%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%); NESTLE SA (53%); GENERAL MILLS INC (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); AOL (NYSE) (82%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%); NESN (SWX) (53%); GIS (NYSE) (52%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (52%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (52%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (70%) CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1027 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: MILAN; 
Italian Tapes Portray Young Arabs Operating on the Edges of Islamic Terror

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: MILAN, Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Sometimes, they could be overheard negotiating the price of false passports and identification cards. Five hundred dollars a set, customers complained, was simply more than an unemployed Algerian could afford. 
 At other times, they offered travel advice. The best route to training camps for Islamic fighters in Afghanistan, they counseled, was through Iran rather than Pakistan, which was too full of intelligence agents. They also talked about the risks of cellphones. It was important to change phones often or, better yet, use messengers. 
 These conversations, by phone or in person among men of Arab background living in several Western European cities, were intercepted by Italian officials during four months early this year by tapping phones and bugging an apartment near Malpensa airport north of this Italian financial and business center. 
For all their talk of terror and tactics, though, the men on the tapes were neither associates of Osama bin Laden nor members of his Al Qaeda terror network. Investigators say they have no evidence that these men were involved with the Sept. 11 hijackers or were part of recently disclosed plots to attack American Embassies in Paris and Rome. 
Instead, the men were basically Al Qaeda aspirants, young Arabs who provided logistical terror services to other groups of Muslim radicals in North Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere.
The transcripts of the tapes, along with other Italian court documents, provide an inside look at groups operating at the edges of Islamic terrorism in Europe. In fact, their very distance from the core underscores what terrorism experts have described as one of Al Qaeda's central organizational principles, one that helps make it such a maddening foe -- its extreme decentralization. 
Investigators here say it is possible that in a kind of barter arrangement, Mr. bin Laden put his camps at their disposal, in exchange for occasional services in Europe like providing false documents. But there is no evidence of this. 
Unlike the Hamburg-based hijackers, who were of middle-class background and well educated, the groups here are composed mostly of uneducated individuals of working-class origins, mainly Algerians and Tunisians between the ages of 20 and 30, investigators say.
An exception is one of the leaders of the Milan group, a 43-year-old Tunisian named Essid Sami Ben Khemais. The police in Spain suspect that he may have met there last April with two men believed to have met Mohamed Atta, a mastermind of the Sept. 11 hijackings, when he traveled to Spain in July.
To officials in several countries, the attacks in America were confirmation that some groups of Arab radicals in Europe were gradually moving from their purely service role to active terror. Evidence came, officials said, with the arrest by German police in Frankfurt last December, after a tip from French investigators, of four Arab men closely allied to the Milan group who were suspected of planning to blow up a Christmas market in the French city of Strasbourg.
The man suspected of being the principal organizer of the plot, an Algerian named Mohamed Bensakhria, managed to evade the raid and escape to Spain. But he was arrested there in June and extradited to France. "The real alarm was Christmas last year," a senior European investigator said this week. "Sept. 11 was the confirmation that somewhere a pot was boiling."
It was last winter, too, that investigators in Italy began tapping the phones of Islamic radicals in northern Italy, harvesting information that led them to the apartment in Gallarate where the conversations were bugged.
The four months of wiretaps and bugged conversations revealed an intense telephone traffic between the Milan group and groups in Munich, Frankfurt, Brussels and elsewhere. 
They also gave evidence of frequent travels by members of the groups. Mr. Ben Khemais, for instance, traveled to Spain, where he met with other radicals. In August, the German police clandestinely searched the apartment in Munich of Lased Ben Heni, a 31-year-old Libyan who claimed to have trained at a Qaeda camp in Afghanistan. The police discovered used train tickets to Palermo in Sicily. The purpose of the trip remains obscure.
But Mr. Ben Heni, in a bugged conversation with Mr. Ben Khemais and four other Arab men, discussed plans to pick up large quantities of false documents from a hiding place near Gallarate. Whether the passports were for Arabs seeking passage to Afghanistan is unclear, but he talks about the route to reach the terrorist camps there. "You have to go to any embassy in France or London and ask for a visa for Mecca, but through Iran," he said. 
"There is total collaboration with the Iranians," he went on. "Pakistan used to be the most comfortable route, but in recent years there are too many intelligence services." 
The phone intercepts also disclose contacts with London, notably to Abu Doha, the pseudonym of a 36-year-old Algerian named Rachid Kefflous who was arrested there in February and awaits extradition to the United States on terrorism charges.
The tale of the tapes is filled with the logistics of procuring and selling fake passports, identity cards, driver licenses and other documents. In one conversation, the men discuss putting poison gas in cans of tomatoes. In others, they discuss chemicals for making bombs. 
After the Frankfurt arrests, the men are distraught. Mr. Ben Khemais, in a phone conversation with Tarek Maaroufi, a Tunisian-born Belgian living in Brussels, laments, "I'm informing you that half of the group in Germany was taken." To Mr. Maaroufi's expression of disbelief, Mr. Ben Khemais responds, "Yes, did you understand me? They've arrested the brothers in Germany and found the cache of weapons in Germany, in Frankfurt."
Investigators describe Mr. Ben Heni as the most soldierlike and aggressive, and he appears to suffer most from the passivity. To let off steam, he laces even the most practical conversations with diatribes against the West. In one conversation with Mr. Ben Khemais and another Tunisian, he suddenly begins talking about Mr. bin Laden. "Believe me, the sheik is not just watching," he says. "He is planning something because in his wishes he has a goal and he wants to achieve it, just as he has achieved all his desires."
Some of Mr. Ben Heni's words may be mere boasting, investigators caution. In the same conversation, late in the evening of March 9, he talks at length about millions of dollars Mr. bin Laden supposedly earned by selling to China undetonated cruise missiles, fired by the Clinton administration into Afghanistan after the attacks on two American Embassies in East Africa in 1998. Similar claims were raised in 1998 and the Chinese firmly denied them. But Mr. Ben Heni's most outsized boast is that groups like those shattered by this year's arrests demonstrate that the radicals have Europe in their grip.
"God loves us, because while it was once our wish to arrive in Europe and then return home with money," he said that same evening, "God loves us because now Europe is in our hands, because God showed us the way and we understood and are mujahedeen in his name.
"We have to be like serpents," he went on. "We have to strike, and then hide."
Apparently, they did not hide well enough. On April 3, after intercepted conversations made it clear that Mr. Ben Khemais and others were aware of the surveillance and were planning to flee, the Italian police swooped in, arresting three people in Gallarate and another in Milan. On Oct. 10, remnants of the groups were rounded up in other cities.
Mr. Ben Heni was arrested in Germany. But several others known to the police, including a Tunisian and an Egyptian, remain at large, possibly in France.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Essid Sami Ben Khemais, Mohamed Bensakhria, and Lased Ben Heni. Mr. Bensakhria was arrested in connection with a bomb plot. Mr. Ben Khemais and Mr. Ben Heni were taped by the Italian police. (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (91%); RELIGION (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); AIRPORTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); AIRLINES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); CHRISTMAS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); ROME, ITALY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ITALY (93%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); GERMANY (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ITALY

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1028 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Taking a Back Seat In Latest Talks on Climate 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
With the United States in attendance but sitting on the sidelines, more than 150 countries begin 12 days of talks in Morocco today aimed at completing the rule book for the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty requiring cuts in gases linked to global warming. 
 The goal of many of the countries at the meeting, in Marrakesh, is to achieve enough consensus on details that the treaty can be ratified and enacted next year, the 10th anniversary of the Rio Earth Summit, where a previous, but voluntary, climate treaty was forged. 
 After that nonbinding agreement failed to achieve reductions in the gas emissions, countries began the protracted talks leading to the binding commitments outlined in the Kyoto accord in 1997.
But proponents of enacting the treaty are hampered by two things: persistent disagreements over how to measure gas reductions and levy penalties when a target is missed, and the rejection of the treaty by President Bush last March. 
Several countries, most notably Japan, have said it would be difficult for them to ratify the agreement if the United States, the largest producer of heat-trapping greenhouse gases, did not join the treaty. 
Japan plays a pivotal role. Under the complex arithmetic of the treaty, it takes effect only when it is ratified by countries accounting for 55 percent of gas that industrial countries emitted in 1990. Without the United States, almost any combination of nations can reach that level only if Japan goes along.
Public opinion in Japan is strongly in favor of the Kyoto treaty, which was drafted on Japanese soil in 1997. But industries there have intensively lobbied against it in recent weeks, Japanese officials said, partly fearing that they would incur costs not shared by American industries if the pollution rules took effect. 
"Our government thinks that it is extremely important to have one international rule and that every country should act," said a senior Japanese environmental official. "Participation by the U.S.A. is very, very important," he said. 
Japanese officials have met three times with the Bush administration since mid-September to discuss climate change, but not ways to make the treaty acceptable to the United States, officials from both governments said. 
Mr. Bush and many senators have said that the Kyoto Protocol would harm the economy and unfairly require only the industrial nations to cut emissions, while fast-growing developing countries like China face no such constraints.
Administration officials said on Friday that they were attending the meeting only to prevent measures from being adopted that might saddle the United States with indirect costs or create harmful precedents.
They said that Mr. Bush's rejection of the treaty was final, but that the administration still planned to pursue other approaches to the problem. 
"Our position is that climate change is an important issue and one which President Bush has stated we're seriously committed to addressing," Paula J. Dobriansky, the under secretary of state for global affairs, said in an interview.
There are plenty of other obstacles to enactment of the treaty, with or without the United States, and dozens of parties are affected by the deal. Each country faces a different set of consequences should the treaty take effect.
Disagreements over details of the treaty's rules were whittled down significantly at the last bargaining session, held in Bonn in July. But last week, news reports from Europe made it clear that substantial differences still divided important players.
Germany, with a government influenced by a strong Green Party, has said no new credit should be granted to countries with vast forests for the role trees play in absorbing carbon dioxide. Russia, in contrast, has pressed for more such credits as a prerequisite for its support. 
On Friday, without citing Russia, the German environment minister, Jurgen Trittin, told Agence France-Presse that "it is out of the question to renegotiate, upwards or downwards."
Some countries were still holding out hope that the United States would eventually rejoin the treaty. 
But experts involved in the negotiations said that attacks on Sept. 11, by greatly boosting the popularity of Mr. Bush, lessened the likelihood that there would be a shift in the American position any time soon. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); MOROCCO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1029 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OIL SUPPLY; 
Topping Off Strategic Reserve Is Proposed

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
As nervousness rises about how tensions in the Middle East could disrupt oil supplies, President Bush is considering the unprecedented step of filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to full capacity, according to Congressional and White House aides and oil industry experts.
 The aides, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that President Bush was reviewing a plan that would call for oil to be acquired in any of three ways: Congress could appropriate money to buy more oil for the reserve; the government could take royalty payments from oil companies that drill in the Gulf of Mexico in the form of oil rather than cash; or the White House could combine both approaches. 
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, led by Saudi Arabia, a United States ally, has so far held to a pledge made just after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to keep the flow of oil stable. Few people think a rupture in supplies is likely, but as the American-led bombing of Afghanistan drags on, some in Congress and the administration worry that anger in the Middle East over the air raids raises the chance of terrorist attacks upon the region's oil infrastructure or pressure on local leaders to curtail exports. 
"None of us know if markets will be disrupted or not," said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. "But the possibility of a supply disruption is higher today than it was yesterday."
The United States imports less oil from the Middle East than it did 30 years ago, and it would not be immediately paralyzed by oil shortages if supplies from the region fell considerably. But the economy and consumers would be hit with sharply higher prices as supplies dwindled. Despite the country's reduced reliance on oil from the Persian Gulf, it consumes and imports far more oil over all than it did a decade ago, exacerbating the economy's vulnerability to a precipitous supply drop.
Created in 1975, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was designed to smooth out, in the short run, the price spikes and possible shortages that could be caused by a disruption in the oil supply. A network of underground caverns in Louisiana and Texas, the reserve can hold up to 700 million barrels of oil. The most it ever contained was about 590 million in the early 1990's, which at the time would have been enough for 82 days if there were no imports. The reserve has about 545 million barrels now, but that would last just 53 days, according to the Department of Energy.
The reserve is expected to add 48 million barrels of oil by 2003, much of it as the payment for a deal last year under which oil companies received crude oil from the government to be refined into heating fuel.
Industry experts and Congressional officials said they thought the administration would most likely opt for the so-called royalty in-kind payments of oil. The government receives payments from companies that lease federal lands for oil and gas drilling and can take those payments in cash or in oil. 
Now President Bush has been presented with a plan that calls for the reserve to receive 100,000 to 125,000 barrels a day for at least the next two years, industry experts and Congressional officials said. That would yield about 70 million barrels. Added to the 48 million barrels already expected, that would nearly bring the reserve to full capacity, said Jan Stuart, head of research for global energy futures at ABN Amro in New York.
The in-kind payments would also help to stabilize oil prices, Mr. Stuart and others said. That in turn would bring some relief to oil companies and to oil-producing countries, which are losing billions of dollars in revenue as oil prices lag. "It helps in putting a floor to oil prices, and that's what people have been looking for after oil prices tanked a few weeks ago," Mr. Stuart said.
But the question is whether building the reserve's inventory through the royalty in-kind approach would provide enough oil fast enough to avert an emergency. Mr. Goldstein contends that appropriating money to buy oil on the markets would pump up the oil cushion faster than receiving a bit of oil daily from the royalty program. Prices now, at about $22 a barrel, are lower than they have been in years. Yet at a time when so many constituencies are vying for a shrinking pot of federal money, there are no champions to argue for tucking oil away for an indefinite period.
"We need security in the markets now, not two or three years from now," Mr. Goldstein said. "Oil prices are low now, so we would be buying an insurance policy at a very fair price." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); ROYALTIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%) AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; LEHMAN BROTHERS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1030 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ALLIANCE; 
Rebel Alliance Is Frustrated By U.S. Raids

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: BAGRAM, Afghanistan, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
A week ago tonight, soldiers and commanders of the rebel Northern Alliance gleefully watched American bombs begin to fall on Taliban positions just north of Kabul.
 Seven days later, American jets have bombed the wrong side of the front line twice, including an errant bomb that killed one person and wounded eight, among them four children, in a campaign that has left the alliance baffled. 
 Northern Alliance forces have actually lost ground to the Taliban, and refugees from Kabul warn darkly that the bombing campaign could swing public opinion firmly into the camp of the Taliban.
With the onset of Ramadan, the Islamic holy month, possibly curtailing military operations in only two and a half weeks, hopes of a quick alliance breakthrough are dimming. Blame for the false start appears to lie with both sides. 
On Saturday, American planes carried out their heaviest raids yet here, winning the praise of alliance commanders who are expected to wage a ground offensive.
But one of the final bombs of the day demolished a civilian house about two miles inside Northern Alliance territory, killing a 25-year-old mother of two and wounding eight other civilians. Officials in the local hospital also reported treating three civilians injured in bombing on the Taliban side.
Today, American jets carried out no major attacks in the immediate area, though they did target another part of Afghanistan, near Tajikistan, striking an area said by the Northern Alliance to contain several hundred Arab and other foreign soldiers. While that offensive is in support of the rebels, to members of the Northern Alliance here such bombing suggests the inconsistent nature of the American campaign. 
Alliance officials in that region praised the American strikes, saying that both sides had coordinated the plan. But in general, for alliance forces to break through Taliban lines or around the cities of Mazar-i-Sharif and Galoqan in northern Afghanistan, several days of unyielding strikes should be carried out in one place, alliance leaders back in the Bagram area say.
"Bomb it day and night for four days in a row," a senior alliance official said tonight. "Don't let them sleep. Then we will be able to break the lines."
But the alliance lost ground earlier this week around Mazar-i-Sharif, a city the alliance was thought to have had a good chance of taking only a few days ago.
It is becoming increasingly clear that the loose coalition of northern minority groups fighting the Taliban has its own problems, as it appears increasingly to be a largely ineffective political and military force. It is clearly reeling from the assassination last month of the charismatic military leader Ahmed Shah Massoud. The assassination, carried out by two men said to have ties to Osama bin Laden, appears to have nearly paralyzed the alliance.
The alliance has failed to choose the 60 delegates it will send to a long-delayed meeting on forming a post-Taliban government. Nearly a month ago, an alliance delegation in Rome agreed to send the 60 representatives to meet with 60 other people representing exiled dissident groups and the former king, Mohammad Zahir Shah. But neither side has selected its delegates. Alliance officials say they hope that the meeting will take place sometime before the end of November.
The plodding pace and logistical problems that cripple the alliance were also on display here today. Burhanudin Rabbani, political head of the alliance, gathered with various senior ministers today in the Panjshir Valley. But Gen. Mohammad Fahim, the alliance's new military commander, was unable to attend because a sandstorm kept his helicopter from leaving Tajikistan. Various senior generals including Abdul Rashid Dostum, the commander in the pocket of territory that the alliance controls south of Mazar-i-Sharif, also were unable to attend, in his case because it was too dangerous to leave.
With General Fahim absent, the meeting focused on political matters, a senior alliance official said. Weather permitting, General Fahim should arrive by Monday. 
If it meets, the leadership council could decide where alliance forces should attack. So far, alliance commanders near Kabul say they have received no orders yet to attack.
Refugees arriving from Kabul today, the sort of people who in the past have been fervent in their support of the United States and the Northern Alliance, questioned what both groups were doing. Shiraqa, an unemployed 30-year-old, said that popular support in Kabul was gradually shifting toward the Taliban. "They are fed up with the bombing," he said of the city's residents. "It's lasted too long."
He said that if the bombing continued with no clear result and mounting civilian casualties, frustration with the alliance and the United States would grow. Kabul residents, he said, are looking for decisive military action. "They are very interested in waiting for the Northern Alliance to come into Kabul," he said. "They are waiting, but no one comes."
The tensions here were evident in sermons given today at the funeral for the young woman killed by the American bomb. The woman, Koko Gul, died while sitting at home sewing with her family members. 
The first mullah to speak was an older man who said the Northern Alliance had itself to blame for the death because they asked for American assistance. The second mullah, a younger man, said all foreign countries should be forced out of Afghanistan. As they spoke, the young woman's husband, Mizra, who was at the front line at the time of the bombing, sat listening with tears rolling down his face. 
After the burial, the husband walked away with his hands clasped behind his back. His hands trembled as neighbors offered their condolences.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mirza Gul was handed a bundle containing the Koran at the funeral for his wife, Koko Gul, 25, who died when an American bomb hit Ghani Khil, Afghanistan. (Tyler Hicks/Getty Images, for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Men in Ghani Khil, Afghanistan, carried the body of Koko Gul, 25, a mother of two who was killed on Saturday when an American bomb was accidentally dropped on their village, about two miles inside Northern Alliance territory. At left, some mourners at the funeral. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/Getty Images, for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); RAMADAN (75%); AIRLINES (72%); RELIGION (70%); REFUGEES (56%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) ROHDE, DAVID; MASSOUD, AHMED SHAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAJIKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); KABUL (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1031 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: China's Heir Apparent in Debut on the World Stage 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
It might seem like the most commonplace of diplomatic missions: the vice president of China touring Moscow, London, Paris, Berlin and Madrid for handshakes with presidents, prime ministers and business titans.
 But the vice president is Hu Jintao, and to the cognoscenti of Chinese politics his journey is filled with meaning. As he makes the trip, which began in Russia this weekend and continues in Britain on Monday, his every word will be scrutinized, and not only in Washington and other foreign capitals, but also at home. 
 That is because Mr. Hu, 58, now appears virtually certain to take over as China's supreme leader in the next 18 months and, if he keeps his cards in order, he may well lead the world's most populous country for 10 years. He is expected to succeed Jiang Zemin, who is now 75 and slated for retirement as head of the Communist Party in the fall of 2002 and then as president that winter. 
Yet astonishingly enough, in an era when China is avidly pursuing global interests, the heir apparent has never before visited Russia or Western Europe, and is thought to have seen the United States only once, as part of a youth delegation in the early 1980's. In fact, no one can recall Mr. Hu ever meeting on his own with a senior American official.
"This trip is something of a coming-out party for Hu," said Joseph Fewsmith, an expert on Chinese politics at Boston University.
To foreign and domestic scholars, Mr. Hu is a political cipher. Even by the secretive standards of Beijing politics, his personal leanings are largely unrevealed on the great issues of the day, including the pace of political change at home and China's ultimate goals abroad.
His venture into big-power diplomacy is another calibrated step in Mr. Hu's cautious but apparently effective ascension, one that under the peculiarities of Chinese politics has required him to keep his head down.
Mr. Hu has been part of the ruling inner circle and the presumed successor since 1992, when Deng Xiaoping, then the paramount leader, labeled him the most promising leader of his generation and promoted him, at the tender age, for China, of 49, onto the all-powerful seven-member Standing Committee of the party Politburo. He has been China's vice president since 1998. 
This much, at least, seems clear: he is part of the governing consensus that favors China's economic opening, but under the continued rule of the Communist Party. Some Western diplomats say they are hopeful that as the spearhead of a new generation, not steeped in the revolution of the 1930's and 40's, he will be a force for faster change. But they also admit that they just do not know.
Party insiders describe Mr. Hu as a smooth and competent operator -- "not a lightweight" -- and he impressed both conservatives and reformers above him through a succession of jobs in the provinces and in Beijing.
He is said to have a photographic memory, and in meetings here with foreign officials, he is known for speaking clearly and without notes. But he hews to the script, and people come away with a feeling that he showed "no surface," as one diplomat put it last week.
The European tour is intended in large part to burnish Mr. Hu's credentials as a statesman for the home audience. The extensive news coverage here, featuring his friendly exchanges this weekend with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, has already begun.
"This will be the first opportunity to see him in action on the main international stage," said a Western diplomat. "And the Chinese officials preparing his trip have been very conscious of that. They need to make sure he appears on the right stages with the right backdrops."
The television spots will be the main message in what will mostly be glorified courtesy calls, diplomats said, though the war against terrorism has given him a current topic to discuss.
Mr. Hu's bland image may not simply reflect a cautious personality but also the special demands on him as the front-runner, building on Mr. Deng's blessing, but working hard, avoiding mistakes and not upstaging President Jiang, he managed to solidify his position among the party elite.
Compared with the convulsive personal politics of the Mao era, the coming legally scheduled transition "indicates a new degree of quasi-institutionalism in leadership politics," said Frederick C. Teiwes, an expert on China at the University of Sydney.
Still, the tone could not be more different from Western elections. Ultimate choices are made in secret by a small group of men, in a culture that punishes boasting or overt pursuit of power, and values consensus and stability. "Politically, Hu's profile contains many of the same qualities that made Jiang attractive in 1989," Mr. Teiwes said. "No involvement in the Tiananmen events, an image as a reformist and yet acceptability to both the conservative and reformist wings of the Communist Party."
Born in December 1942, Mr. Hu was a student of hydroelectric engineering at the prestigious Qinghua University in Beijing in the 1960's. 
During the Cultural Revolution he was sent to the remote province of Gansu, where he worked his way up the party ladder in engineering and construction bureaus. He also became involved with the Communist Youth League, and in 1984 he moved to Beijing as its national leader, developing wide contacts that serve him now.
In the 1980's, as the party cultivated younger leaders, Mr. Hu was one of the stars. At 42 he was made party secretary of the poor southern province of Guizhou, giving him hands-on government experience.
Then in 1988 he was given a thankless job: he was made party secretary of Tibet soon after anti-Chinese rioting had broken out. He helped preside over a crackdown, and that stint is seen by party colleagues as proving his toughness and loyalty, though he had health problems in Tibet's high altitude and often stayed outside the province.
More recently, Mr. Hu has had responsibility for major internal party affairs and for the Communist Party School, a core training ground and think tank. Under his guidance the school has become a more lively site of inquiry into political and economic alternatives, experts say, leading to speculation about Mr. Hu's interest in bolder change.
His public unveiling has been steady and deliberate. He gained his first diplomatic experience in the last few years, visiting Japan, South Korea and Africa. In 1999 he became vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, allowing him to start cultivating ties with the military.
Heads were turned in the spring of 1999 when he and not the president delivered a delicate television address to the angry students who threw rocks at the American Embassy here after the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. 
In that appearance, the best glimpse many Chinese have had of Mr. Hu, he emphasized the need for everyone to get back to their studies and jobs, even while repeating China's anger over American policy.
While there has been much speculation that Zeng Qinghong, a party insider who is a protege of Mr. Jiang's, might rival Mr. Hu for the top spot, that now appears unlikely, Chinese and Western experts say. 
Among other signs, Mr. Jiang has not been able to install Mr. Zeng on the Standing Committee before next fall's party congress, when the new party head will be selected.
The other unresolved question, at least among Chinese and Western experts operating outside the "black box" of high-level politics here, is whether Mr. Jiang will also step down from his third major title: chairman of the military commission. Some Jiang supporters have floated the idea that he should stay on for continuity.
Some Chinese and Western experts say Mr. Jiang has the votes to keep that powerful post, which would definitely crimp Mr. Hu's powers. Other experts say that Mr. Jiang appears more likely to resign in full, either because he has lost ground this year, criticized for promoting a personality cult and ramming through his plan to open the party to capitalists or because, in yet another scenario, he is confident of his continued influence behind the scenes.
One of the seemingly strangest aspects of Mr. Hu's career is his avoidance of America and American officials. "For Hu to visit the United States would be unseemly -- as if he were making a power grab," Mr. Fewsmith said.
"Perhaps his trip to Europe should be seen as a sort of a substitute," Mr. Fewsmith said. "It does introduce him to the West and gives Hu a first-hand view of the West."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advocates of Tibetan independence gave Mr. Hu a noisy reception yesterday in Britain. (Agence France-Presse); Vice President Hu Jintao of China was greeted Saturday in Moscow by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1032 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
A Juggling Act for a Pakistani Newspaper in Britain

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 28 

 BODY:
As editor of The Daily Jang, a Pakistani newspaper published in Britain, Zahoor Niazi is no stranger to managing competing interests. But his juggling act is increasingly common among the Muslim and Arab press in Britain as they struggle to balance readers' skepticism of American and British military actions in Central Asia with Prime Minister Tony Blair's message of war on terror -- not on Islam.
 From The Daily Jang's offices on a secluded street in London, where the buzz of a half-dozen Pakistani reporters chatting in their native Urdu is periodically interrupted by the Islamic call to prayer, Mr. Niazi, 56, crossed his hands, studded with diamond and topaz rings, and discussed grievances shared by his Muslim readers. 
 Among them are the West's insistence on branding Osama bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network as Muslim fanatics, rather than simply as terrorists, and the willingness of the United States to bomb Afghanistan before producing conclusive proof of Mr. bin Laden's guilt. There is also a lingering distrust of Western powers, whose intervention, many readers think, may provide a temporary solution but lays the groundwork for fresh political squabbles.
"Many Muslims are angry about the same things as Osama bin Laden," said Mr. Niazi, who emigrated from Pakistan in 1981. "They just object to his methods."
That is not to say that Mr. Niazi allows The Daily Jang to publish inflammatory language. On the contrary, with Britain's independent media watchdog, the Press Complaints Commission, on the lookout for fanaticism, he said he is under more pressure than ever to tone down material that might incite violence.
In recent weeks, that has meant refusing to print about one-third of the 20 or so letters the newspaper receives each day. Some, he said, argued for a Muslim uprising to support Mr. bin Laden. It also meant toning down the language of some articles -- like one that reported on the call by Muslim extremists in Britain for a holy war against the Pakistani president, Pervez Musharraf -- so that readers "would not be incited to carry out the instructions," Mr. Niazi said. At the same time, he said, The Daily Jang must be true to readers who are distrustful of the West.
And so, to America's declaration of war on terrorism, The Daily Jang wrote in a Sept. 17, editorial: "The new enemy of the next cold war, till now faceless, nameless and stateless, has been finally identified and tagged and the line of division marked out. The Muslims, preferably Arab, stand damned and segregated."
An editorial on Sept. 24 questioned America's intentions in lifting economic sanctions: "It is doubtful that the United States will open the cornucopia of plenty for Pakistan as participation in the anti-terrorism coalition is mandatory not voluntary."
The voice of Asian newspapers and television stations has gained strength since the world spotlight last fell across this ethnic slice of Britain, in the gulf war. With the current crisis, Prime Minister Tony Blair has wasted little time in courting Asian and Arab journalists, inviting them to briefings, in the hopes they will carry his message back to their communities.
The number of Asian television channels has grown to more than a dozen, from a single station, Zee TV, five years ago, as new technologies make it easier and less costly to transmit news from remote regions. And mainstream media have begun courting the 1.9 million Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi population living in Britain, the largest ethnic minority, according to the National Statistics office.
The Daily Jang has changed since Mr. Niazi joined as a reporter in 1983, when the newspaper was written by hand each day, the work of eight calligraphers. Today, Mr. Niazi downloads files in Urdu from the paper's parent in Karachi, the Jang Group, a large South Asian publishing company.
The editor since 1992, Mr. Niazi has presided over changes in the newspaper that mirror shifts in the wider Pakistani community. The trickle of immigrants from Central Asia is slowing, as jobs in the northern textile mills dry up and new laws make it more difficult for people to seek refuge from political oppression. A growing number of the Daily Jang's readers are second- and third-generation Pakistani, who do not speak their native language. So Mr. Niazi has added more coverage of local British news, and has begun printing a quarter of the newspaper in English.
But even those who have lived most of their lives in England and consider themselves British bristle at the way the Western media are covering the Afghan crisis.
"The Western press are reporting from a very biased angle," said Khesar Ahmad, a 27-year-old management consultant who was born in Pakistan but moved to England when he was 3 years old.
And so, Mr. Niazi said, The Daily Jang is trying to offer an alternative view. He has been to news briefings at No. 10 Downing Street, the Prime Minister's residence, eight times since the conflict erupted, nearly triple the number he had attended in his 18 years at the newspaper. And while he said The Daily Jang would publish Mr. Blair's message "whether we agree with it or not," he also intends to air public opinion that remains distrustful of the West.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zahoor Niazi, editor of The Daily Jang, says he is under pressure to tone down language in articles and letters that might incite violence. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times); The Oct. 22 Daily Jang, an Urdu-language Pakistani newspaper published in Britain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); TERRORISM (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); COLD WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ISLAM; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; CENSORSHIP 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); DAILY JANG (LONDON NEWSPAPER) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); TONY BLAIR (73%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) KAPNER, SUZANNE; NIAZI, ZAHOOR; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1033 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Shame In the House

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
"Ask not what your country can do for you . . ."
 It has been 40 years since John F. Kennedy, standing hatless and coatless in the bitter cold of a snow-covered capital, delivered the lines that turned out to be the most stirring and most famous of his presidency. 
 If you listened closely last week, you could hear an echo of that moment on the Senate floor. On Wednesday morning, in an address to his colleagues, Senator Edward M. Kennedy said: "Now we have seen, perhaps more clearly than ever before in our lives, how we are all in this together -- how if even one of us is hurting, all of us hurt. Our first thoughts on September 11 were about others, not ourselves." 
Senator Kennedy, now 69 years old, spoke movingly of the acts of extraordinary bravery and selflessness exhibited by Americans both at home and abroad in this sudden war against terrorism. And he called on the nation as a whole to adopt that spirit of selflessness as the new standard "by which we measure everything we do."
"The standard is clear," he said. "To seek what is right for our country, and not just for ourselves." He said it is essential that Americans not "strive for private advantage in a time of national need."
Not everyone is listening.
Senator Kennedy's speech was, specifically, a call for fairness and common decency as Congress moves ahead with its effort to help revive an economy that was faltering before Sept. 11, and has since been thrown into very serious trouble by terrorism and war.
But last week, as the House narrowly passed its version of an economic stimulus package, the dominant motive at work appeared once again to be greed. The Republicans who control the House thumbed their noses at the ordinary Americans who will absorb the brunt of the economic downturn and shamelessly gift-wrapped yet another bundle of tax cuts for the very well-to-do.
In Senator Kennedy's words, the House proposal, which contains more than $100 billion in tax cuts for corporations and individuals, "merely repackages old, partisan, unfair, permanent tax breaks -- which were rejected by Congress last spring -- under the new label of economic stimulus. The American people deserve better."
With Americans fighting and dying both at home and abroad, we are understandably in a season of patriotism. That patriotism should not be soiled by wartime profiteering.
The House package is a breathtaking example of cynicism and chutzpah. The bill's primary author, Representative Bill Thomas, a Republican from California, piously proclaimed that there is an urgent need to help businesses because they are the nation's employers. "They're the hardware store," he said, "the diner down the street, the gas station on the corner."
And then you look closely at the legislation and find that it overwhelmingly favors the giant corporations, with tax breaks approaching $1.4 billion for I.B.M., more than $800 million for General Motors and $670 million for General Electric.
It's a stimulus package in name only because the Americans who are the most strapped -- the consumers who would take any relief that they received and immediately pump it right back into the economy -- get the least. The package has very little to do with economic recovery. It's about using the shield of war and economic hard times as a cover for the perpetual task of funneling government largesse to the very rich.
Nearly $2 trillion in tax cuts were passed just a few months ago, but that was not enough. True greed knows no bounds.
The political analyst Kevin Phillips, in a commentary on National Public Radio, said: "Neither house of Congress has ever passed this kind of major tax bill in wartime, and no one in the House assumes that the Senate will accept it in whole. But the more extreme the House bill, the further that will drag the eventual compromise in that same inexcusable direction. The only real solution is a public outcry, tens of millions of pointing fingers and voices saying, 'Shame.' "
Forty years after the inauguration of President Kennedy, the most favored and least needy among us are proving themselves to be masterful at finding what their country can do for them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); TERRORISM (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%) HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1034 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE RECONSTRUCTION; 
A Nascent Effort, Still in Need of a Plan

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Some of the city's most powerful real estate developers, business executives, hotel owners and civic advocates are forming and reforming alliances to plan for the reconstruction of Lower Manhattan in the wake of the World Trade Center disaster.
 Unsure of who will oversee the rebuilding effort, the business leaders, as well as union officials and architects, have at different times -- and sometimes simultaneously -- courted Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Gov. George E. Pataki, Senators Charles Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton as well as the Bush administration. The politicians, in turn, have quietly huddled with their own preferred set of powerful people to talk over what will be the largest urban redevelopment project in American history. 
 But the issue of who will be in charge of rebuilding Lower Manhattan and the city's economy is no clearer today that it was in mid-September. 
"You don't have all the important stakeholders at the same table," said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at City University. "They don't even know where the table is."
The issue is further complicated by the mayor's race and the longstanding friction between the Giuliani and Pataki administrations. The state would rather hold off establishing any kind of downtown commission until after the election on Nov. 6.
Unless something gels soon, civic leaders and downtown landlords say, other companies in Lower Manhattan may join American Express and Lehman Brothers in moving their operations to Midtown, New Jersey or Connecticut, an exodus that would be a devastating blow to the area. They say companies and residential tenants need to be lured back to the area with tax breaks, grants and a plan, with timetables and funding, that inspires confidence in the future of Lower Manhattan.
"You don't have to have 'the' plan," said Harvey Robins, a former aide to Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins. "But you do need a credible leadership, which can help you buy some time and help people feel that their interests will be reflected in this group and the subsequent plan for reconstruction."
A number of names have surfaced in conversations between politicians and business leaders, including Jerry I. Speyer, chairman of Tishman Speyer Properties; Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary who recently became an economic adviser to Mark Green, the Democratic mayoral candidate; and Roland Betts and Thomas Bernstein, the investors who own Chelsea Piers and who are close to President Bush.
The public part of a public-private partnership remains unclear. The continuing friction between Mayor Giuliani and Governor Pataki has been a problem, real estate and business leaders say. The rivalry for credit and control peaked in late September when city officials tried to go around the Pataki administration and set up their own meeting with the White House to discuss federal aid. But according to city and state officials, White House officials invited state officials to the Sept. 24 gathering, where the White House officials chastised the city, saying that New York had to speak with one voice, and made it clear that federal money would flow through the state.
That quelled Mayor Giuliani's effort to set up a commission controlled by the city. Governor Pataki seemed to take a step forward on Oct. 9 when he unveiled a $54 billion proposal to rebuild New York that called for using federal aid to balance the state budget, pay for a wide array of transportation projects in Manhattan and elsewhere and to provide tax breaks for tenants downtown. But the proposal had a kitchen-sink quality to it that met immediate resistance in Washington.
"It landed like a lead balloon down there," said one person who advised the state.
So there are now a variety of lobbying efforts. The Giuliani administration is lobbying Congress for its own scaled-down version of the state proposal, while Senators Schumer and Clinton have been meeting with the Real Estate Board of New York and the New York City Partnership to develop a modest $5 billion financial plan.
At the same time, the real estate industry, the partnership and the city's construction unions are forming a lobbying alliance that includes Henry Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis, Hank Greenberg of the insurance giant A.I.G., Gene McGrath of Con Edison and Bill Harrison of Chase. According to several developers involved in the effort, the Real Estate Board is asking for help from Mr. Betts and Mr. Bernstein, who had been co-owners with President Bush of the Texas Rangers baseball team.
"It's an attempt to resurrect the same kind of business-labor initiative that helped us get through the fiscal crisis in the 1970's," said Kathryn Wylde of the partnership.
That effort, however, does not include the Regional Plan Association and other civic organizations that have formed their own coalitions. "Obviously, everybody thinks they're the best equipped to recommend what the governor and the mayor should do," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board. "We believe we represent the people most affected, the owners and the tenants. When you add the Alliance for Downtown New York and labor, that's it."
According to one senior state official, the Pataki administration believes there is little demand for new office construction today, but there is a need for a Second Avenue subway and a transportation terminal near Fulton Street that would link subways, the PATH trains and a newly built Long Island Rail Road station.
"It is my view that one of the main components is going to be infrastructure or transportation projects, which are essential for a revitalized and healthy downtown," said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation.
Sandy Weill, chairman of Citigroup, provided an indication of the problem during an Oct. 5 meeting of business leaders with Governor Pataki. Speaking by telephone, according to four people who attended the meeting, Mr. Weill suggested that the trade center be replaced by a baseball stadium, because there was no longer a need for so much office space.
Mr. Weill explained that the financial industry had too many people concentrated in Lower Manhattan.
Governor Pataki is considering creating a subsidiary of the Empire State Development Corporation as the authority that would oversee the downtown reconstruction projects, according to state officials and others involved in the negotiations. The authority would have a six-member board, with the state, the city and the Port Authority each getting two appointments and veto power. The idea has been floated to the Mark Green campaign, which appeared receptive, people close to the talks said.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey owns the 16-acre trade center site and runs the PATH rail system.
The Pataki administration is working closely with a small group of corporate executives headed by Mr. Speyer and Mr. Weill, as well as Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association. The association, a private planning organization, is putting together a "civic initiative" by 75 groups to develop some conceptual plans for the trade center site and a memorial to the people who died there.
Larry Silverstein, the developer who had taken control of the World Trade Center last August in a $3.2 billion deal with the Port Authority, and Brookfield Financial Properties, which controls World Financial Center, hired David Childs, an architect, and Alex Cooper, a planner, to develop plans for redesigning the office buildings and the surrounding area.
"We want to be a player in a process yet to be outlined of rebuilding Lower Manhattan," said John Zuccotti, chairman of Brookfield. "We're not going to do it, but we want to be an informed player."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Rubin, who recently agreed to advise Mark Green. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); MAYORS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRORISM (74%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); HISTORY (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%) BANERJEE, NEELA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (74%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA; GULF OF MEXICO; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001 



1035 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: An Appraisal: A Crystal Beacon Atop a 20's Curiosity; 
Shimmering Tower on Eighth Avenue To Complete Hearst's Headquarters

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
The issue is not how tall a skyscraper should be but whether it's worth the space it takes up on the ground. Norman Foster's design for the new Hearst Corporation headquarters is brilliant. The design is a work of architecture, not a piece of real estate. It helps clarify the distinction between the two. And it will reveal to disbelieving eyes that architecture is still a possibility in New York. The skyline has been waiting for this.
 Lord Foster's design is a parabuilding: a new addition that transforms the character of an existing structure. The host building in this case is Hearst's present home at 959 Eighth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets. The parabuilding is a faceted tower of steel and glass that rises 42 stories above the host. Herein lies a historical curiosity. The existing building, completed in 1928, was originally designed as the base of a taller structure. Now that goal will be handsomely fulfilled. Praise be to deferred intentions. 
 The building is a designated New York City landmark. Plans for the new design will be filed today with the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission. The design is also subject to an approval process that will postpone the start of construction until 2003. Hearst officials declined to estimate the cost. Lord Foster, who was awarded the Pritzker Prize for architecture in 1999, designed the Great Court of the British Museum and the reconstruction of the Reichstag in Berlin as the new home of the German Parliament.
Originally called the International Magazine Building, the present six-story headquarters was designed by Joseph Urban and George Post. It is a peculiar pastiche. As envisioned by Hearst, it was intended as a hinge between the Broadway theater district and a new cultural center, anchored by the Metropolitan Opera House, then planned for Columbus Circle. 
Urban, himself a hybrid of architect and stage designer, should have been an ideal choice to bridge the two areas. The result, however, was leaden. With its boxy shape, stumpy elevation and Art Deco ornament, and with concrete walls molded into fake stone blocks, this could be the Depression-era Medical Arts Building of a faded Midwestern downtown. The urn-tipped columns are ominous. The tips might sprout mouths and turn into steam whistles: feeding time for the Morlochs, deep underground.
Lord Foster's tower is a descendant of a building that has influenced the modern Manhattan skyline more than any other: Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace. Coincidentally, Paxton's temporary structure was completed 150 years ago. Originally erected in Hyde Park in London for what would turn out to be the first world's fair, the Crystal Palace introduced the large-scale use of metal and glass prefabricated construction. The public loved it.
Architects and critics, however, refused to recognize the Crystal Palace as architecture at all. Paxton was not an architect, his method was based on greenhouse design, and critical opinion insisted on a distinction between engineering, like bridges and train sheds, and architecture, then based on the manipulation of period styles. In due course 20th-century architects sided with the Victorian public in recognizing the aesthetic properties of metal and glass construction. The modern office tower was born. Lord Foster's design recapitulates that birth. Mother here is Urban's host building. Baby is huge.
In elevation the design breaks down into four segments. The bottom two floors of the Urban building -- the base of the base -- will retain its existing program: main entrance and lobby on Eighth Avenue, shops along the street, subway connection in one corner. From here escalators will rise to a new main lobby at the third-floor level. The lobby, a column-free space, with ceilings that rise from 40 to 70 feet, has been conceived as a town square. It is enclosed on three sides by "buildings" formed from the upper floors of the existing building. These have been surgically reduced, retaining only the window-studded facades.
A solid glass clerestory surmounts the masonry facades. The tower is inserted into the base like a glass square peg in a solid square hole. Through the clerestory, pedestrians can see the bottom floor of the tower and the V-shaped columns that support it. The "town square" lobby inhabits the space beneath the bottom floor. The handling of this juncture is the key to the design.
The tower is supported by a perimeter "diagrad" system of steel triangular frames that form a structural tube. Stainless steel clads the exterior of the tube. Four office floors are supported by each frame. The triangular shape creates facets along the corners of the tower. In changing light, sparkle, shade and reflections will play across the entire shaft.
None of that phony-baloney skyscraper-crown stuff here, thank you. Instead, the building tapers at the top, in accord with the structural system, forming an organic pinnacle. Since the service space here does require coverage, the rooftop will capture sunlight. At night artificial lighting will intensify the beacon effect.
Now. Just what is it that makes architecture so different, so appealing? Integrity, we used to call it way back when. Meaning: in architecture, there should be a conceptual relationship between the parts and the whole. As in other Foster projects, the relationship here is relatively easy to grasp. It revolves around the correspondence between structure and form, the concept that 20th-century Modernists picked up from Paxton and turned into an urban tradition.
Many architects have felt restrained by that tradition. In the 1960's Robert Venturi's conception of the building as a "decorated shed" came as a liberation to one and all. If only more architects had known what to do with that freedom, this would be a wonderful town. And I do not mean to suggest that the modern idea of integrity was upheld either consistently or to noble purpose in the years when it ruled design.
Often it was violated to great effect. Eero Saarinen's T.W.A. terminal at Kennedy International Airport, for example, was denounced by purists because the smooth concrete surfaces of the roof belied the vast amount of steel it took to hold it up. Nonetheless the building's integrity was manifested in the relationship of its forms and spaces, its interior and exterior, and in the procession through its three-dimensional imagery. The possibilities for integrity are limited only by the mind's capacity to hold unity and complexity together.
That is the capacity that distinguishes architecture from real estate. If only more architects had it, my life would be a joy. On the other hand they might be unemployed. Real estate, of the genre that's likely to multiply in lower Manhattan, represents a substantial investment against integrity. It operates by dividing the whole into disconnected parts.
I hesitate to declare Lord Foster's design a recall to order. We're going to hear all too many recalls to order in the security state years ahead. But a recall to integrity of all stripes, that I can salute.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Norman Foster's design for the new Hearst Corporation headquarters would top a base built in 1928 with a tower indebted to the Crystal Palace, inset, of 1851. (Foster & Partners); (Culver Photos) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (75%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); APPROVALS (66%); THEATER (63%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (63%) ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH MUSEUM (54%) HEARST CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; FOSTER, NORMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1036 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: ROCK REVIEW; 
Mixing It Up For Causes Downtown

BYLINE:  By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
New York City has two distinct versions of downtown: the financial capital where the twin towers of the World Trade Center stood until Sept. 11, and the hotbed of free-thinking arts. The Beastie Boys, representing the second downtown, organized a benefit for the first downtown with two sold-out shows Sunday and last night at the Hammerstein Ballroom under the rubric New Yorkers Against Violence. Proceeds went to the New York Women's Foundation and the New York Association for New Americans, which helps recent immigrants, including undocumented victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 In the bohemian downtown spirit, Sunday's six-hour concert displayed eclecticism and urban connections: hip-hop, post-punk rock, new wave party songs, Japanese women rapping and something that has been rare at post-attack events: Islamic music. Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, from Pakistan, sang qawwali songs -- Sufi devotional music -- that worked up from straightforward melodies to swooping, raw-voiced improvisations, with him spitting out notes as fast as his drummer could rebound them. It was rocking, ecstatic music, far from the Taliban's ascetic Islam. 
 The night's political speech was by Benjamin R. Barber, author of "Jihad vs. McWorld," who said, "We cannot win the war against terrorism by force and by bombs alone." Ignoring chants of "U.S.A.!," he called for a world "where global capitalism doesn't mean opportunity for some and suffering for many and hopelessness for many more."
The musicians made more ambivalent comments. "I don't think anybody should be afraid to, like, speak out against violence right now," said Sean Lennon before he introduced his mother, Yoko Ono. She spoke about music helping people survive a state of siege and sang one of her wordless, shrieking, glottal-stopping abstract vocalizations. 
Little of the music was topical; the audience came for a good time. The Beastie Boys themselves romped through songs from their recent albums, which touched on various social concerns -- respect for women, tax money for health care, Buddhist ideals of nonviolence -- but mostly touted the Boys themselves and their superb disc jockey, Mixmaster Mike, who kept the tracks behind the rappers changing from verse to verse. The B-52's made their stand for hedonism, knocking out their asymmetrical, new-wave boogies about kisses, interplanetary excursions and imaginary dance crazes.
The Strokes, a New York band that has just released its debut album, "Is That It" (RCA), played a concisely overpowering set. The band sums up an entire school of clean-lined New York rock that turns minimal elements into rock universals, from the Velvet Underground through 1970's Iggy Pop (a Detroit expatriate) through the Feelies (who were actually from New Jersey).
Fast-strummed guitar chords make a glassy wall of harmony over brisk, unyielding drums; the band's singer and songwriter, Julian Casablancas, has the dry voice of someone nursing an emotional hangover, jaded but still exposed. The songs were about fractured relationships and identity crises -- "alone we stand, together we fall apart" -- but determined, insistent guitars and grand crescendos provided the certainty the characters never had. 
Saul Williams, a poet, declaimed and sang about the responsibility of artists to uplift the world's consciousness and built a song around the social critic Albert Murray's term, Omni-Americans. He was backed by a hard-rock band that jammed its way into a neo-psychedelic stomp and wail. 
Cibo Matto juxtaposed the gentle singing and rapping of Miho Hatori and Yuka Honda against earthy, danceable funk and rock from an eight-piece band. It performed its old, lighthearted songs about the sensuality of food alongside the Guns N' Roses urban taunt "Welcome to the Jungle" and "Sci-Fi Wasabi," which mentions New York City's "economic duality."
Events had given an unplanned jolt to the songs of Rival Schools, a new band including members from Quicksand and Civ, two of New York's stalwart post-punk bands. Rival Schools has streaks of Jane's Addiction dissonance and U2 reverberations in songs that churn and surge behind Walter Schreifels's high, frazzled voice. Singing about self-doubt and volatile romance, he also seemed to be blurting out some of New York's clashing responses to Sept. 11: "Lost it all again to start over/try to rout it then." While downtown has never been a unified state of mind, those sentiments wouldn't find many dissenters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WOMEN (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); RELIGION (88%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); TALIBAN (76%); POP & ROCK (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); RECORD RELEASES (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%) MUSIC; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ASSOCIATION FOR NEW AMERICANS INC (57%) BEASTIE BOYS (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: PARELES, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1037 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: More Dispiriting Reports on Japanese Economy 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Japan's teetering economy got another dose of bad news today in the form of weak production figures, and the Bank of Japan released a half-year forecast that predicted no letup in the gloom. More unpleasant statistics are expected on Tuesday.
 Industrial output in Japan was a stark 12.7 percent lower in September 2001 than in September 2000, and fell 2.9 percent from August, the government said today. The month-to-month falloff was twice as steep as executives surveyed before the Sept. 11 attacks expected, suggesting that Japan's economy is cooling off as fast as the United States economy is. 
 As output, capital spending and exports all retreat, blue-chip companies like Fujitsu, and Mitsubishi Electric are cutting jobs, closing factories and slashing wages. Weaker companies are being dropped from life-support by the country's banks, which wrote off about 1.8 trillion yen ($15 billion) in nonperforming loans in the half-year just ended.
With short-term interest rates already near zero and the government reluctant to spend more to whet demand, the Bank of Japan said in its forecast that "it seems inevitable that Japan's economy will continue to experience severe adjustment."
The bank expects Japan's economy, the second largest after that of the United States, to contract as much as 1.2 percent in the year ending March 31, 2002, and slip another 0.5 percent the next year, with no reappearance of growth before September. The bank also expects consumer prices to fall 1 percent this year and another 1 percent next year, further eroding consumer spending and corporate profits.
"The bottom line is, these numbers are bleak," said Chris Walker, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston in Tokyo. "A lot of people say bleak things, but this is the central bank, after all."
Worryingly, the Bank of Japan held the government responsible for most of Japan's woes, signaling that the bank is unwilling to take further steps of its own to rekindle growth. While making note of the economic fallout, the bank said that it was nevertheless "indispensable to make progress in structural reform," referring to accelerated write-offs of bad bank loans, now often criticized as overly harsh medicine at a time of such economic weakness.
In recent weeks, legislators from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party have shot back, calling on the central bank to set an inflation target and buy more government debt to stimulate growth. Some have even called for the laws governing the central bank to be rewritten.
While politicians argue, the private sector continues to retrench. Automakers reduced production 1.8 percent in September from a year earlier, according to industry figures, with Nissan Motor and Mitsubishi Motors making the largest cuts.
Chip makers, too, are feeling the pinch. NEC said last week that 9,000 of its employees would each take one day of unpaid leave a month through the end of the year. Toshiba, whose sales fell 11 percent in the first half of the fiscal year, announced its third wave of spending cuts since April.
The cutbacks foreshadow further trouble ahead. In a Kyodo News survey of 100 executives, all were pessimistic, and 94 said they thought the economy was "receding."
Households, an economic mainstay until now, are catching the gloom. Consumer spending, 60 percent of the economy, has not deteriorated as fast as other measures, mainly because prices are falling as fast as wages, leaving purchasing power about the same. But consumer confidence is at a three-year low. 
A new picture of Japanese consumers is expected on Tuesday, when employment and household-spending figures are released.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Output In Decline"Japanese vehicle production and the country's overall industry production have decreased this year. Graphs track the industrial production and vehicle production year-over-year change in 2000 and 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FUJITSU LTD (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (56%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 7211 (TSE) (56%); 7201 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1038 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The dollar fell on concern that government reports this week will show that the United States economy is shrinking. In New York, the euro settled at 90.32 cents, up from 89.22 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since May 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1039 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Student Designers Undaunted by the Prospects 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY 

 BODY:
BEFORE it was clear to her that "you only have so much time on earth, so you had better spend it doing what you love," Diane Reeves sold computers for Dell. Ms. Reeves's clients were mostly corporate health care centers. She had a degree from the University of Texas, a husband, a young son, a house and a career that many might envy. So it came as a considerable surprise to those close to her when Ms. Reeves decided a year ago to quit her job, pick up stakes and move to New York to become, of all things, a fashion designer. 
 "I made huge sacrifices for this," Ms. Reeves said last week, as she pulled up a stool in Brigitte Conti's sewing class at Parsons School of Design, where Ms. Reeves, 35, was beginning the first term in a two-year program that grants Associate of Arts degrees in fashion. 
 "I dragged a husband and a child from Texas," Ms. Reeves said with a grin and an expression that was far from resigned. "And I'm looking for jobs now with salaries that are equal to my bonus at Dell."
Few professions, it would seem, registered the mass cultural chastening that followed the events of Sept. 11 as sharply as fashion. As early as last spring, economists were making it plain that the retailing outlook for the foreseeable future was grim. "It's tough now," said Kal Ruttenstein, the fashion director of Bloomingdale's. "There are not a lot of new companies opening up. Established companies are not hiring. It's a tough moment for kids to find work in fashion in America." 
zap 
Following the terrorist attacks, the same words and concepts that were once celebrated so lavishly turned up as pejorative terms: ostentation, frivolity, luxury, chic. Who needs those? 
"It seemed so frighteningly fateful that everything happened during Fashion Week," the designer Cynthia Rowley remarked last week. "It was like a call to attention that the glamour, the celebrity, the fame and the hype had gotten out of control. Our priorities were wrong." 
What were those priorities? Were they to sign on to a system that, as the designer John Bartlett recently said, "has gotten distorted to the point where all we've been seeing are the megadesigners and megamodels and everyone's ambition is to be mega?" Or is it equally possible that the expectations many people in fashion hold were already pointing toward simpler, more straightforward aims, fueled by traditional dreams?
Together with the Fashion Institute of Technology, also in Manhattan, Parsons is the pre-eminent incubator of design talent in the country. The alumni roster of the school, which was founded in 1896, includes many of those people in fashion who can be identified by a single name. Donna went to Parsons. So did Calvin, Tom, Isaac and Marc, to name just a few. 
It is easy enough, and understandable, to buy into cliches suggesting that most people who spend $20,000 a year in tuition at Parsons hope to forge big fashion careers, the kind that include one's name branded on the waistband of men's underpants, a heavily capitalized initial public offering, or at the very least a special on E! "More and more, it seems when I've done critiques" of students' work at fashion schools over the past few years, the designer Anna Sui said, "I've found that students were focusing only on money. You'd get the sense that they thought designers spent their days draping beautiful fabric on mannequins, sketching and then having lunch with their supermodel friends." 
But well before September, some fashion insiders say, the tenor of the business was already undergoing change. "What I started telling kids," Mr. Bartlett said, "is that the most creative thing is open a small storefront, where you can keep your costs low and it's much more hands-on." 
Writing to Ingrid Bergman, the filmmaker Jean Renoir once noted that the real basis for great achievement "is daily, humble work within the framework of a profession." Among the surprises a visitor to Parsons School of Design recently encountered is how many of its students came to fashion for reasons that would seem familiar to Mr. Renoir.
Before his arrival at Parsons from his native Thailand, Werawat Lungvedchakarn had already obtained a business degree in Bangkok and worked for a time as an accountant at one of his family's drugstores. 
"My brother is a physician," Mr. Lungvedchakarn explained. "My sister is a pharmacist. My family wanted me to go into the business, but it was like I was forcing myself. I tried, but it was not me. I came to do fashion because it satisfies my passion and my dreams."
Fiona Angelini, a student from Australia, quit a decade-long international career in the cosmetics industry, six of the years spent as a senior marketing executive at Revlon, to take up fashion studies at Parsons. 
"Eighteen months ago, I just said, 'This is not filling my soul,' " Ms. Angelini said. "I was a workaholic before, but I work harder at this than I ever have in my life." 
Jessica Mehta wangled a student visa and special loans to come to New York from India. Joanne Abellera left law school fully aware that "people look down on fashion, especially now, and feel it's frivolous, but I was very unfulfilled and this is the way to feel most creative for me."
At a social and psychic level, Thuy Diep, who is of Vietnamese origin, decided that fashion was less about sound bites and air time than deep psychic comfort. "People think of clothes as unimportant," Ms. Diep said, when of course the act of clothing oneself is "an important expression of art."
"Typically, the students here are the kind of kids who, in high school, if their parents said, 'What do you want to do?' and they said, 'Fashion,' they'd have said, 'You're crazy,' " explained Pamela Trough Klein, the director of Parsons' fashion program, which has 470 students enrolled. "We've had kids from Wharton. We had a guy who was a prosecutor in New Orleans. They come because they have to. They love design."
Lately, Mr. Ruttenstein said, while some in fashion found themselves questioning the purpose of fashion, its creative and commercial viability, others have held tight to optimism. 
"It's nice to think that things will change," Mr. Ruttenstein said, "that things will get better and people will be willing to gamble more and adventuresome talent will be hired again."
Ms. Angelini, for one, was overcome in September with a conviction that there were few things the world needed less than another person's concept for a pretty dress. "I was numb," Ms. Angelini said. "I couldn't do any of it. 
"But little by little, the desire came back, the ideas returned and they had a voice. In this business, whatever the economic climate, whatever the world events, the only thing you can hope for is that yours is a voice that people will want to hear."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brigitte Conti, center of group, with students in beginners' sewing class at Parsons School of Design, which has produced many a big name.; Ms. Conti, with Joanne Abellera, center, and Nery Collado, students, among those pursuing their dreams in a changing industry.; Werawat Lungvedchakarn left Thailand and the family business, for fashion. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); Donna Karan, left, who went to Parsons, teaching there early in her career. (The Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Archives Center,Parsons School of Design); Anna Sui, another Parsons graduate, on the runway in spring 1999. (Reuters); Marc Jacobs, also a Parsons alumnus, s honored at the VH1/Vogue Fashion Awards. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); FASHION SHOWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TERRORISM (65%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) APPAREL 

COMPANY: CYNTHIA ROWLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%) PARSONS SCHOOL OF DESIGN 

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (52%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (54%) TREBAY, GUY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1040 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Shed a Tear For Scalpers On Broadway

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
AT long last, we have a bit of economic good news in New York City. Broadway has discovered capitalism.
 The producers of "The Producers" are about to start offering 50 premium seats each performance for $480 apiece. That's a little less than the typical free-market price being charged by scalpers, but it's a big jump from the current top price at the box office, $100. 
 The show could take in an extra $120,000 per week, much of it from out-of-town visitors and corporations. These customers would ordinarily be patronizing ticket brokers who operate in New Jersey and Connecticut to avoid New York's law against ticket scalping. Once these theatergoers' money goes directly to Broadway instead of the suburbs, New York's economy and tax coffers will benefit.
There would be more benefits if the producers of other hit shows raised their prices, which would seem logical. But one should never expect logic from Broadway, as I've discovered in a lonely decadelong crusade for a free market in tickets. The same people forever whining about the death of the theater are the ones appalled at the notion of keeping it alive with money from paying customers.
Broadway producers and theater owners have long insisted that it would be a public-relations disaster to charge market prices for their hottest tickets, because the public would start assuming that theater is unaffordable. But selling a few high-priced tickets for sports events and concerts has not scared off the average fans -- it has just given them new appreciation for the many cheaper tickets that are still available. 
There are still $31 tickets to "The Producers," and there will always be good discount seats available on Broadway for shows past their prime. If you think every American has an inalienable right to buy orchestra tickets to "The Producers" for under $100, don't worry: eventually we will all have a chance to get them at the TKTS booth. 
Then why have theater owners and producers been so reluctant to sell a few high-priced tickets today? Perhaps because capitalist principles have been suppressed on Broadway by other forces: 
Shame. Pricing tickets according to market demand would provide customers with an instant ranking of shows' popularity. Theatergoers would see the best seats at "The Producers" fetching $480, followed perhaps by "The Lion King" and "Mamma Mia!" at $200 to $300, followed by everyone else all the way down to maybe $25.
It would be the theatrical equivalent of the sales ranking on Amazon.com, which provides an author with the mortifying knowledge that his masterpiece ranks precisely 286,593rd. No director wants to feel that shame, and no producer wants the audience to realize that they are at the 29th most popular show on Broadway. 
Bribery. When hot tickets are priced way below their market value, anyone with access to those tickets can profit. The most obvious beneficiaries are box-office employees who take bribes for choice seats, but a lot of other insiders can reap tax-free benefits by selling tickets to scalpers. 
Cronyism. The most vocal critics of a free market in tickets have tended to be politicians and journalists, who are used to special access to the best seats. They may pay the face value of the ticket, but they're essentially getting a gift, because the market value is much higher. To them, the system is working fine as is.
ANOTHER vocal critic is Isabelle Stevenson, the chairwoman of the American Theater Wing, which founded the Tony Awards, whose dismay at the $480 tickets was quoted in Saturday's paper. "Shame!" she said. "Shame on not caring about helping make theater more available." 
But charging market prices for some seats does makes theater more available -- to the kind of people who did not get tickets to opening night of "The Producers," as Ms. Stevenson did. Now that these outsiders are being given a shot at buying their way into "The Producers," other shows may decide to stop giving away their best seats to insiders. And the more tickets that are made available at market prices, the lower those prices will go. 
Suburban brokers have been getting $700 for some of the few good "Producers" tickets that are now available, but those prices may not last after hundreds of new tickets hit the market every week. In fact, some suburban brokers are already wondering how long the $480 price will hold. Broadway may just be learning capitalism, but the brokers know that the laws of supply and demand apply even to Mel Brooks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TICKET AGENCIES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%) THEATER; TICKET SCALPING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: PRODUCERS, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1041 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Isn't as Easy as Falling Off a Horse 

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER 

 BODY:
It has been three months since Frankie Ferrara was set on fire. It has been just as long since he was flung from a window, punched in the face or run down by a speeding car.
 John Cenatiempo hasn't driven off a bridge since summer, and it's starting to show. He seems a little antsy and orders that extra Scotch at the bar these days. After all, it's been three months. 
 The only thing a stuntman wants more than a good steak dinner after an easy landing is a calendar filled with shooting schedules and well-paid jobs. The stuntman's credo is a simple one: When I fall, dear Lord, please don't let the cellphone break.
Recently, though, there have been fewer and fewer calls from Hollywood producers to the nervous corps of New York City's stuntmen. Because of last month's terrorist attacks, the moguls have shied away from car chases, pyrotechnics, skyjackings and blood, and the men who break their bones making the movie stars look good are starting to feel some pain.
"We deal with explosions and violence primarily, and that's all been pulled way back," said Mr. Ferrara, a stuntman with a side-of-beef torso and hands as thick as telephone books. "The last time I worked was in August, and it's been devastating ever since. Thank God we get residuals, or else I'd really be sucking wind."
Action movies are a stuntman's bread and butter -- not to mention his steak, his potatoes, his salad and his dessert -- and since the tragedy of Sept. 11, several thrillers have been scrubbed from production slates or put on indefinite hold. The studios, for instance, have not released Arnold Schwarzenegger's "Collateral Damage," about a fireman whose family is killed in a terrorist strike. The Tim Allen comedy "Big Trouble," which involves a bomb on an airplane, has also been shelved for the foreseeable future.
Though some feature films and television shows like "Law and Order" have slowly resumed production in New York, the men who specialize in on-screen mayhem have taken a tremendous hit. Recently, a group of them gathered for dinner at a steakhouse in Gramercy Park to drown their sorrows in sauteed spinach and peppered beef. The conversation ranged from firefighters to fireballs to figuring out what to do now that Hollywood is temporarily disinclined to blow things up.
"It's been totally dead," said Danny Aiello Jr., who has worked on movies like "Diehard III" and "Cop Land." "It's been driving me crazy. As a stuntman and a stunt coordinator, I've had absolutely nothing to do."
Mr. Aiello, in fact, has been spending time playing basketball and golf and working for his new charity, World Trade Aid, which gives scholarships to the sons and daughters of those who died in the trade center attack. Mr. Ferrara has been loving his children and working on his home in southern Brooklyn. Pete Bucossi, another stuntman, got a part-time job as the stunt coordinator on the soap opera "All My Children" a few weeks ago. The most alarming stunt he has arranged so far is showing one actor how to grab another actor's tie.
The images from the trade center catastrophe -- the orange blossoms of flame, the smoking piles of rubble -- are frighteningly familiar to the professional daredevils who spend their days sweating it out among celluloid disaster. Nevertheless, they said, the pyrotechnics of the attack looked far too stagy. They have seen things go boom on screen before, and it didn't look like that. "It actually looked fake," Mr. Aiello said. 
These men live with fear like others live with a nagging head cold. Their wives tell them to be careful every morning before they head off to work to bruise their bodies. Now, the admonitions have a darker undertone, they say.
And the stuntmen are in awe of the firefighters who rushed into the buildings without a second thought to get the victims out. 
"People say we're crazy because we jump from burning buildings, but at least we know where the fire's been set ahead of time," Mr. Aiello said. "These guys go in blind and show no fear. We're not crazy. They're the crazy ones." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Starr, left, John Cenatiempo, Frankie Ferrara and Pete Bucossi, stuntmen, are finding jobs scarce. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); TERRORISM (88%); FILM (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); RESTAURANTS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (75%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); AIRLINES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); BASKETBALL (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MOTION PICTURES; LABOR 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (53%) FEUER, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1042 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Argentina May Restructure Its Debt, Risking Default 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Argentine bond and stock prices fell sharply yesterday after the country's economy minister indicated that he wanted to voluntarily restructure Argentina's billions of dollars in public-sector debt, including that owned by foreigners.
 Such a move acknowledged how much more serious the country's financial crisis is. The economic slowdown around the world after the terrorist attack on America is just deepening a recession in Argentina that already is more than three years old. And there are fewer and fewer spending cuts the country can make so that it can meet its interest and principal payments. 
 But some analysts argue that the effort to restructure the debt, although necessary to reduce the country's debt burden, could lead to a default. Some major credit agencies have said that even a voluntary restructuring of Argentina's debt would lead them to give the debt a default rating. But it is not clear if a voluntary restructuring would qualify as a legal default. Some analysts argue that it would not.
The news sent Argentine bonds prices down as much as 14 percent while yields on one benchmark bond soared to 45 percent. The yield on an index of Argentine bonds jumped to almost 20 percent points over comparable United States Treasury securities. The local stock market index, the Merval, plunged 8.76 percent.
Delays in new economic policy announcements from the government also made investors nervous yesterday, as did the resignation of Argentina's undersecretary of finance. Some analysts interpreted his resignation as a sign of disagreement within the government over how to resolve the country's debt problems.
Domingo Cavallo, the economy minister, acknowledged the new effort to manage the debt in an interview with the local newspaper La Nacion. Mr. Cavallo said that he wanted an "integral solution" to the country's debt problem "as soon as possible," according to a translation by BNP Paribas. But he emphasized that he wanted such restructuring to be voluntary, adding that he did not like the word restructure because it seemed to imply coercion.
The newspaper also said that Mr. Cavallo had been working with Jacob Frenkel, a former top official of the International Monetary Fund and a former governor of the Bank of Israel. Mr. Frenkel is now the president of Merrill Lynch International.
A Merrill spokesman said nothing had been formalized with Argentina but confirmed there had been discussions about hiring Mr. Frenkel and Merrill.
Argentina has about $132 billion in public-sector debt, of which about $70 billion is in global bonds. Mr. Cavallo indicated that he wanted to swap this old, high-interest-rate debt for new securities that have a lower interest rate. He did not say how he would entice investors into such a swap, but indicated that Argentina would be better able to guarantee that the principle and interest would be paid.
Several analysts said that such a big swap, or restructuring, of debt would be hard to accomplish voluntarily. If it provided any major relief for Argentina from its burden of interest and principle payments it might turn out to be a very unattractive swap for investors. "If you do an exercise that massive on favorable terms, the chances that you will be successful with a voluntary restructuring is not very high," said Jose M. Barrionuevo, director of emerging markets strategy and economics at BNP Paribas.
Mr. Cavallo had been working on a swap of old debt for new, lower-interest debt with local banks and pension funds and apparently still wants to include this debt in any swap.
But some top credit rating agencies said that they would view such a swap as a default, even if voluntary.
In a statement on Oct. 16, Standard & Poor's said it regarded the completions of a debt exchange "as tantamount to a default -- if the total value of the securities or cash offered is materially less than the originally contracted amount (even though it may be greater than the current depressed market value of the debt)."
S.& P. now rates Argentine sovereign debt a CCC+, which reflects a high probability default. D is the default rating.
On the other hand, many long-time analysts in the emerging market bond business view voluntary swaps of debt as a way to avoid default. "If an exchange is done in a voluntary manner that would not constitute a default," said Desmond Lachman, director of emerging markets economic research at Salomon smith Barney.
In June, Argentina swapped about $30 billion of debt that delayed current interest payments in exchange for high interest in the future and it was not a default.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders reacted as stock prices plunged yesterday on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange after Argentina's economy minister indicated that he wanted to voluntarily restructure the nation's public-sector debt. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); GOVERNORS (51%) CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEFAULTING; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (53%); BANK OF ISRAEL (52%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; CAVALLO, DOMINGO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1043 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Mayoral Rivals Wage Close Battle of Generations 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
While the events of Sept. 11 may have led to a spirit of bipartisanship in Washington, this city's mayoral candidates, both Democrats, are locked in a bitter generational battle that is one of the closest races here in decades.
 Kwame M. Kilpatrick, 31, the minority leader of the State House and the son of a congresswoman, is vying to be the city's youngest mayor since 1933. He is an affable former star Florida A&M tackle prone to getting in trouble for speaking his mind. 
 His opponent, Gil Hill, 69, the City Council president, is a spirited, folksy former homicide detective best known for a brush with Hollywood; in the "Beverly Hills Cop" movies, he played the scenery-chewing Detroit boss of Eddie Murphy. 
Mr. Kilpatrick won the Sept. 11 nonpartisan primary by about 16 percentage points, outpolling 20 other candidates. Polls since have shown that his lead over Mr. Hill in the Nov. 6 election is in the single digits.
That politics as usual continues here is not a surprise. For Detroit, the biggest issue has not changed: the economy was in bad shape before Sept. 11. Now, it is worse.
"This is a hard city to scare," said Rodney Stewart, a 59-year-old electrician. "It's a working man's town. What scares people most around here is the economy."
David Littman, chief economist of Comerica Bank, warned. "If U.S. unemployment rates move to 5 percent, which I expect, Detroit's will be 11 plus." 
The Big Three automakers all reported net losses in the third quarter, aggravated by bleak September sales, by parts shortages due to the shutdown of air traffic and border slowdowns, and by a price war that has driven up sales but threatened profits. It has not helped that Northwest Airlines, which has a hub here, has laid off 10,000 workers. 
"When the American economy sneezes," Mr. Hill said, "Detroit gets pneumonia." 
Dennis W. Archer, Detroit's departing mayor, said the city's budget would have to be cut by 5 percent, or about $60 million, to avoid a deficit.
Mr. Archer's eight years in office came after two decades under Mayor Coleman A. Young and his formidable political machine, a time when whites, and then middle-class blacks, left the city for the suburbs. The city's population fell from more than two million in the 1950's to less than one million in the 2000 census. 
Mr. Archer, who plans to run for the presidency of the American Bar Association, repaired relations between the suburbs and Detroit and brought big-ticket items downtown like G.M.'s headquarters and Comerica Park, the stadium of the Detroit Tigers.
But there is still much to do. Crime and drugs remain a problem. Abandoned buildings can be seen in many neighborhoods, and street lights work only intermittently.
"I live in Palmer Woods, one of the nicer neighborhoods, and our street lights don't work," said Mario Morrow, an independent political consultant and analyst. "My mother takes the bus and checks the schedules, but the buses don't go by the schedules." 
"Some of the streets are in shambles," Mr. Morrow added. "It'll tear your car up going down the street."
Mr. Kilpatrick wants to consolidate the city's 43 agencies without cutting the work force and expand small-business development. And, while recent debate in the city has focused on casino development, he believes it is more significant that Compuware, a software company, has decided to move its headquarters to Detroit.
Mr. Hill's focus has been more meat and potatoes. Fixing basic services to stem middle-class flight is more important than any digital revolution, he has said.
Mr. Kilpatrick grew up on the campaign trail. His mother is Representative Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick, and his father, Bernard Kilpatrick, is a former county commissioner. 
But despite his political roots, his candor makes consultants wince. He angered lawmakers from other parts of the state when he referred to Michigan as "the Mississippi of the North" over the state government's treatment of Detroit. He angered gay and lesbian groups when he said on a local television show that he did not want his sons "even seeing that type of lifestyle." 
A recent advertisement by Hill supporters had Mr. Kilpatrick, who has been criticized for accepting money from a group that runs homeless shelters, quip: "We tried to get a check from Mother Teresa. She wasn't writing checks." 
Mr. Kilpatrick struck back with commercials criticizing Mr. Hill's City Council record and his tenure as the city's top homicide inspector, recalling a quotation from a magazine in which Mr. Hill said, "I was a mediocre inspector, at best."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gil Hill, 69, left, and Kwame M. Kilpatrick, 31, are in a bitter struggle to succeed Mayor Dennis W. Archer in one of the closest mayoral races Detroit has seen in decades. A major issue is the city's ailing economy. (Photographs by Jim West for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); TRENDS (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); BASEBALL (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); SUBURBS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); CENSUS (63%); AIRLINES (62%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); POPULATION DECLINE (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (82%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (53%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%)

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (58%); EDDIE MURPHY (54%) KILPATRICK, KWAME; HILL, GIL; HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) DETROIT (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1044 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Major Gauges Drop Sharply as Investors Take Profits

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The stock market fell sharply and broadly yesterday as investors took a look around and decided the time was right to sell.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 275.67 points, to 9,269.50, a loss of 2.9 percent. The Nasdaq composite index lost 3.9 percent of its value, closing down 69.44 points at 1,699.52, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.4 percent to end the day at 1,078.30, lower by 26.31 points. 
 Investors seized the chance to take profits won in the powerful stock rally of recent weeks. Before trading commenced yesterday, the S.& P. had risen 14 percent since Sept. 21. The Nasdaq had jumped 24 percent in that period. 
But investors had other reasons to sell stocks yesterday, including a growing fear that the war in Afghanistan could be long and might delay an economic rebound in the United States. A 1.3 percent decline in the value of the dollar against the euro also hurt stocks, and Congressional dickering over a stimulus package that was supposed to help the hobbled economy seemed to disturb investors as well. 
"People just seem to be lost because they know the economy is bad, but they don't know how bad," said Paul McManus, a portfolio manager at the John Hancock Core Equity Fund. 
The market's biggest decliner was the Boeing Company, which lost what may be the largest military contract in history on Friday. Its shares plummeted 10.4 percent. But technology stocks, which had been roaring in recent weeks, also fell yesterday. Declines in semiconductor, computer and software issues weighed heavily on the Nasdaq composite.
"There is very little in the way of economic news and very little in the way of earnings updates or conference calls to try to provide some excitement here," said Christopher J. Wolfe, equity strategist for J. P. Morgan Chase's private bank. 
With virtually no economic data released yesterday, investors relied on sentiment, which has been flagging. The result was a broad-based sell-off, in which few sectors were immune. "The news broadcasts were very negative over the weekend," said Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at Needham & Company. "The government doesn't know how to handle the anthrax scare, we're not doing well in Afghanistan, are we going to go into Iraq? There wasn't one piece of good news." 
Nor is there likely to be any soon. Investors are bracing for a series of economic reports this week that may be dismal, including consumer confidence data and unemployment figures for October. Tomorrow, the government will report on the third-quarter gross domestic product. 
"The economic data is very important," said Owen Fitzpatrick, the head of the U.S. Equity Group at Bankers Trust Private Banking. "That's what the market will start to trade on now that the earnings season is almost over." 
Mr. McManus said that selling picked up as the session progressed. "What happens on these days is once people see the market starting to roll over, then everybody just steps out of the way," he said. "If a bet doesn't work out then they take it off."
As one of the 30 Dow industrials, Boeing exerted a significant drag on the market yesterday. For more than six years, the company had been competing against Lockheed Martin for the contract to build the next generation of stealth fighter jets, a $200 billion Defense Department program. Lockheed won the contract Friday after the stock market closed. Still, Lockheed's shares fell 92 cents yesterday, to $49 each.
General Motors fell $2.64, or 5.8 percent, to $42.76, after the company said that it would sell its satellite television unit to EchoStar Communications for nearly $26 billion. EchoStar and the News Corporation had been in a bidding war for Hughes Electronics, General Motors' satellite division, maker of DirecTV. EchoStar shares fell 4.6 percent, to $24.08. Gemstar TV-Guide International, the satellite arm of News Corporation, which withdrew its bid on Saturday, plummeted 13 percent, to $20.14, on the deal's announcement. 
Semiconductor stocks were particularly weak as companies reported sluggish sales and price cuts. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor stock index dropped 33.53 points, or 6.97 percent, to 447.21. 
Among other technology issues, Microsoft dropped 4 percent, I.B.M. lost 2.3 percent, and Dell Computer shed 5.5 percent.
Telecommunications stocks also weakened, with the exception of WorldCom, which rose 3 percent, to $13.77. After an encouraging earnings report from the company, analysts at Lehman Brothers raised the company's rating from buy to strong buy.
Analysts said that although yesterday's pullback was normal given the market's recent gains, trading could be erratic until investors could identify some evidence of an economic recovery. --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
By Reuters
 Treasury bond prices rose yesterday as pessimism spread about the depth of the nation's economic slump before a flurry of economic reports.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to a price of 104 3/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.48 percent from 4.52 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 4/32, to 101 23/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.26 percent from 5.27 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.48298.986High Rate2.0502.005Investment Rate2.0892.054Low Rate2.02%1.94%Median Rate2.04%1.99%Total applied $37for,953,677$33,762,586$20Accepted,384,528$18,894,831$1Noncompetitive,527,617$987,697
Both issues are dated Nov. 1. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 31, 2002, and the six-month bills mature on May 2, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from July 2001 to October 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); PRIVATE BANKING (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); EURO (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (66%); NEEDHAM & CO INC (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (66%); BAB (BRU) (66%); BA (NYSE) (66%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1045 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Catering for Rescue Workers Angers Restaurant Owners 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
Since Sept. 11, a Long Island catering company, working under contract with the Salvation Army, has been providing an average of 7,500 meals a day to rescue workers in New York City, delivering waffles, stuffed shells and pork chops from its kitchens in Suffolk County. 
 The arrangement has angered struggling restaurant owners in Lower Manhattan, including one restaurateur and caterer a few blocks from ground zero, who said Salvation Army officials told him that the agency would seriously consider dividing the food business among the all-but-empty downtown restaurants. 
 Instead, the Salvation Army stuck with the suburban caterer, Whitsons, which is delivering 7,500 meals a day to four sites around the city. Salvation Army officials would not say how much they were paying the company, which they said they had used for more than 20 years to provide Thanksgiving dinners and other meals to the needy. 
Maj. George Polarek, who is overseeing the relief effort for the Salvation Army, said that several restaurant owners had approached him, seeking to cater meals, and that dividing up the business would be logistically overwhelming. He also said the agency needed a caterer that could provide a large volume of meals in a hurry; Whitsons had the experience with large catering jobs and a good track record with the Salvation Army.
"They've been doing so much to help the rescue workers that we decided to stay with them," Major Polarek said. "In the midst of a crisis, we didn't put this out to bid. There's no reason to put this out to bid. When you need to feed 100,000 people, you go with the people you know."
Officials at Whitsons, in Huntington Station, also refused to disclose how much the Salvation Army was paying for the food, but Holly Von Seggern, the caterer's director of communications, said the company had donated more than $50,000 worth of labor and was not charging the Salvation Army for delivery, inspection and other services related to providing the meals. 
David Gruber, the owner of Brewbakers, a restaurant at Pearl and John Streets, said that early this month, when he realized that catering meals at ground zero might offset some of the economic losses he and other business owners had suffered since the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, he approached Salvation Army officials to propose that they contract with local businesses to provide the meals. 
"I told them we were dying down here," said Mr. Gruber, whose restaurant was closed for two weeks after the attack and has had few customers since it reopened.
"You know how many downtown restaurants could have gotten themselves on their feet with some of this business?" he said. "I'm two minutes away and they've got someone coming by bridges and tunnels."
E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the Greater New York Chapters of the New York State Restaurant Association, was also critical of the Salvation Army, saying, "They certainly should have given some preference to the people in the Lower Manhattan area."
The American Red Cross, which is providing an average of about 16,000 catered meals daily at ground zero and another 27,000 at the Family Assistance Center at Pier 94, is using two Manhattan caterers for most of those meals. A spokeswoman for the agency said the caterers, Bouley Consulting, a division of Bouley International, and Great Performances, were selected because they were the lowest bidders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); CATERING SERVICES (92%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); THANKSGIVING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HIJACKING (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RESTAURANTS; CATERING 

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (94%) WHITSONS (LI CATERER) 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1046 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 11 Exacts an Economic Toll From the Hospitals of New York 

BYLINE:  By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN 

 BODY:
Minutes after the second plane hit the World Trade Center, hospitals in Manhattan activated their disaster plans: They canceled elective surgery, discharged stable patients and closed walk-in clinics, emptying their beds to await the thousands of expected casualties.
 But those patients never arrived. And in the following weeks, the fallout from Sept. 11 -- including transportation difficulties and telephone failures -- kept regular patients away, and some hospitals stood one-quarter empty. Once anthrax hit, panicked New Yorkers in search of Cipro flooded emergency rooms, costing time and resources but not needing to be admitted and therefore generating little income. 
 And now, the city's high-tech hospitals, which have functioned largely as free family centers, bereavement sites and giant cafeterias, face new capital costs -- from building decontamination showers to designing ventilation systems that can withstand bioterrorism. 
In six traumatic weeks, hospitals in New York City have lost $367 million, most of it from a dramatic decrease in patient admissions, according to the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade organization. The hospitals also made many sudden emergency purchases, from $50,000 in bed linen at one hospital, to $49,000 in blood collection at another, according to grant applications submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
At a time when New York City is seeking billions in federal aid to recover from the attacks, these numbers may sound small, said Patricia Wang, a senior vice president at the hospital association. But the city's vast nonprofit medical centers have little margin and huge costs, just like the airline industry, she explained. "The difference is, we weren't one hundred percent grounded."
Indeed, at every step of the way, the hospitals were up and running, and hemorrhaging cash. So now, as some vendors threaten to withhold credit and hospitals struggle to meet payroll, they are launching a vast effort, not only to recover lost revenue, but to avert Medicaid cuts that loomed even before the trade center attacks.
Beyond these immediate struggles, however, the larger issue in New York City and the nation will be how to restructure a health care system that must function as a vital part of national security in the case of further terrorist attacks, said James R. Tallon, president of the United Hospital Fund, a philanthropy group. Questions of restructuring will have the greatest impact in the city, where many of the nation's teaching hospitals are concentrated. 
"How do we go from a highly competitive marketplace to one in which the government works with the health care community to make decisions about new investments?" Mr. Tallon said. 
All hospitals are required by federal and state regulations to have well-articulated disaster plans, the most dramatic requiring them to empty their hospitals of all nonurgent patients to prepare for casualties.
And so on the morning of Sept. 11, the hospitals were effectively "ordered to lose money," said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. And as out-of-town patients decline to travel to New York City, and elective surgeries are postponed, hospitals continue to lose money. 
By 7:30 a.m. the day of the attack, all 33 operating rooms at New York University Hospital at 30th Street and First Avenue in Manhattan were humming with a vast array of elective procedures that on a normal day bring in $1.7 million in revenue. 
But when Dr. Steven Hofstetter, chief of surgical services, got the call that the city was expecting 40,000 casualties, systemwide, he immediately swept through the operating rooms and canceled elective procedures, including those for dozens of patients already waiting. 
Dr. Hofstetter even ordered that two patients who had already been anesthetized and were about to undergo long, complex procedures be awakened and transferred to recovery rooms, so as not to tie up the services of surgeons and nurses for hours. 
Dr. Lawrence Grossman, a cardiothoracic surgeon there, was a third of the way through a complex chest reconstruction when he decided to halt the operation, close up the patient and send him to the recovery room, to reschedule his surgery for another day. 
And by 1 p.m., Dr. Hofstetter ordered that all the next day's surgeries canceled as well. By Thursday morning, according to a grant application, N.Y.U. Medical Center had lost $3.6 million in expected revenue, not including the cost of a vast data center two blocks from the World Trade Center that was destroyed, disabling electronic patient records, lab work and billing systems. 
The city's vast public hospital system, which estimates it has lost $27.4 million since the disaster, also quickly transferred 300 patients from four of its trauma hospitals to nursing homes and mental-health facilities around the city, said Dr. Luis R. Marcos, president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation. 
As similar scenes played out across the city, the financial losses, from staffing command centers and emergency morgues to recouping crushed ambulances, had just begun. St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital on West 12th Street, the closest comprehensive trauma center to the disaster site, instantly closed all six of its walk-in clinics, opened six ancillary emergency areas, and purchased a two-week supply of equipment, including 300 oxygen tanks and 18,000 pieces of burn linen. 
While St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers' network of seven hospitals treated 17 percent of the 5,943 patients from the disaster, for weeks the inpatient admissions at its Manhattan center remained down by almost half. Mark Ackerman, chief corporate services officer, said that the St. Vincent system had lost $11 million in the weeks immediately after the attack and expected to lose $27 million over six months, from capital expenses and depressed revenue. "It is devastating," he said. 
Hospitals also lost supplies by the ton. 
On Sept. 11, with few patients emerging from the rubble, Dr. Ron Krinick, chief of orthopedic surgery at N.Y.U. Downtown Hospital, just blocks from the disaster site, grabbed his staff and the most expensive equipment -- numerous $8,000 battery-powered drills for on-site amputations and $12,000 clamps for setting mangled bones and set up a triage site at 1 Liberty Plaza. 
But then firefighters warned of a building collapse and everybody ran, abandoning the equipment. "We lost every drill in the hospital and most of our casting equipment," Dr. Krinick recalled, adding, "We replenished it immediately -- by going into debt." 
At N.Y.U. Medical Center farther uptown, teams of doctors grabbed needles, bandages, gloves and intravenous tubing from the shelves, as they set off for impromptu triage sites near the trade center. "No one was saying, 'Who are we going to charge this to?' " said Dr. Hofstetter.
Most was unused but too covered with ash and dirt to be salvaged, a $1 million loss in off-the-shelf medical supplies alone, he estimated.
Meanwhile, on the Upper East Side, Mount Sinai Hospital, bearing a Jewish name that could invite a terrorist attack, increased its security budget by 30 percent. 
And it kept its dialysis machines open around the clock, as federal regulations dictate that in the event of disaster, hospitals closest to patients' homes must assume responsibility for their kidney treatment. The overtime cost for this service alone was $70,000, said Joan Lebow, a hospital spokeswoman. 
And seven of New York Presbyterian Hospital's ambulances were crushed beneath the rubble, for a net loss of $667,000, after insurance reimbursement, according to the hospital's grant applications. 
The costs just grew from there. 
Most of the city's hospitals estimate that, in the weeks that followed, their admissions fell by one-fourth. Some doctors speculate that patients may have stayed away on the mistaken assumption that the hospitals were swamped. "It was totally dead for two weeks," said Dr. Michael Mojica, a pediatric emergency room doctor at Bellevue Hospital Center. "No one came to the hospital. We were not doing anything." 
At St. Vincent's Manhattan, where admissions were down by half, things got so slow that emergency-room doctors resorted to treating rescue dogs for smoke inhalation. 
But N.Y.U. Downtown Hospital was the hardest hit financially. With Lower Manhattan closed to traffic, the hospital's referral base around the trade center destroyed, and the phones and electricity out, it had almost no patients. Since the disaster, it has lost $3.8 million in revenue, more than half of its annual revenue. "We need cash and we need it now," said the hospital's president, Dr. Leonard A. Aubrey. 
And then on Friday Oct. 12, as news broke that an NBC employee had tested positive for anthrax, the hospitals woke up to a new financial challenge: how to handle a deluge of patients that, at best, would needlessly burn time and money, and at worst, contaminate the hospital if, for example, they brought anthrax spores in on their clothing. 
And despite the prohibitive costs, hospitals have begun to prepare. They must train their doctors to recognize the symptoms of anthrax and other potential biological weapons, create separate triage systems for patients complaining of sore throat and fever, and build outsized decontamination showers in the event of a large-scale bioterrorism attack. 
Bellevue Hospital Center at 27th Street and First Avenue, though already in debt, expects to build a $500,000 decontamination shower, said Dr. Lewis Goldfrank, director of emergency medicine. 
And at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on 59th Street, part of a health network that estimates $15 million in losses since the attack, officials are considering a new ventilation system to separate the emergency room from the rest of the hospital. This change will inevitably become a vast new capital expenditure. As Dr. Dan Weiner, director of emergency medicine, explained, "There's just no way to pass this cost on to patients." 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER -- Careful Accounting"Hospitals in the region are feeling the economic pain since the September attacks. Here is an estimate of extra costs incurred by one hospital -- St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital -- for its role in the emergency response. Overtime for command center, medical personnel, housekeeping and food services: $330,000 Additional staff called in for emergency duty: 221,000Feeding emergency staff: 10,000Two-way radios: 1,000 Transportation -- patients being discharged to make room needed to be taken home.: 7,000 Emergency medications: 45,000Emergency blood supply collections: 13,000 Emergency supplies, including beds, ventilators, oxygen tanks, burn packs and linens: 184,000 Increased utility usage: 4,000Emergency generator: 5,000Telecommunications needed to set up command center: 1,000Damage to facilities due to volume of victims, visitors and volunteers: 64,000Property loss, mostly for an ambulance: 232,000Hazard mitigation: 465,000Chelsea lease: 249,900Emergency morgue: 7,000Supplies sent to ground zero: 15,000Emergency linens sent to ground zero: 50,000TOTAL: 1,903,900 (Source: St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); BLOOD BANKS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HOSPITALS; FINANCES; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; SURGERY AND SURGEONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: FINKELSTEIN, KATHERINE E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1047 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Nigerian Army Is Accused Of Mass Killings in Villages
Residents of Gbeji say soldiers arrived in their village last Monday and gunned down at least 66 men. Local and state government officials say similar violence occurred in at least 15 other remote villages and towns in Benue State, in eastern Nigeria. A3

Israeli Troops Stay Put
Israeli forces remained dug in in Tulkarm and in three other Palestinian-controlled cities, despite renewed American pleas that they depart immediately. Israeli officials asserted that the soldiers were a vital bulwark against terror attacks. Israeli forces left Bethlehem and Beit Jala overnight Sunday. A6

Four Israeli women were killed and more than 30 people were wounded when Palestinian gunmen riding in a sport utility vehicle opened fire near a bus stop on Hadera's main street on Sunday. The gunmen, from the militant group Islamic Holy War, were killed by police officers. A6

4 Dead in Shooting in France
A masked railroad worker, Jean-Pierre Roux-Durrafourt, went on a rampage in Tours, killing 4 people and wounding 10, including three police officers, before he was captured. Local officials speculated that the gunman was angry at his employer, the national railroad. A8

Milosevic Made to Listen
Slobodan Milosevic, in his third appearance before the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague, was made to listen to four hours of accusations of atrocities ranging from murder and torture to plunder and rape. The former Yugoslav leader refused to enter a plea and again challenged the court's legitimacy. A8

World Briefing A8

SPORTS S1-7

French Skiing Star in Coma
Regine Cavagnoud, 31, who was expected to be a contender at the Salt Lake City Olympics next year, was in critical condition in Innsbruck, Austria, after a collision with a German coach during a training run. S6

NATIONAL A10-14

Court Weighs Issue Of Health and Job Rights
The Supreme Court expanded its examination of federal disability law by agreeing to decide whether an employer can refuse to hire people who can perform the requirements of the job but who, because of a medical condition, will put their health or life in danger by doing so. The justices conducted the days business from a borrowed courtroom in a federal courthouse near their own, because anthrax had been detected in their own court's mailroom. A10

Vote on Air Rifle Recall
The Consumer Product Safety Commission will vote today on whether to seek a recall of seven million Daisy BB guns that critics say can fire even when they appear to be empty and that have been blamed for almost two dozen deaths and many injuries in the last 30 years. A12

Retraining the Work Force
Tens of thousands of workers who have lost airline and other jobs in recent months -- most of them lacking a college degree -- have begun retraining, intent on reinventing themselves as dietitians, welders, teachers' aides, nurses and even massage therapists. Some of those who are college graduates have begun taking the post-graduate courses required to become licensed teachers. A10

An Urban Hermit
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia has formally recognized Brother Richard Withers as a hermit. The 46-year-old man has taken vows of poverty, chastity and obedience and lives alone, not in some remote desert or forest but in a row house in a struggling urban neighborhood. A10

NEW YORK/REGION D1-6

City's Hospitals Reeling From Post-Attack Losses
The city's hospitals lost $367 million in the seven weeks since the terror attack on Sept. 11, mostly from a decline in patient admissions that began that day and has not been recouped. Hospitals are struggling to meet their payrolls, and some vendors are threatening to withhold credit. D1

Effort to Restore TV Signals
The local broadcasting industry, already reeling from economic losses of tens of millions of dollars, is desperately searching for a long-term solution to restoring over-the-air television service that was cut off by the loss of the main antennas atop the World Trade Center. Hundreds of thousands of homes in the New York City region remain unable to receive more than two stations. D1

FASHION C24

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES D6-7

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Nutrition Bar Labels Faulted
Most nutrition bars do not live up to their health claims, and many of their labels underreport levels of carbohydrates, a testing organization, ConsumerLab, said. The F.D.A., which has been investigating nutrition bars for a year, has sent letters to 18 companies complaining about the labeling practices. A12

A Terrorist Code?
Investigators are concerned that terrorists may be communicating through steganography, a method that can hide messages in digital photographs or in music files. F1

Mad Cow Disease Risks
A group of epidemiologists in London say the human form of mad cow disease may peak at 100 cases per year in Britain and kill no more than a few thousand people in coming decades, but other experts challenge that estimate as overly optimistic. F6

Health & Fitness F6

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Ford's Chief Replaced
Jacques Nasser, 53, left, has resigned as chief executive after nearly three years, to be replaced by Ford's chairman, William Clay Ford Jr., 44, a great-grandson of the company's founder, Henry Ford. A1

United True to Its Name, for Now
Union leaders and investors hailed John W. Creighton Jr., the new chief executive of United Airlines, but the honeymoon may not last as Mr. Creighton seeks ways to stanch losses estimated at $20 million a day. C1

Back to Commissions at Merrill
Merrill Lynch said it would overhaul the way it pays its 15,000 brokers, signaling a shift back to commissions on transactions -- preferably large ones -- and away from annual fees for managing customer assets. C1

Rough Day for Stocks
The Dow fell 275.67 points, or 2.9 percent, to 9,269.50; the Nasdaq lost 69.44 points, or 3.9 percent, to 1,699.52; and the S.& P. 500 dropped 2.4 percent. C10

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Charity and red tape; the Senate's quaking moderates; Suozzi for Nassau County executive; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Jonathan Franzen.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Anthony Lewis.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives D2
Weather A14

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); HOMICIDE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TERRORISM (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SKIING (69%); RELIGION (68%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); TORTURE (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); WINTER OLYMPICS (63%); PRODUCT SAFETY (60%); MURDER (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); NIGERIA (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1048 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Price Pushes OPEC To Consider Cut in Output 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
After talks over the weekend and yesterday, officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries indicated that the group would probably authorize a substantial cut in daily output at its next meeting on Nov. 14 to bolster low prices.
 In the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks and the decline of the global economy, the group, which supplies about 40 percent of the world's oil, has failed to keep prices in the range of $22 to $28 a barrel that it has long favored. The slump in oil prices has cost the 10 voting OPEC members billions of dollars in revenue. 
 On Saturday, the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said, "All necessary measures will be taken with all major oil producers to manage the oil price and return it to the target band of $22 to $28 a barrel."
After discussions at the group's headquarters in Vienna yesterday, Mr. Naimi echoed those thoughts, saying OPEC "will decide the level it takes to maintain the price band." 
Mr. Naimi and other ministers declined to specify how deep the output cuts would be. But most industry analysts, who said the overtures were credible, estimated that the decrease would be 700,000 to a million barrels day. The group has pulled back production three times this year by a total of 3.5 million barrels, or about 13 percent. 
Prices rose slightly on the news of the possible reduction. Crude oil for December delivery rose 12 cents yesterday, to $22.15 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Oil traders were lukewarm about the production decrease in large part because OPEC has had limited success in reining in rampant overproduction among its members.
The group authorized a reduction of a million barrels a day effective Sept. 1, but members continued to produce about 1.3 million barrels a day more than their official quotas to cash in on the relatively high prices. But data for oil production so far in October show that OPEC nations are overproducing by 500,000 to 700,000 barrels a day, a signal, industry experts said, of tightening compliance.
OPEC has also been trying to persuade major oil producers outside the group to reduce production or at least hold to current levels -- so far in vain. Russia and Mexico, two major producers with the additional capacity to pump more oil, said they had no plans to trim output.
All sorts of unknowns loom that could thwart OPEC's plans. Oil demand has fallen substantially as the global economy has slumped. But some analysts said the group risks cutting too deeply just as heating oil demand picks up. The course of the American retaliation against Osama bin Laden could also jar the world economy again, and if it expands to include Iraq, oil production in the Persian Gulf could be thrown into disarray. 
More probably, Iraq could shake up the delicate balance that OPEC is trying to strike between supply and demand by withdrawing its exports from the market. In early December, the United Nations oil-for-food program is up for regular review, and Iraq has often reduced its exports of about 2.1 million barrels day to press for greater leeway. Saudi Arabia has traditionally filled the breach and made up for lost Iraqi oil. Whatever cut OPEC may make might not go into effect until Jan. 1, said Roger Diwan of the Petroleum Finance Company in Washington, so that the group could gauge just how to respond to Iraq's maneuvers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (69%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) NAIMI, ALI AL- (MIN); BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (77%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1049 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: TV Stations Scrambling for Antennas, Ratings and Revenue 

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
Six weeks after the collapse of the World Trade Center, hundreds of thousands of homes in the New York area remain unable to receive more than two television stations, and the local broadcasting industry, already reeling from economic losses of tens of millions of dollars, finds itself increasingly desperate to find a long-term solution that will restore its ability to reach every possible viewer.
 Because the main antennas atop the north tower came down, all the local stations, except Channels 2 and 41, which had backup antennas on the Empire State Building, have lost a significant part of their audiences, ranging between 10 percent and 35 percent. 
 WNET, Channel 13, which was most vulnerable to the damage to its broadcast signal because it has the smallest percentage of viewers who subscribe to cable television, has suffered the largest loss, about a third of its audience. The station has completely stopped on-the-air fund-raising. 
"If nothing changes and we continue to lose one-third of our audience, we would be taken out of the business," the station's president, Bill Baker, said.
According to the BIA Financial Network, a firm that follows advertising spending on local television stations, advertising revenue for the New York market will fall by about 16 percent for this year, twice the drop the firm was predicting before Sept. 11.
All the stations have found space on a tower in Alpine, N.J., or the Empire State Building, enabling viewers in some areas to receive some of the stations. But those sites offer poor solutions. The tower in Alpine is far too small to broadcast clear pictures throughout the metropolitan region, and the Empire State Building has too little space and electrical power to accommodate the demands of all the stations.
The long-term situation may be rectified only by the construction of an enormous stand-alone broadcast tower, perhaps as tall as 2,000 feet, preferably somewhere near the twin towers site. 
That solution is fraught with complications, including the cost, estimated at between $30 million and $40 million, to be divided among the stations. In addition, the location will be critical, since the new antennas could interfere with television signals in cities like Philadelphia and Boston, and will have to avoid established flight patterns for local airports.
The 10 local stations have formed a coalition to address the problems, and Mr. Baker, of Channel 13, was appointed its chairman. He described the dilemma the stations face as "a catastrophe that is not easily solvable."
He noted that about 20 percent of the 7.3 million homes in the New York metropolitan television market are not hooked up for cable or satellite service, a figure that becomes much larger if the total number of sets is included. Many homes have only some of their sets wired for cable and depend on the broadcast signal for other sets.
The collapse of the twin towers cost the stations more than their antennas. All the stations had also installed technical equipment for the coming switch to digital television signals. All of that was wiped out as well.
Mr. Baker, whose channel had started its digital service two months before the attacks, said that the price for the lost equipment alone surpassed $20 million. He said he hoped insurance would cover the loss.
Tom Kane, the president of WABC, Channel 7, said that his station's ratings had dropped more than 20 percent, and that advertising revenue was off by roughly the same amount. "We've tried to figure the economic value of our lost business for insurance, but we don't know how quickly viewers will return, so the damage will continue," he said.
Channel 7, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, improved its reach this weekend with the help of a sister radio station, WPLJ. Mr. Kane said Channel 7 took over the space on the main antenna on the Empire State Building formerly used by WPLJ radio, which moved to a smaller antenna there. That allowed Channel 7 to reach a much wider area than it had reached from Alpine. The station instantly became much easier to view in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, where few homes had been able to see it.
The main reason for the improvement is height. Broadcasters need a clear path to viewers' homes. The tower at the Alpine site is only 900 feet high. The Empire State Building site is about 1,300 feet high. (The trade center, with its antenna, was about 1,700 feet.)
Station executives said the Empire State Building management has been moving aggressively to try to offer the broadcasters what they need. "I think they have a shot at becoming the primary permanent location," Mr. Kane said. "But they know they have to make their case quickly, before an alternative site is selected."
No other tall New York building is a likely site, several engineers said, because none were configured for such use. The G.E. Building, which houses NBC, for example, might be a likely candidate, but it would need a rooftop antenna about 1,000 feet tall. The engineers said one so large was likely to collapse the building. 
The ideal permanent site, the station executives agreed, would be a stand-alone tower, ideally about 2,000 feet tall. That would be a structure considerably higher than the World Trade Center.
The best location for such a tower, many television executives agree, is Governors Island, which has both the land that would be required, and the proximity to the old site. But because of the hurdles involved in gaining acceptance for that site, which include environmental concerns and potential political conflicts, alternative sites are still being sought.
One other site widely mentioned is Fresh Kills, the former waste dump on Staten Island. That location would create far fewer complaints from either housing or environmental opponents, several station executives said.
But Mr. Baker raised the question of whether Fresh Kills, which is 14 miles south of the city center, would be approved by the Federal Communications Commission, which he said would insist on the signal not interfering with stations in Philadelphia, or the Federal Aviation Administration, which would have to ensure safety for flights from Newark International Airport.
At least one other senior station executive suggested that Fresh Kills should be taken more seriously than Governors Island because it would be easier to win approval from both federal agencies than all the constituencies that would raise objections to using Governors Island for the benefit of television stations.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (94%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TERRORISM (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); HIJACKING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); AIRPORTS (64%); AIRLINES (60%) TELEVISION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1050 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Many of the Newly Laid Off Head for Retraining 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
One was a flight attendant who wanted to become a private investigator. Another, cradling his 2-year-old son in his arms, had been a baggage handler but wanted to learn how to repair heaters and air-conditioners. Yet another had known only one job since turning 20 -- he had been an airplane mechanic for 11 years -- but said he was hoping he could apply those same skills to fixing computers.
 There were two dozen in all. Each had been laid off by US Airways in the last five weeks, and each came here to an annex of the Community College of Allegheny County this morning to register for a job training program that will cram two years' worth of college-level courses into nine months. 
 The college designed the program to accommodate the workers, nearly 2,000 in all, who have lost their jobs at the US Airways hub here and who must now acquire skills in those few fields where "help wanted" signs remain prominently displayed.
Across the country, tens of thousands of workers who have lost airline and other jobs in recent months -- most of them lacking college degrees -- have begun similar retraining, intent on reinventing themselves as dietitians, welders, teachers' aides, nurses or even massage therapists. Some of those who are college graduates have begun taking the postgraduate courses required to become licensed teachers.
That such jobs exist suggests that some sectors of the economy, particularly those related to the care of an aging population, may well sop up many of these workers. But those switching careers will most likely have to adjust to lower salaries and new definitions of themselves.
"It's going to take time for me to be able to say I don't fix airplanes anymore," said Dave Dumas, 31, the would-be computer technician, who took the first steps today toward attaining his associate's degree. "I was just thinking how strange it's going to be to do homework and sit in a classroom. It's been a long time."
Though more than 100,000 people have been pared from the airlines' payrolls since the hijackings of Sept. 11, they are among only the most recent victims of an economy that has been slumping badly for a year. And many of the earlier victims have responded in much the same way. Thirty people who lost jobs in Silicon Valley earlier this year, for instance, have since enrolled at Trinity College in San Jose, Calif., where they are pursuing a less stressful line of work: they are studying to become massage therapists.
"I decided I no longer wanted to work with people who were frustrated over the operation of a machine," said one of the new massage students, Jill Brazda, 42, laid off by an Internet software company in June. "It makes me feel good that people will have a better day or won't get so upset on the freeway because they came in to get a massage from me."
Ms. Brazda worked in Silicon Valley for 10 years and earned nearly $80,000 last year. But with massage therapists in Northern California routinely charging $75 or more an hour -- and with 25 massages a week considered a reasonable workload -- Ms. Brazda estimated that her new income could well approach $100,000 annually, after she receives her license next year.
While teaching in an urban public school is far less lucrative, interest in such jobs has grown noticeably since the economy began flagging, said Barbara Radner, a professor of education at DePaul University in Chicago. Professor Radner leads a one-year, low-cost training program for college graduates seeking to enter teaching after working in other jobs. Those who complete the program must teach for at least five years in the Chicago schools.
Though applications are not due until January, Professor Radner said she had already received serious inquiries from a number of people who had lost their jobs since the events of Sept. 11. They include an account manager at an advertising agency, a real estate agent and an executive at United Airlines.
Those who are suddenly unemployed and do not have a college degree have often been surprised at the flexibility of community colleges. The program here at Allegheny -- which mirrors efforts by community colleges serving airline hubs in Arizona and North Carolina -- will begin on Nov. 19, two months into the fall semester and almost two months before the start of the spring semester.
Roy Flores, Allegheny's president, said he knew that the former US Airways employees did not have the luxury of waiting to begin their new careers. He said the college had worked with local employers to make sure the courses offered matched jobs known to be available.
Allegheny is charging about $4,000 for the nine-month associate's degree program, about what it would cost to take the same courses over two years. Most of those who enrolled today said that the tuition would be a burden but that they saw it as an investment, one they would finance using unemployment insurance, severance pay and, in some cases, retraining assistance from the federal government.
Many of the former airline employees were red-eyed. Marsyl String, 47, laid off after working as a customer service manager at US Airways nearly half her life, said she was having difficulty imagining doing anything else. She said she had finally decided she would learn how to become a designer of Web pages. 
Ms. String said she was especially grateful for the accelerated time line at Allegheny because her husband was also in jeopardy of losing his customer service job at US Airways.
"I'm his backup," she said. "He told me to hurry up and go to school and get a job. It's always been a risk to have our eggs in one basket."
Many who came to school here today said that working behind the scenes at an airport had fulfilled a childhood dream, and that they had never intended to leave until they retired. "It was exciting thinking that you were loading bags onto a plane that was off to Europe," said James Strain, 43, who recently lost his job as a baggage handler at Pittsburgh International Airport.
"You'd look up at the plane and see the kids in the window smiling at you," he said. "You'd wave and make their day, and they'd make yours."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wade Sattlee, laid off by US Airways, was joined by his son yesterday when he registered for retraining at a community college in Pittsburgh. He is one of thousands who are moving toward new careers. (Terry Clark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); HIJACKING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (70%); MASSAGE SERVICES (70%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); AGING (50%) LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS; COMMUNITY COLLEGE OF ALLEGEHNY COUNTY (PA) 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1051 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: S.B.A. Loans After Terror Attack 

BYLINE:  By Edward Wyatt (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 The Small Business Administration has granted $75 million in loans so far to 770 business owners and individuals who suffered losses in the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, an agency official told the City Council yesterday. The agency has received 3,107 loan applications so far after responding to 27,914 requests for information, a lower response rate than is typical for other disasters in which federal agencies offer aid, according to the official, Cynthia A. Steed, an S.B.A. loan officer. 
 Edward Wyatt (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CITIES (87%); TRENDS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%) SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA) 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1052 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Investment Banks Pay Some Workers Not to Show Up 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

 BODY:
When Jamie Odell, a recent graduate of Princeton University, received the e-mail note from J. P. Morgan Chase, his prospective employer, he was relieved.
 "I'd heard so many horror stories from peers who had been laid off," said Mr. Odell, 24, who was supposed to start training as a financial analyst last month. 
 Instead of sending a pink slip, the firm was offering to pay Mr. Odell $20,000 upfront, roughly a fifth of his annual salary, if he would defer joining the firm for a year. As an added incentive, the company said it would pay $5,000 extra if he worked for a nonprofit organization. Otherwise he would be free to spend his time any way he liked, as long as he did not work for a competitor. 
Mr. Odell now teaches math and social studies to fifth and sixth graders at Our Lady Queen of Angels in Manhattan.
About a tenth of J. P. Morgan Chase's 600 college recruits in the United States have taken up the deferral offer. 
Voluntary deferrals, or flexible leave, as these programs are often called, have become a way for consulting firms and other businesses for which people are the main expense to reduce overhead in a time of economic uncertainty. But for the cutthroat business of investment banking, where job cuts often require employees to clear out their desks and leave the premises immediately, these programs are a novelty.
A handful of investment banks are experimenting with such programs for the first time this year. Merrill Lynch is offering employees who have been with the firm for at least two years the option of taking sabbaticals of six months to a year. Those who participate get a fifth of their salaries plus full benefits. Salomon Smith Barney, a unit of Citigroup, has given its recent college recruits the option of deferring their starting dates for a year on a similar basis.
Some banks have been forced to rescind offers outright. Credit Suisse First Boston, which said last month that it would cut 2,000 jobs, has had to tell some newly recruited college graduates, who had been set to join the firm this fall, that their positions no longer existed, a person close to the company said.
Deferral programs are intended to help companies react to a business cycle that has sped up in recent years. That pace can make it difficult when a firm like J. P. Morgan begins recruiting potential candidates as early as October, nine months before they will begin their training. Longer lead times became particularly problematic in the current downturn, when business declined more swiftly than during previous slumps, noted Martin Atkin, head of the junior resource management group at J. P. Morgan Chase. 
Such programs are not without their risks, said John Bowmer, chief executive of Adecco, a Swiss company that is one of the world's largest recruiters of temporary and permanent employees. "What happens if the economy doesn't come back next year?" he asked.
Although a 12-month sabbatical may seem like a dream come true for many, it can be a strain on the pocketbooks of recent graduates, especially those saddled with student loans.
In any case, many investment banks will still be forced to resort to layoffs for more senior staff members as they curtail expenses in what is proving to be a globally synchronized recession. And deferral programs mean these companies will have fewer spaces for 2002 college graduates. But the programs do help these banks save face.
"The cost isn't just dollars," Mr. Bowmer said. "It's the cost of a company's reputation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jamie Odell teaches math because his new employer, J. P. Morgan Chase, has deferred his starting date and given him a reduced salary. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); ADECCO SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, CHASE & CO; MERRILL LYNCH & CO; CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); ADI1 (FRA) (50%); ADEN (SWX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1053 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Rome Journal; 
Provocateur Is Back to 'Spit on' Detractors of U.S.

BYLINE:  By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: ROME, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
Oriana Fallaci, the war correspondent who practically invented it's-all-about-me journalism some 30 years ago, had in effect become the Italian J. D. Salinger, refusing to give interviews and publishing not a word for the last decade.
 But now, at age 71 and sick with cancer, she has suddenly returned to her role as professional provocateur. In an expletive-rich indictment of Muslim immigrants and Italian ambivalence toward the United States that filled four full pages in the country's leading newspaper recently, she sent Italy's intelligentsia on a search of its soul. 
 Her essay, "The Rage and the Pride," began by announcing that reports that some Italians had celebrated the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on America had so enraged her that she had decided to break "the self-imposed silence I have kept for 10 years to avoid mixing with cicadas." 
"They say: 'Good. Serves the Americans right.' ' she wrote. "And I am very, very, very cross. Cross with a cold, lucid, rational rage, that commands me to answer them and first of all to spit on them."
That was just a warm-up for the scorn she heaped on fellow Italians.
"My country, my Italy, is not the Italy of today," she wrote, "the pleasure-loving, vulgar Italy of people who think only about retiring before they are 50, the evil, stupid and cowardly Italy of the little hyenas who would send their daughter to a brothel in Beirut just to shake hands with a Hollywood star, but when the kamikaze of bin Laden reduce thousands of New Yorkers to mush, laugh and say it serves America right."
She was tougher still, though, on Arab immigrants, saying their arrival in Italy amounts to a colonization, "a secret invasion." Going well beyond Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's recent comments about the superiority of Western civilization, she wrote: "We might as well admit it. Our churches and cathedrals are more beautiful than their mosques."
Her tone and anti-immigrant theme were all but universally rejected, but the criticism of her native Italy as a country of divided loyalties, deeply conflicted about the American-led military action, is getting a serious hearing.
The discussion took on new life this week after Corriere della Sera, the Milan newspaper that published her original piece, ran an article with the headline, "One Italian Out of Four 'Justifies' bin Laden."
The article said one-quarter of all Italians could not only understand the reasons behind the Sept. 11 attacks but could also "justify" them -- although the actual polling data showed that 27 percent found the attacks completely wrong, 22 percent thought them mostly wrong and only 6 percent considered them mostly right.
Signs of mixed feelings abound here. Some graffiti say, "Siamo tutti americani," ("We are all Americans"), but other spray-painted messages declare, "Siamo tutti palestinesi." ("We are all Palestinians.")
In Italy, as in many other countries, condemnation of the terrorist attacks has been mixed at times with a sense that what happened to America amounted to some form of retribution for the country's dominance of the world's economy, culture, politics and military power.
As so often in the past, it appears -- at least to some -- that she has hit a nerve in a country where Mr. Berlusconi, a conservative, has already used strong anti-immigrant language that was welcomed by some Italians even as it has angered others.
Ms. Fallaci grew up poor in Florence and fought in the anti-Fascist resistance as a teenager. She always took sides in writing about wars from Vietnam to the Persian Gulf, and she became the best-known political interviewer of her generation.
She famously called Yasir Arafat "a man born to irritate," and described Henry A. Kissinger, whom she interviewed in 1972, this way: "Do you know that obsessive, hammering sound of rain falling on a roof? His voice is like that."
"Each interview," she once said, "is a portrait of myself, a strange mixture of my ideas, my temperament, my patience, all of these driving the questions."
In the latest article, she was not even vaguely sisterly toward Muslim women: "If in some countries women are so stupid as to accept wearing the chador, so idiotic as to marry a cretin who wants four wives, that's their problem. But to treat them with indulgence or tolerance or hope is suicide."
This report, from Manhattan, where she now spends most of her time, was as angry as anything she had ever written.
Yet most of the prominent writers and thinkers who answered her in print disagreed but did so carefully and with a respect that was almost as astonishing as her original article. 
The novelist Dacia Maraini wrote that "if you turn this into the first move of a holy war, you are helping him," meaning Osama bin Laden, adding, "It is a trap, Oriana, in which you seem to have fallen, spurred on by the impetuousness and the courage -- a little quixotic in this case -- that characterize you."
Giovanni Sartori, professor of humanities at Columbia University and professor emeritus at the University of Florence, concluded that while he did not completely agree with her, "Oriana Fallaci must be right, since her accusers are thoroughly wrong."
The leader of the leftist opposition, Francesco Rutelli, a former mayor of Rome, said: "I subscribe to a small part of her intervention. She's not a political leader, so she can write what she wants. And all her life is a life of literature, passion and personal commitment, so what she writes is important."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oriana Fallaci in 1966. Her new diatribe against immigrants -- and Italians -- in Italy is getting a surprisingly respectful hearing. (Ugo Mulas); Oriana Fallaci, in chador, with Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran, second from left, in 1979. Her personal journalism always hit a nerve, as did a recent article that she published in Italy after 10 years of public silence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RELIGION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); HIJACKING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); INDICTMENTS (71%); CELEBRITIES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); MISSING PERSONS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%) HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; FALLACI, ORIANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (95%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ITALY

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1054 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Drilling for Tolerance

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
In April 1988 Saudi Arabia asked the U.S. to withdraw its newly appointed ambassador, Hume Horan, after only six months. News reports said King Fahd just didn't like the U.S. envoy. What the Saudis didn't like about him, though, was that he was the best Arabic speaker in the State Department, and had used his language skills to engage all kinds of Saudis, including the kingdom's conservative religious leaders who were critical of the ruling family. The Saudis didn't want someone so adroit at penetrating their society, so -- of course -- we withdrew Mr. Horan.
 Ever since then we've been sending non-Arabic-speaking ambassadors to Riyadh -- mostly presidential cronies who knew exactly how to penetrate the White House but didn't have a clue how to penetrate Saudi Arabia. Yes sir, we got the message: As long as the Saudis kept the oil flowing, what they taught in their schools and mosques was not our business. And what we didn't know wouldn't hurt us. 
 Well, on Sept. 11 we learned just how wrong that view was. What we didn't know hurt us very badly. On Sept. 11 we learned all the things about Saudi Arabia that we didn't know: that Saudi Arabia was the primary funder of the Taliban, that 15 of the hijackers were disgruntled young Saudis and that Saudi Arabia was allowing fund-raising for Osama bin Laden -- as long as he didn't use the money to attack the Saudi regime. 
And most of all, we've learned about Saudi schools. As this newspaper recently reported from Riyadh, the 10th-grade textbook for one of the five required religion classes taught in all Saudi public schools states: "It is compulsory for the Muslims to be loyal to each other and to consider the infidels their enemy." This hostile view of non-Muslims, which is particularly pronounced in the strict Saudi Wahhabi brand of Islam, is reinforced through Saudi sermons, TV shows and the Internet.
There is something wrong with this picture: Since Sept. 11, the president of the United States has given several speeches about how Islam is a tolerant religion, with no core hostility to the West. But the leader of Saudi Arabia, the keeper of the Muslim holy places, hasn't given one.
The truth is, there are at least two sides to Saudi Arabia, but we've pretended that there's only one. There is the wealthy Saudi ruling family and upper middle classes, who send their kids to America to be educated and live Western-style lives abroad and behind the veil at home. And there is an Islamist element incubating religious hostility toward America and the West, particularly among disaffected, unemployed Saudi youth. 
It is said that truth is the first victim of war. Not this war. In the war of Sept. 11, we've been the first victims of our own inability to tell the truth -- to ourselves and to others. It's time now to tell the truth. And the truth is that with the weapons of mass destruction that are now easily available, how governments shape the consciousness, mentality and imagination of their young people is no longer a private matter.
We now have two choices: First, we can decide that the Saudi ruling family really is tolerant, strong and wants to be part of the solution, and thus we can urge its members to educate their children differently and ensure that fund-raising in their society doesn't go to people who want to destroy ours. If so, I don't expect the Saudis to teach their kids to love America or embrace non-Muslim religions. 
But if countries want good relations with us, then they have to know that whatever religious vision they teach in their public schools we expect them to teach the "peaceful" realization of that vision. All U.S. ambassadors need to make that part of their brief. Because if tolerance is not made universal, then coexistence is impossible. But such simple tolerance of other faiths is precisely what Saudi Arabia has not been teaching.
If the Saudis cannot or will not do that, then we must conclude that the Saudi ruling family is not really on our side, and we should move quickly to lessen our dependence upon it. I was for radical energy conservation, getting rid of gas-guzzlers and reducing oil imports before Sept. 11 -- but I feel even more strongly about it now.
"Either we get rid of our minivans or Saudi Arabia gets rid of its textbooks," says Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins foreign policy specialist. "But one thing we know for sure -- it's dangerous to go on assuming that the two can coexist." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); HIJACKING (64%) TERRORISM; ISLAM; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA; NEW YORK CITY; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1055 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Challenges Abound for New Chief at Beleaguered United Airlines 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Labor leaders and investors gave John W. Creighton Jr., United Airlines' new chief executive, a firm clap on the back yesterday, but the honeymoon may not last long at United, the world's largest and most troubled employee-owned company. 
 Mr. Creighton, who met with United's senior officers yesterday and mingled with employees at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, will presumably have to move quickly to stanch losses estimated at $20 million a day. He must also refashion a management team that has lost credibility with employees and manage the expectations of the labor unions that helped topple his predecessor. 
 The perils were immediately apparent. Although Frederick C. Dubinsky, chairman of the Air Line Pilots Association unit at United and a director of the parent UAL Corporation, strongly endorsed Mr. Creighton in an interview yesterday as "the right person for the job," he was cool to the idea of wage concessions. Many analysts think that such concessions are critical to turning United around.
"I don't think any employee at United Airlines intends to pay for the right to come to work," Captain Dubinsky said. "We are not indentured servants." 
Mr. Creighton, former chief executive of Weyerhaeuser and a UAL director since 1998, was named UAL's chairman and chief executive in a special session on Sunday after the board pressed James E. Goodwin to resign. 
Mr. Goodwin, since being named chief executive in 1999, had alienated the company's unions to the point where the board concluded he was not able to lead the company through its current financial crisis, the worst in its history. 
After the terrorist attacks last month, the airline industry has experienced its largest decline in passenger traffic. United, the second-largest carrier, eliminated 20,000 jobs and reduced its schedule by 26 percent. Still, it is hemorrhaging cash. The airline was already in trouble before Sept. 11. United lost $605 million in the first half of the year as the nation's economic slowdown led to a decline in business travel at a time costs were rising to pay for pilots' wage increases. Analysts expect UAL to lose about $600 million for the third quarter when it reports its earnings on Thursday. 
The economic effects of the terrorist attacks and the revolt against Mr. Goodwin sent UAL's stock price to a 15-year low on Friday, closing at $13.93. Yesterday, it ended trading at $14.15, up 22 cents. 
Mr. Creighton, who is 69, is credited with having cut costs and refocused Weyerhaeuser on its core forest products business in his time as chief executive there from 1991 to 1998. In 1994, he introduced a program that resulted in a $600 million increase in operating profit over three years. 
A Wall Street analyst praised him for being calm and methodical. But the analyst, who insisted on anonymity, also said that Mr. Creighton was cautious and wondered if his style would serve him well at United. 
"What was needed at Weyerhaeuser was not what is needed at United," the analyst said. "He could take three years. He didn't have any immediate issues that needed to be dealt with in three months." 
Mr. Creighton's strongest backer is the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. The union represents 40,000 United employees, owns about 20 percent of the company and, along with the pilots, has a seat on the UAL board. 
The machinists also represent about 7,000 Weyerhaeuser workers. R. Thomas Buffenbarger, the union's president, and Mr. Creighton serve together on the board of the Boy Scouts of America. It was Mr. Buffenbarger who recommended Mr. Creighton for his spot as a UAL director. 
"We give him high marks for credibility and integrity," Mr. Buffenbarger said yesterday. "He is a shrewd businessman. He has a faith in his employees. He will work with us. But he expects a full-fledged commitment from our side as well. We are not afraid of that, and that is what makes the relationship work."
But Denny Scott, an economist with the Western Council of Industrial Workers, which represented 3,000 Weyerhaeuser workers when Mr. Creighton was there, criticized him for demanding concessions and for fighting union-organizing campaigns. 
"The advice I would give workers at United is to be very guarded and to watch very closely," he said. 
United's unions are ready. The Association of Flight Attendants, which represents 26,000 United employees, wants to know what Mr. Creighton is going to do about Avolar, UAL's new business-jet subsidiary. The union says that Avolar's plans not to use its members as flight attendants violates its contract.
"His response will show how he differs from previous management in terms of working with employees as opposed to against us," a union spokesman, Jeff Zack, said.
The machinists union, which is fending off a representation challenge at United from a rival union, is sticking to a demand for an industry-leading wage increase like that received by the airline's pilots last year. Most analysts consider this unrealistic today.
All the major unions are looking for Mr. Creighton to shake up United's executive ranks. "I am scratching names off my Christmas card list," Captain Dubinsky said. He said United's entire labor relations team, which he called incompetent, should be fired.
Mr. Buffenbarger was also direct, calling for the dismissal of Andrew P. Studdert, United's chief operating officer. "Andy Studdert is probably the person most responsible for Jim Goodwin's inability to run this airline," he said. "He has no credibility with this union. Zero. Zilch. None. He has got to go." 
Yet investors and many United managers are looking for Mr. Creighton to rein in the airline's unions, which many blame for its problems. Some have said that Mr. Creighton can use the threat of a filing for bankruptcy protection, which would wipe out the unions' equity stake in the airline, as a stick. 
But Captain Dubinsky, who will be replaced at the union and on the UAL board by a new pilots' leader at the end of the year, said United's public shareholders had much more to lose than the pilots, who hold 25 percent of UAL stock.
"If we were to lose the equity at this point, given the value, who cares?" he said. "You still have to feed your family." 
He maintained that pilot pay is more important than the stock, which is tied up in retirement accounts and therefore cannot be traded. "Stock is long term," he said. "The grocery bill is short term." 
To many at the airline and on Wall Street, that summarizes the failure of United's employee ownership. Can Mr. Creighton turn that around? 
"Jim Goodwin never respected employee ownership, never understood it, never committed to it," said Christopher Mackin, president of Ownership Associates, a consultant in Cambridge, Mass., who has worked for United on the issue of employee ownership. "The question here is going to be how Creighton picks up the neglected opportunity of ownership that has laid fallow there since the early, honeymoon days."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Creighton Jr., the new chief executive of United Airlines. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); EXECUTIVES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; ORGANIZED LABOR; PILOTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (83%) UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; CREIGHTON, JOHN W JR; DUBINSKY, FREDERICK C; GOODWIN, JAMES E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1056 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE COMMUTERS; 
When the Attack Fallout Moves the Office to the Suburbs

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Kristian Areche grew up in Washington Heights. He loves his neighborhood. But it does not make much sense for him to live there anymore.
 Before Sept. 11, it did. To get to work, he took the No. 1 train to the World Financial Center. The trip was about 10 miles. It took about half an hour and cost less than $20 a week. 
 Now, this is the way to work: a used Honda Civic. A 60-mile drive to his new office in South Brunswick, N.J. An hour and a half on the road, with luck. And $1,650 a year for insurance. He calls his car the beast, and he hates it. But what he and his wife hate more is the thought of moving. 
"We don't have anything against New Jersey," he said. "We just don't want to live there. We're New York City people."
In an overcrowded metropolitan region -- where people have often chosen their homes because of where their jobs are or their jobs because of where their homes are -- Kristian Areche and his wife are among those people now facing a set of tough choices about both life and work.
Mr. Areche, a page designer for The Wall Street Journal, is one of the workers displaced from the World Trade Center area who will not be coming back to Manhattan.
There may soon be many more like him. Former Manhattan employees of Citigroup and Deloitte & Touche might wind up in Connecticut. Corporate campuses from Jersey City to Princeton to Parsippany, N.J., might take workers from Merrill Lynch and American Express.
Officials have estimated that 100,000 jobs were displaced by the attacks. Many companies have not made final decisions on which employees will remain in satellite offices, and there are no statistics yet on how many have moved to the suburbs so far. But people involved in the financial services industry predict there could be tens of thousands who arranged their lives around commuting to Lower Manhattan who will never return there. Because many financial companies already had cheaper office space in the suburbs, it became easier for them after the twin towers attack to transfer some of their operations to those offices.
Many companies that have moved some of their employees from Manhattan would not let their workers discuss the relocation publicly, partly because the companies were afraid of being seen as abandoning Manhattan.
But many of the displaced workers now think of themselves as urban exiles, piecing together tough new trips from bus, ferry and train schedules. Some are doing the reverse commute, from city to suburb. Others are trying to make their way from suburb to suburb, along transit lines not intended to move people efficiently that way.
They are confronting questions they never imagined.
Some are wrenching: Do we pull up stakes and move to be closer to the new office? Do we pull our kids out of the school we worked so hard to get them into? Or do we try to rearrange our lives around a two-hour-plus trip to work?
Other questions seem trivial, in light of what has happened. But as people who made their careers in Manhattan try to write new formulas for enjoying their lives again, those questions are important, too. Such as: Do I really want to work in the suburbs?
Mr. Areche, 28, and his wife, Harriba, a bartender in NoHo, used to go out in the city on Fridays, the only work night she got off early. Now he spends Friday nights on the road.
He used to buy a paper on the way to the subway and read it on the train. But he can't read the paper and steer at the same time. He used to get a sandwich at his favorite deli near the World Financial Center. Now when he wants a bite, he usually drives to a strip-mall restaurant like T.G.I. Friday on Route 1.
"To go anywhere around here you have to drive," he said last week, in his car. "It's too far to walk. Where are you going to walk? Into the woods? To see a deer?"
Mr. Areche, one of about 250 workers at The Journal whose jobs have been transferred permanently to South Brunswick, takes pains to stress that his problems are paltry compared with those of people who lost loved ones or jobs as a result of the attacks.
Dow Jones, The Journal's corporate parent, has provided hotel rooms and other commuting assistance to soften the blow as he and other workers decide how they will deal with the transfers.
But many have already had enough of a glimpse of their new commuting trip and new office to know what it will mean for their lives.
One Dow Jones employee now working in South Brunswick had bought a house in Westchester just before the attack. Another lives on the Upper East Side and her new trip usually clocks in at more than two hours, door to door.
Paul Bernard, who runs an executive coaching and career management firm in Manhattan, said he had had many clients since the terror attacks who found themselves grappling with the rearranged geography of their lives. They were asking him whether they could find another job, back in the city or closer to home. Or they were thinking about moving closer to the new office.
But Mr. Bernard cautions them to be careful, because they may uproot themselves only to find that their company shrinks, they lose their job and they have moved for nothing.
The other option, finding a new job, and in the right location, is not so easy anymore.
"For a long time around here, with the economy so good, people have worked on the assumption that they can have everything," he said. "And that is not the case anymore. For many people, if they want their job, they may have to face the commuting problems that people face in London and in Los Angeles, where a two-hour drive is not uncommon."
Mr. Bernard described one Manhattan couple, who did not want to be identified, in which the husband is now working in New Jersey, with a long trip, and does not know if his financial-services job will return him to Manhattan. The wife is a successful lawyer. They just had their second child. Their lives -- already built on "thin margins of comfort" in being able to handle everything -- have become a scramble.
"They're both questioning how long they're going to be able to handle this," he said. He added that they had considered moving to Chicago, where they thought it would be easier to find a downtown job and afford a downtown lifestyle.
Glenda Williams, an associate senior director at the Consortium for Worker Education, a nonprofit organization that is helping train and place lower-income workers affected by the attacks, said she had also been hearing from workers with severe new commuting problems.
"They call in on our hot line," Ms. Williams said, "and they say, 'My company has moved to Jersey, way out there somewhere, and I don't have a car. What am I going to do? Or, 'They've moved to Long Island, and I told them I can't go out there and so they just laid me off.' It's a very hard time for a lot of people right now."
Mr. Areche thinks he can make it all work.
But he lasted only three days on New Jersey Transit trains before giving up in exasperation.
"It just took too long," he said. "You have to arrange your whole day around the train schedule." He rented a car. Then he finally "broke the piggy bank" and bought the first car he had owned since 1989.
His inexperience as a suburban commuter showed. The first car he bought, on eBay, turned out to be a lemon, and he had to tow it back to the seller using his rental car. His next purchase was the 1989 powder-blue Civic, with rusted-through fenders and 168,795 miles. It cost $600, plus $200 for a tuneup. The windows whistle when it gets past 50 miles per hour.
He considers himself lucky because his shift begins at 3 p.m. and ends at 10, so he misses the rush-hour traffic both ways. But his luck usually runs out when he gets back to the city. Last Wednesday, he spent 45 minutes looking for a parking place near his apartment.
"Everybody else is already home and parked by the time I'm looking for a spot," he said. "It wears you out."
He has considered renting an apartment near South Brunswick, where he could bunk some nights of the week. But his wife, who moved to the city six years ago from France, has said she might as well go back to France if she is never going to see her husband. Mr. Areche adds that if they have children, he does not know how they will be able to deal with his trip to work.
"We're just not sure what we're going to do," he said. "I love my job, I really do. And I love where I live. It's where I know everybody. We're really going to try to make it work."
Others are not quite so sure.
Ben Craft, who works on the copy desk at The Wall Street Journal, has an even more difficult trip, from Port Chester, N.Y., to South Brunswick. Most nights he stays in a New Jersey hotel because it is just too difficult to go back and forth: The trip, about 80 miles, using Metro-North, New Jersey Transit and a Dow Jones shuttle from the train station, usually takes more than three hours.
"I have a job, I didn't lose anybody, I'm not hurt, so I can't really complain," said Mr. Craft, 27, sitting at his new desk the other day. "But this is not the kind of experience I want to be having at this point in my life."
"It's just not the same getting out of a shuttle bus on a corporate campus in New Jersey as it was stepping out of the subway and walking past Wall Street," he added. "You felt like you were right in the middle of things. Now, you have this feeling that you've been, well, back-officed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kristian Areche bought a used car to get to his new office in South Brunswick, N.J., where he has worked since Sept. 11. "We don't have anything against New Jersey," he said. "We just don't want to live there." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey outlining the old and new trips: Mr. Areche's work trip has gone from half an hour to an hour and a half.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); TRENDS (78%); TRAINS (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); HIJACKING (68%); CITIES (68%); AIRLINES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; COMMUTING; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (82%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%)

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1057 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Finance 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I am astonished that while American special forces are hunting Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan and Congressional and Postal Service employees line up to be tested for anthrax, you continue to obsess about "campaign donors" (editorial, Oct. 25). It has become difficult to take seriously an editorial page that argues that in the wake of the attacks on our country, missile defense is less relevant while simultaneously arguing that campaign finance reform is "more important than ever" (editorial, Oct. 16). 
 With confidence in government at all-time highs, campaign finance reform is clearly a solution in search of a problem. Americans ranked it near the bottom of their list of priorities before Sept. 11; now it has appropriately dropped off the list completely as the president, Congress and the country are focusing on terrorism and the economy.

MITCH MCCONNELL
U.S. Senator from Kentucky
Washington, Oct. 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALIBAN (88%); ANTHRAX (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); HIJACKING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (72%) ;MCCONNELL, MITCH (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES; AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1058 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Quaking Moderates 

 BODY:
As the Senate prepares to consider an economic stimulus package, the atmosphere is much different from earlier this year, when it passed President Bush's unaffordable and unfair tax cuts. Back then many moderate Republicans and Democrats voted for what they saw as a popular program to share the surplus with the taxpayers, despite their own quiet misgivings. Now there is a sense of crisis, demands for sacrifice, a realization that the federal surplus is gone and a determination to pass something that will actually boost the economy. Unfortunately, the stimulus package being put together by the Republican Senate leadership fails in every way to address the new circumstances. 
 The full package is to be unveiled today by Charles Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. The advance indications are that its centerpiece is an acceleration of all the top-bracket tax cuts that were to have been phased in by existing law. This is an almost shocking proposal, by some estimates transferring more than half the tax cut to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers. Not a single American is unaware that the United States faces a long and potentially costly new era of spending on security needs at home and abroad. Cutting taxes for the wealthy in the next fiscal year does nothing to stimulate the economy now and undercuts the whole idea of equity in the tax system. 
 The business tax breaks being readied by the Finance Committee Republicans are in some respects not as bad as the ones passed in the House, whose stimulus package was so weighted down with corporate giveaways that the Republican leadership could barely shove it through. But the Grassley proposals would still not take effect in time to stimulate the economy.The business tax cuts would also have an adverse impact on state budgets. Many states base their own tax receipts on federal corporate tax rates. Dozens of states are facing deficits and cutbacks next year, and they cannot afford a Congressional tax cut that forces states to raise taxes or cut spending.
The Republican proposals are attempts to push the stimulus plans in the wrong direction. Moderates in both parties need to put together a package that does more than reward the campaign donor class. Many moderate Democrats are now aware that, in going with Mr. Bush's program earlier this year, they were hoodwinked because the package that finally passed was filled with gimmicks and tricks disguising its truly regressive identity. They, and the country, cannot afford to be fooled again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1059 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE POLL; 
Survey Shows Doubts Stirring On Terror War

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Americans for the first time are raising doubts about whether the nation can accomplish its objectives in fighting terrorism at home and abroad, including capturing or killing Osama bin Laden, saving the international alliance from unraveling and protecting people from future attacks, the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows.
 Despite threats about anthrax unfolding virtually every day and little discernible progress in the air campaign against the Taliban, Americans are still offering President Bush their overwhelming approval. 
 Mr. Bush's job approval rating, which soared after Sept. 11, stands firm at 87 percent. And Congress has an approval rating of 67 percent, the highest since the Times/CBS News Poll began asking about it in the 1970's. 
Even so, after six weeks in which people were not inclined to critique aspects of the government's response, there are stirrings of discontent that extend both to how the nation is responding to domestic terrorism and to how it is handling the war. 
The public is questioning whether the government is doing enough to forestall what it increasingly expects to be another terrorist attack in this country within months. Fifty-three percent say another attack is very likely, up from 46 percent two weeks ago and 36 percent two weeks before that. Most people say they expect the attack to be in the form of bioterrorism. These responses came before Attorney General John Ashcroft announced yesterday that new terrorist attacks were expected as soon as this week.
Yet more than half the public says the government in Washington has not done enough to prepare for a biological attack, and nor have state and local governments.
Nearly half of Americans say the government is withholding information they need to know about the recent anthrax cases. More than a quarter say public health officials are wrong in advising people not to ask their own doctors for Cipro, an antibiotic used in treating anthrax.
While security has been tightened at airports, leading to the now-common sight of long lines, Americans are still jumpy about flying. They want the federal government to take complete control of hiring and supervising all airport security personnel.
The nationwide telephone poll of 1,024 adults was conducted Thursday through Sunday. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Tom Cale, a poll respondent who sells cars in Fairmont, W.Va., is among those who support the nation's leaders but have nagging concerns. 
"It's not that we don't have competent people in positions of authority," Mr. Cale, 50, said in a follow-up interview. "They just haven't written the book yet about the potential dangers that are out there."
Bracing for more terror, Mr. Cale said: "The next attack would be what you least suspect. It's going to be something that few people would see that would affect the most people, like sabotaging gas supply lines, or taking out two or three main power stations."
Joan Kautz, 49, a clerk for a rental car agency in Linden, N.J., said: "With the added security at the airport, bioterrorism is the only way to get in here. That's why they've used the mail, and even now the government is not protecting our postal workers."
In one of the most striking shifts, only 18 percent of Americans said they had a great deal of confidence that the government could protect them from terrorism; a month ago, 35 percent had such confidence. A majority, 58 percent, said they had a fair amount of confidence. The rest had little or no confidence.
Similarly, people feel that the government can protect them from anthrax and smallpox, but the degree of confidence is another matter. Only 15 percent have a great deal of confidence that the government can protect them from anthrax; 19 percent say the same about smallpox.
Beyond the efforts at home, Americans are not entirely satisfied with the military action in Afghanistan and seem less hopeful than they were before the bombing began. Although most respondents said the war was going well for the United States, the largest proportion -- 58 percent -- said it was going only somewhat well. Twenty-five percent said it was going very well, and 13 percent said the war was going badly.
Only 28 percent are very confident that the United States will capture or kill Mr. bin Laden, who is believed to be the mastermind behind the Sept. 11 attacks. In a CBS News poll two weeks earlier, 38 percent said they were very confident.
"Osama bin Laden is like a ghost," said Eleanor Roth, 67, a retired receptionist from Dayton, Ohio. "I would rather him be captured than killed to avoid him being labeled a martyr. Maybe they will find him, but then again, many of these terrorists have been on the loose for years. And with all of our technology, it doesn't seem to make a difference."
James Oleszcsuk, 57, a longshoreman from Baltimore, was even less optimistic. 
"It won't be easy getting bin Laden," Mr. Oleszcsuk said. "First it was weeks, then months, now years to get this guy. It makes me wonder what kind of intelligence reports the government is getting. You hear so many things, you don't know what to believe. The political implications of capturing him would be problematic with many of the Middle Eastern countries. I don't think it's going to happen."
In another sign of mounting uneasiness about the war, only 29 percent said they were very confident in the ability of the United States government to maintain the international alliance of countries that support the military campaign; two weeks ago, 46 percent were very confident.
The public is prepared for a long and bloody conflict in Afghanistan; a majority of Americans say they are willing to accept the deaths of several thousand American troops there. Eight out of 10 respondents said they thought the conflict would extend beyond Afghanistan into neighboring countries and other parts of the world.
"I wouldn't be surprised if this war took three to five years," said Judy Adams, 48, a homemaker from Jonesville, La. "We have fought for our country for over 200 years to keep our land and our families safe. If we don't stand behind our president and pull together as a nation, we're not going to see our land stand."
Americans continue to view Israel favorably while they back the establishment of a Palestinian homeland in the occupied territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. About half the public views Saudi Arabia as a friend of the United States but not an ally.
There were signs of anxiety in the poll, perhaps because it was conducted at a time when developments have made people feel more vulnerable. In recent days, the Bush administration and leaders on Capitol Hill appeared to lack a coordinated message in responding to the anthrax threat.
Most Americans say they have been closely following the news about anthrax sent through the mail, and many have begun handling their own mail more cautiously.
The poll turned up mixed messages about the extent to which people are panicky. While they are concerned about whether the government can protect them, Americans are calm at home. Only a quarter say they are worried about terrorism in their own communities. While 20 percent of Americans say they are more on edge now than they were before the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, few say they are having trouble sleeping or are experiencing a loss of income.
For all their misgivings about the government's capacity to protect them, the public remains steadfast behind its leaders. Most people say that Mr. Bush has clearly explained the goals of both the military action in Afghanistan and the war against terrorism in general.
Nearly 8 in 10 respondents approve of the way Mr. Bush is handling the war on terrorism; more than 6 in 10 approve his handling of the economy. Six in 10 Americans now say the country is moving in the right direction. Last June, well before the attacks, only 4 in 10 said the same thing.
The public's support for its leaders and government extends far beyond the White House. Over almost the last three decades, the job approval rating for Congress has never approached 67 percent, where it stands today.
The Watergate scandals first eroded the public's trust in government. For more than 27 years, people said they were more distrustful of government than trusting.
But in the aftermath of Sept. 11, people hold a different view. Now, more than half of Americans said they trusted the government to do what was right just about always or most of the time. In 1998, when the Times/CBS News Poll last asked the question, only 26 percent said they trusted the government.
Still, the poll found that the public was not prepared for a more activist government. Despite the high profile of many government agencies since Sept. 11, people still favored a smaller government with fewer services over a bigger government with more services, 52 percent to 43 percent.
Julie Hartfield, 22, a nursing assistant in Rochester, N.Y., said she did not know what to expect now.
"I feel like America was a little too sure of itself, thinking that no one could touch us," Ms. Hartfield said. "After the first anthrax outbreak, they should have made sure security was tight. Now there are outbreaks all over the place, and you wonder, 'What's next?' "

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Thursday through Sunday with 1,024 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age, marital status and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Support, and Worry"Do you approve of the military attacks led by the United States against Afghanistan? APPROVE -- 88%DISAPPROVE -- 8% Would the war in Afghanistan be worth the cost if several thousand American troops lost their lives? YES -- 61%NO -- 27% Has the government done enough to prepare to handle a possible biological attack? YES -- 35%NO -- 53% (The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. A1) Chart: "Views on War and Terror"OVERALL SUPPORT REMAINS HIGH . . . Graph tracks answers to the following questions: Do you approve of the way President Bush is handling his job? and Do you approve of the way Congress is handling its job? since April. . . . BUT CONFIDENCE HAS WEAKENED . . . How confident are you that the United States government will capture or kill Osama bin Laden? Oct. 8VERY: 38%SOMEWHAT: 38NOT TOO: 16NOT AT ALL: 5 Oct. 25-28VERY: 28%SOMEWHAT: 42NOT TOO: 20NOT AT ALL: 7 How confident are you in the ability of the United States government to maintain the alliance of countries that are supporting our military efforts? Oct. 8VERY: 46%SOMEWHAT: 44NOT TOO: 7 Oct. 25-28VERY: 29%SOMEWHAT: 55NOT TOO: 11NOT AT ALL: 2 How much confidence do you have in the ability of the United States government to protect its citizens from future terrorist attacks? Sept. 20-23GREAT DEAL: 35%FAIR AMOUNT: 53NOT MUCH: 10NONE: 1 Oct. 25-28GREAT DEAL: 18%FAIR AMOUNT: 58NOT MUCH: 20NONE: 4 . . . AND THERE IS CONCERN ABOUT THE FUTURE. How likely is it that there will be another terrorist attack on the United States within the next few months? Sept. 20-23VERY: 36%SOMEWHAT: 42NOT TOO: 16NOT AT ALL: 4 Oct. 8VERY: 46%SOMEWHAT: 39NOT TOO: 8NOT AT ALL: 3 Oct. 25-28VERY: 53%SOMEWHAT: 35NOT TOO: 8NOT AT ALL: 2 Is the government telling people everything they need to know about the anthrax attacks? YES: 47%NO: 50 Those with no opinion are not shown.Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted Oct. 25 through 28 with 1,024 respondents. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); AIRPORTS (85%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TALIBAN (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); AIRPORT OPERATION (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (62%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONGRESS (US) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1060 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS; 
Series vs. Jordan? Hair's the Winner

BYLINE:  By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
It is baseball's rotten luck to have tonight's Game 3 of the World Series compete against Michael Jordan's return in the baggy shorts of the Washington Wizards against the Knicks. Curiosity about Jordan may be enough for his game to seriously dent the viewership of Fox's broadcast of the pitching matchup of Roger Clemens, with his hamstrung hamstring, against Brian Anderson.
 For those conflicted over whether to watch Game 3 on Fox or Jordan on MSG (locally) and TBS (nationally, but blacked out in the New York market), here is some guidance to watching one, the other or both: 
 OWNERSHIP Look at it as a choice between the kindly old Wizards owner, Abe Pollin, a Yoda-like character who once told Jordan to buzz off and the blustery, turtlenecked George Steinbrenner, a "Seinfeld" character who once told Ken Clay to buzz off. Advantage: Jordan. 
THE TOUGHER SPORT Jordan was better at buying a nice bus for his minor league team than he was at playing baseball, evidence that baseball is tougher than basketball. If Jordan could only bat against Randy Johnson, this verdict would be reversed. Advantage: World Series.
LENGTH OF GAME The Wizards-Knicks game will tip off soon after 7:30 p.m., the Arizona-Yankees game at nearly 8:30, enough time to see nearly the entire first half before the first pitch. Jordan's return will end by 9:45, which should be the bottom of the second at Yankee Stadium. Advantage: Jordan.
THE HAIR FACTOR Knicks Coach Jeff Van Gundy has the oddest hair of all sports coaches and managers (winning in a romp over New Mexico State's basketball coach, Lou Henson), and he seems not to care; Yankees Manager Joe Torre can cover his stray strands along his hairline with a cap. Advantage: World Series.
SHAVED HEAD FACTOR Jordan versus Arizona's Matt Williams versus the Yankees' Don Zimmer. The look favors Jordan, in a way that makes you believe that Yul Brynner copied him. Williams looks cue ball pasty. Zim looks cute, but good luck/honeydew cute. Advantage: Jordan.
MEDIOCRITY VS. THE BEST Jordan, 38, is the best scorer on a bad team, which is like being Red Klotz on the Washington Generals. The Knicks are a grinding, enervating team. But the Yankees and Diamondbacks are league champions and won more than 90 games each. Be serious -- Derek Jeteror Jahidi White? Advantage: World Series.
THE ANNOUNCERS Locally, it is MSG's Marv Albert and Walt Frazier against Fox's Joe Buck and Tim McCarver. Buck is part of a two-person announcing dynasty, with his father, Jack. The Alberts have four voices, including Steve, who hosts the "Battle Dome" syndicated extreme sports warrior series. And while McCarver likes wordplay, he has never described anything as "hooping or scooping," although Curt Schilling's split-fingered fastball produced great rhyming temptation. Advantage: Even.
PREGAME BUZZ TBS/TNT's Charles Barkley over Fox's Kevin Kennedy. TBS and TNT's "Inside the N.B.A." (the TBS program tonight at 7 is not blacked out locally) is longer than Fox's pregame program and a lot more fun. Yesterday, Barkley said the preseason Jordan was as good as he was going to get. "Don't you think he has another notch to turn it up?" asked his partner, Kenny Smith. "No way," Barkley said. Expect a mirthful debate over whether the number of pounds Barkley will lose will match Jordan's scoring average. Advantage: Jordan.
ECONOMIC VALUE Jordan's career value to the economy was pegged at $10 billion by Fortune magazine several years ago, and now that he is back, he is expected to pull the economy out of the recession, find Osama bin Laden and make purple popular for reasons that exclude dinosaurs named Barney. The Yankees' new YES network is valued at nearly $900 million. Advantage: Jordan.
THE BUILDINGS Tough choice between Yankee Stadium, 78, and Madison Square Garden, 33. You can wax about the Krispy Kreme shop at Penn Station, but nothing at the Garden compares with the not-exactly-a-cemetery attraction that is Monument Park. At the Garden, you walk on its Walk of Fame plaques on the floor outside the lobby. Clemens communes with Babe Ruth's plaque; we can trample on Willis Reed's. Advantage: World Series.

Airwaves
Bob Wolff has created a sobering, must-watch three-part series for MSG's "SportsDesk" on the dangers of aluminum bats and the economic incentives for amateur baseball to use them. The first installment ran last night; the next two run tonight and Friday night at 10:30. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); BASEBALL (91%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); SPORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%) BASKETBALL; TELEVISION; BASEBALL; WORLD SERIES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (92%); NEW YORK YANKEES (82%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (59%) WASHINGTON WIZARDS; NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; NEW YORK YANKEES; ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS 

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (92%) SANDOMIR, RICHARD; JORDAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1061 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
A Pivotal Choice for Cingular Wireless

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Cingular Wireless, the nation's second-largest mobile phone carrier, intends to announce broad changes in its technology today, people close to the company said yesterday. The decision will benefit some of Europe's largest communications equipment companies at the expense of competitors in the United States and Canada.
 Cingular, which has 21.3 million customers, has decided to overlay a cellular communications technology called global system for mobile communications, or GSM, across its nationwide network, the people close to the company said. The decision is part of a shift to a technology that is widespread in Europe and Asia but that has only recently gained ground in the United States. 
 Cingular, which is second in the number of customers to Verizon Wireless, will award about $3 billion of equipment contracts to three European companies as part of the announcement. The companies -- Nokia of Finland, Ericsson of Sweden and Siemens of Germany -- will produce handsets and network gear for Cingular, a venture based in Atlanta that is 60 percent-owned by SBC Communications and the rest by BellSouth.
The move by Cingular is seen as a blow to companies like Lucent Technologies, of Murray Hill, N.J., and Nortel Networks of Canada, which compete with the European concerns for large equipment contracts. A Lucent spokeswoman said yesterday that a decision by Cingular to opt for GSM technology would not endanger the company's current contracts. Lucent had stopped developing equipment that could have been used in a Cingular GSM system.
Cingular's choice of GSM technology is also a blow to Qualcomm, which pioneered a competing technology called code division multiple access, or C.D.M.A.
Cingular opted for the European technology for several reasons. Because GSM is more common than other wireless standards, the company expects to take advantage of economies of scale and make cheaper purchases of handsets and network equipment.
Also, about 30 percent of Cingular's territory is already served by GSM technology, so the company will have to spend less to install a single technological standard across its network. The technology Cingular will be replacing is called time division multiple access, or T.D.M.A. 
In addition, GSM may make it easier for Cingular to share its network with those of other companies, or to eventually merge with a company in the United States or Europe. And much new wireless technology is based on the GSM system.
Cingular provided a glimpse into potential network-sharing agreements with a deal it made with VoiceStream Wireless, a unit of Deutsche Telekom, earlier this month. Under the deal, Cingular and VoiceStream agreed to share systems in New York, California and Nevada. 
The planned announcement in New York today by Cingular's chief executive, Stephen Carter, is also important for wireless customers in New York City and its suburbs, a region where the company did not have a notable presence until the VoiceStream deal. Cingular customers from other parts of the country will have an easier time using their service in New York because of the VoiceStream deal and the shift in technology. 
Cingular, which will immediately begin overlaying GSM technology on its network, will also announce plans today to adopt a new technology for its next-generation networks, which are expected to increase the Internet services available on mobile phones. This technology is known as EDGE, for enhanced data rate for global evolution.
Cingular follows AT&T Wireless Services and VoiceStream in opting for GSM technology. Among the largest wireless carriers in the United States, Verizon, Sprint PCS and Nextel Communications still operate with technologies that are more common in the United States than in other countries.
Another reason Cingular chose GSM over competing technologies may have to do with negotiations in Washington to transfer ownership of spectrum licenses from NextWave Telecom, a bankrupt wireless company, to Cingular and other large carriers. 
The companies are making progress toward reaching a settlement in which it would be easier for Cingular to overlay GSM technology across its network. If Cingular thought that it could not obtain additional airwaves from a settlement with NextWave, the company might have surprised the industry by opting for C.D.M.A. technology, analysts said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Carter, Cingular's chief, may also touch on Internet access from next-generation networks. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (90%); TIME DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (89%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); AT&T INC (91%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (91%); SIEMENS AG (90%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (84%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (82%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%); QUALCOMM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CINGULAR WIRELESS; NOKIA OY AB; ERICSSON AB; SIEMENS AG 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%); ERIC.B (STO) (91%); ERIC.A (STO) (91%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (91%); SIN (SWX) (90%); SIE (LSE) (90%); SIE (FRA) (90%); SIE (BIT) (90%); SI (NYSE) (90%); ALU (PAR) (84%); ALU (NYSE) (84%); ALU (BIT) (84%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); GERMANY (58%); FINLAND (58%) EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001 



1062 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Honda Profit Rose Sharply in Last Quarter 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Profits were up sharply at Honda Motor in the quarter ended Sept. 30 because of strong sales, cost reductions and a favorable trend in exchange rates, the company said today.
 Net income rose 45.2 percent from the comparable period in 2000, to 84.3 billion yen ($691 million), on a 16.1 percent rise in sales. 
In North America, where Honda sells more than half its cars, sales rose 7.3 percent, but the positive effect on profits was amplified by a 14 percent fall in the yen's value against the dollar over the first half of Honda's fiscal year, which began on April 1. 
 The company said that although the economy is "severe" and "unpredictable" in its main markets, the United States and Japan, it expects profits of 330 billion yen ($2.7 billion) for the fiscal year, 4.8 percent higher than it had first estimated. 
Analysts said Honda's heavy dependence on the American market makes it vulnerable as the United States economy slows down. Honda makes some of the cars it sells there at American plants, but it supplies others from Japan, and Honda's automobile exports from Japan fell 14.5 percent in the six months ended Sept. 30, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said. 
Honda and other Japanese carmakers generally do better in tough times than their American rivals because many consumers view Japanese cars as cheaper to run and requiring less fuel and fewer repairs.
"The resilience of the Japanese automakers during the last 20 years should serve them well in the next 20 months," said Stephen Usher, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities in Tokyo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%) COMPANY REPORTS; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (55%) HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1063 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: German Art Arrives In Its Bijou Museum; 
Lauder's Pet Project Nears Completion

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
As workers scrambled one recent morning to put finishing touches on the Neue Galerie before its official opening on Nov. 16, Ronald S. Lauder arrived at the Louis XIII-style mansion, on 86th Street and Fifth Avenue, and headed straight to the director's office on the top floor. There, in a sunny space filled with furniture and objects by early 20th-century architects and designers like Otto Wagner and Josef Hoffmann, he zeroed in on a large wooden crate leaning against a wall. 
 "You can't open that yet," said Renee Price, the director of the new museum, moving to head him off, as if trying to stop a child bent on ripping open a Christmas present before the magic day. 
 Visibly disappointed, Mr. Lauder moved on, explaining that the crate contained the original table from Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona Pavilion. "To have a museum of German art with that table is quite incredible," he said. 
Mr. Lauder's new museum was born of the same tradition that gave rise to two of Manhattan's small gems, the Frick Collection and the Morgan Library. Like the industrialists Henry Clay Frick and J. P. Morgan, Mr. Lauder is blessed with deep pockets, a passion for collecting and a sure eye.
The Neue Galerie, devoted entirely to German and Austrian fine and decorative arts, is the result of an idea he hatched 10 years ago with another passionate collector, Serge Sabarsky, a dealer and collector of German and Austrian Expressionist art, who died in 1996.
Decisions about everything from the 600-page inaugural catalog to the typeface used for the wall labels have been overseen by Mr. Lauder, the chairman of Estee Lauder International, as well as of the Museum of Modern Art, and a former United States ambassador to Austria.
His interest in German and Austrian art dates to 1957 when as a 13-year-old he used money given to him for his bar mitzvah to buy an Egon Schiele drawing. "Later, when I began seriously collecting I couldn't afford Matisse or Picasso," Mr. Lauder said, "and I quickly realized that the works of Klimt, Schiele, Kandinsky and Klee were in the same league but were a lot cheaper."
Today his private collections span everything from rare Greek and Roman antiquities to contemporary art by masters like Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg -- but the Neue Galerie is the culmination of his first art-world love.
Mr. Lauder, who spent $20 million to buy and renovate the Neue Galerie building, not including the millions he has put into art for the museum -- last May at Sotheby's he paid $22.5 million for a rare self-portrait by Max Beckmann -- said unapologetically, "It's a unique luxury."
The first exhibition, "New Worlds: German and Austrian Art, 1890-1940," will feature works from the museum's permanent collection, and loans from the Sabarsky collection and the Lauder family. It is to run through Feb. 18. 
At a time when many museums are struggling with slashed budgets and sagging attendance, the Neue Galerie is a tiny oasis sheltered from today's shaky economy and the impact of the World Trade Center attacks.
The name is a nod to its Central European heritage, inspired by Vienna's famous Neue Galerie, which was founded in 1923 and became one of the most important places to see the work of artists like Klimt, Schiele and others associated with the Secession, the turn-of-the-last-century revolt against academic art.
As the capital of a powerful European empire, 1900 Vienna was a place whose great outpouring of creativity and intellectual ferment contained the seeds of some of the 20th century's most important artistic and intellectual movements. 
Mr. Lauder first met Sabarsky in 1967 when he was just 23, when his brother, Leonard, took him to Sabarsky's Riverside Drive apartment to show him a drawing. "I still remember walking into the entrance and seeing 12 drawings and watercolors by Egon Schiele," Mr. Lauder recalled. "I spent the whole time transfixed. Seeing my reaction, Serge realized he'd met a person as crazy as himself."
The friendship, which lasted 30 years, was bonded by their ardor for the work of artists like Beckmann, Klimt and Kokoschka. "Starting this museum was our dream," he said. 
Two years before he died Mr. Sabarsky bought the six-story brick and limestone mansion on 86th Street designed by Carrere & Hastings, the architects who built the New York Public Library. The Sabarsky Foundation paid $9 million for the building, specifically to turn it into a museum, and later sold it to Mr. Lauder. 
While he provided the money to buy and renovate the building and establish a permanent collection for the museum, he does not plan to support it entirely out of his own pocket. The institution, like its neighbors the Guggenheim, the Metropolitan and the Whitney, is a nonprofit tax-exempt institution with an educational mandate and a board primarily made up of museum professionals from here and abroad. And like its larger neighbors, the Neue Galerie plans to apply for city and state financing to help pay for operations once it is up and running. 
As chairman of the Museum of Modern Art, Mr. Lauder has been one of the institution's biggest benefactors, responsible for some of its most significant acquisitions. When news of the Neue Galerie began circulating around the art world, some people wondered how it would affect his involvement with the Modern.
"Before I did anything I sat down with people from the Modern," he said. "The Modern's collection of German Expressionist art is superb. The two collections will work well together." His argument is that if the Modern had the Neue Galerie's collection it would have room to show only one or two pieces, even with its forthcoming expansion. "The collection would get lost there," he said, adding that the two museums plan to collaborate on many projects.
"We're a small, specialized institution," he said. "We're not trying to be the Modern."
To renovate the Neue Galerie building, Mr. Lauder hired Annabelle Selldorf, a German-born architect known for her sensitive approach to art-related projects. In addition to 4,300 square feet of exhibition space on the second and third floors, the building houses a bookstore, a design shop that will sell reproductions of objects by masters like Adolf Loos and Josef Hoffmann, and a Viennese cafe named for Mr. Sabarsky. 
Cafe Sabarsky was inspired by the great cafes where Viennese society, its artists and intellectuals met to exchange ideas on art, music, social theory and psychoanalysis. The cafe retains the mansion's original wood paneling and features a Hoffmann chandelier and reproduction bentwood furniture typical of the era. It will be run by Kurt Gutenbrunner, the owner and chef of the nouvelle Austrian restaurant Wallse in the West Village.
Revenue from the shops, restaurant and $10 admission charge is expected to offset some of the museum's operating costs, including salaries of its 18-person staff.
Both the cafe and bookstore will be open six days a week. The museum will be open only four. When the Neue Galerie opens it will have capacity to accommodate only about 350 visitors at a time, officials said. They project 150,000 to 200,000 visitors by the end of the first year.
So far the museum's collections consist of over 800 works from Sabarsky's Foundation, 500 from Mr. Lauder and his family and about 100 works purchased by the museum with funds provided by Mr. Lauder.
Among the three sources, the museum will have access to more than 100 paintings and works on paper by both Klimt and Schiele, making it the largest concentration of works by these artists outside Vienna. 
There are parallels between the fears and anxieties being felt today in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks and those expressed by the artists on view at the Neue Galerie. "Some like Otto Dix, Max Beckmann Kokoschka and Kirchner went through World War I and never quite recovered," Ms. Price said. "The aftermath, the anxiety, is so prevalent in their work. Also, being labeled a degenerate artist was something many artists never overcame."
Speaking of the collection, Mr. Lauder said, "Most of these things have never been seen in public before." In addition to showing its permanent collection, which will rotate every six months, the museum plans to do two loan exhibitions a year that will travel to other institutions. A show of early Kokoschka portraits that opens in March 2002 will travel to the Hamburger Kunsthalle in Hamburg, Germany. 
Paintings, furniture and objects are shown together in context. In one room, for example, there are six paintings by Klimt, including two portraits of women, one of the Baroness Elisabeth Bachofen-Echt and the other an anonymous portrait called "The Dancer," one of the artist's last paintings. They hang alongside a painted beechwood table designed in 1904 by Koloman Moser, the Viennese Modernist painter and furniture designer. The work was executed by the Wiener Werkstatte, that group of artists and designers who produced everything from paintings to teaspoons in Vienna around 1900. In the same room are three clocks by Austrian architects -- Loos, Hans Prutscher and Joseph Urban. 
The second and third floors have been turned into exhibition spaces. The second floor is devoted to Austrian art, in particular the work of Klimt, Schiele and Kokoschka, along with objects by Loos and another Viennese architect, Otto Wagner. The third floor will feature early 20th-century German art by masters like Beckmann, Klee, Nolde and Dix along with decorative arts from Bauhaus architects and designers like Marcel Breuer and Mies van der Rohe. 
Mr. Lauder hopes the institution will become something of a hangout. On Sunday mornings he plans to hold small chamber music concerts similar to ones he heard while he was living in Vienna. "People can have a great breakfast at the cafe and then go upstairs and listen to chamber music," he said. 
Mr. Lauder says he believes there is a whole generation of young collectors with a terrific appetite for German and Austrian art. "They're discovering it for the same reason I did," he said. "There are still great pieces to be discovered, and there is still much to learn." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Neue Galerie, left, has long been a dream of Ronald S. Lauder, above. Below, Egon Schiele's 1910 self-portrait. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times, above and left; below, Neue Galerie)(pg. E1); Erich Heckel's "Girl With Doll (Franzi)" is in the Neue Galerie's opening show, called "New Worlds: German and Austrian Art, 1890-1940." (Neue Galerie)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); AUCTIONS (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (71%); VISUAL ARTS (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%); LIBRARIES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%) ART 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NEUE GALERIE NEW YORK 

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%)

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; LAUDER, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) GERMANY (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); UNITED STATES (78%) GERMANY; AUSTRIA

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1064 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Caught in Terror's Undertow 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: DERBY, England, Oct. 27 

 BODY:
The day after the terror attacks in New York and Washington, Mick Lomax, a labor union official here, started waiting for what he knew -- and dreaded -- would be coming. 
 As the initial shock and disbelief subsided, he began to envision the chain of events to come: airline passengers would stop flying, airlines would cut back on schedules, jets would be mothballed, orders for new ones would be postponed or canceled. 
 And the end of the line would be here, Mr. Lomax calculated: thousands of miles from the Eastern Seaboard of the United States, jobs would be lost at the Rolls-Royce P.L.C. plant in this central English city, where more than one-third of the engines powering the world's civilian airliners are produced. 
Civic survival has been a struggle here, as the big companies that once ran the city -- the railways and Rolls-Royce -- have steadily pared back their presence. In the 30 years since Rolls-Royce, then near collapse, was bailed out by the British government, its work force has dwindled by more than half, to 13,000. The drop reflects increased automation, outsourcing and other modernizations. 
Mr. Lomax was kept waiting only six weeks before the other shoe -- a big new round of layoffs -- dropped on Derby. The news highlighted the perils of depending on manufacturing as the British economy is increasingly driven by services. It also sparked a debate about whether the events of Sept. 11 have been turned into a kind of all-purpose corporate camouflage for bad news.
On Oct. 18, Rolls-Royce P.L.C. -- long ago disconnected from the luxury car company that shares its brand name and is now owned by Volkswagen -- said that it expected a 30 percent drop in sales of commercial aircraft engines next year. That would cut by 50 percent its profits from civilian aerospace, the line of business that accounts for half the company's sales. 
The other half is faring better. The military aerospace unit, based in Bristol, expects to garner about $1 billion in extra business from the winning bid of Lockheed Martin to build the Joint Strike Fighter for the Pentagon. There are also marine and energy-equipment businesses.
But the woes in civilian aerospace, the company said, mean that an additional 11 percent of its global labor force will be let go. That means a loss of 5,000 jobs worldwide, 1,000 of them in the United States and almost 2,000 here in Derby, where Rolls-Royce's fortunes and the city's have become almost interchangeable.
"A majority of people depend on Royce's," said Iris Levy, 61, referring to the company the way local residents do. A cafe worker whose son-in-law and former husband work at the plant, Mrs. Levy said her son-in-law "has got the family and the mortgage, and it'll affect him badly" if he is one of those laid off. 
The company looms so large in Derby, said Anne-Marie Miller, a 30-year-old municipal surveyor, that she could count 50 or 60 friends and relatives who work there.
Derby once had a reputation as a major center for engineering and design, particularly for the state-run national railway system. But the railways were broken up and privatized in the mid-1990's, dissolving Derby's central role. Combined with the downsizing at Rolls-Royce, Ms. Miller said, "we are losing that historical value as an industrial base."
In many ways, that is the story of Britain as a whole, which was once an industrial powerhouse but now derives only about 18.5 percent of its economic output from manufacturing. The region around Derby had been bucking the trend, retaining some engineering jobs in the railway breakup and attracting more with the construction of a major Toyota auto assembly plant. The service industries created their jobs elsewhere while Derby kept its bias toward engineering and precision manufacturing -- and because of that, the city's unemployment rate, at just over 5 percent, is now one to two percentage points higher than the national average.
Rolls-Royce remains the biggest employer in Derby, a city of 258,000, with one in every eight workers on its payroll before the latest layoff announcement. "Rolls-Royce is Derby, and Derby is Rolls-Royce," said Mr. Lomax, the labor union official. "The two are synonymous."
Mark Slaviero of the Chamber of Commerce here puts Derby's reliance on manufacturing at 28 percent of all economic output, more than half again the national average. He said the latest Rolls-Royce cutbacks had been a shock. "It's put a depressing mood over the city," Mr. Slaviero said. "There's been restructuring over the past couple of years, but I don't think people expected this."
Perhaps they should have, Mr. Lomax said. The global economy was slowing before Sept. 11, he noted, and many industries, including airlines, were feeling the pinch. Now, he said, opportunists are taking macabre advantage of the cover provided by the terrorism attacks.
"We felt there had been a lot of companies around the world using it as an excuse for what they had been wanting to do for a long time," Mr. Lomax said.
Others are less cynical, at least about Rolls-Royce, which says the layoffs are motivated solely by the business slowdown. "I don't think that anyone thought the company had any other choice," said Robert Jones, the leader of the Derby City Council, which is dominated by the Labor Party. "You can't make airplane engines if people aren't buying airplanes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many Derby residents, like Iris Levy, have relatives who work at the Rolls-Royce plant. She is worried about the effects of lost jobs.; Mick Lomax, a union official in Derby, England, said recent layoffs at the Rolls-Royce factory would hurt the town. "Rolls-Royce is Derby, and Derby is Rolls-Royce," he said. "The two are synonymous." (Photographs by Mike Sheil/Black Star for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); DISMISSALS (75%); SALES FIGURES (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION; TERRORISM; SERVICE INDUSTRIES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ROLLS-ROYCE HOLDINGS PLC (96%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ROLLS-ROYCE PLC 

TICKER: RRS (FRA) (96%); RR (LSE) (96%); LMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (90%) GREAT BRITAIN; DERBY (ENG)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1065 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR SLIDES. The dollar fell after the Conference Board said its consumer confidence index dropped to its lowest level in more than seven years. In New York, the euro settled at 90.50 cents, up from 90.32 cents on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since May 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); US DOLLAR (90%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1066 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Confidence In Economy Is at Its Lowest Since 1994 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence plummeted in October to its lowest level in more than seven years, as a growing number of Americans lost their jobs and prospects for a quick economic recovery dimmed, a private business research group said yesterday.
 The group, the Conference Board of New York, said its index plunged for a fourth consecutive month in October, to 85.5, the lowest level since February 1994 compared with 97.0 in September. 
 While some other measures of confidence have pointed to stabilization since the Sept. 11 attacks, economists generally agree that sentiment is likely to deteriorate and will threaten consumer spending, which represents about two-thirds of overall economic activity. 
"Widespread layoffs and rising unemployment do not signal a rebound in confidence any time soon," Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center, said. "With the holiday season quickly approaching, there is little positive stimuli on the horizon." 
The index's drop in October was far worse than Wall Street expectations of a decline to 95.6 and touched off a sell-off in stocks and the dollar.
The present situation index, which measures consumers' views of the economy now, fell sharply, to 107.6, its lowest since January 1996, from 125.4 in September. The expectations index, which measures consumers' outlooks for the next six months, plunged to 70.8 in October from a revised 78.1 in September.
While the overall confidence index is far above recent troughs of below 50 in the recession of the early 1990's, Ms. Franco warned it was approaching the 80.0 "recession line." She also said that the sharp fall in the present situation index "is not comforting."
In a sign the jobless rate, now at 4.9 percent, is likely to rise, 20.7 percent of consumers surveyed said jobs were "hard to get," compared with 18.8 percent in September.
The Conference Board said consumers who rated current business conditions as "bad" rose to 20.6 percent in October from 18.3 percent in September. Americans who said conditions were "good" fell to 18.9 percent from 22.3 percent, while the percentage of consumers expecting their incomes to increase fell to 17.7 percent in October from 21.1 percent in September.
Fewer consumers said they planned to buy a home within six months, and they also scaled back plans to buy major appliances.
But more Americans said they intended to buy a car, in keeping with findings last week from the University of Michigan that showed many were taking advantage of zero-interest financing for new cars offered by the automakers.
The Conference Board's survey is based on a representative sample of 5,000 households across the United States that usually receives a response rate of about 70 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. Oct.: 85.5Sept.: 97.0Aug.: 114.0 (Sources: Conference Board, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1067 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Smart Shopping by the Pentagon 

 BODY:
The Pentagon's decision to buy a new generation of stealthy fighters from Lockheed Martin can be a good deal for the military and taxpayers alike, even though total costs could run to $200 billion over the next few decades. Economies of scale and design are concepts not usually associated with mammoth Pentagon purchases. The joint strike fighter program, intended to produce more than 3,000 planes at the relatively modest price of $38 million each, may turn out to be a happy exception. 
 The Pentagon must make sure that the losing bidder, the Boeing Company, remains a viable producer of military aircraft. It must also hedge itscommitment to the new fighter, which will also be known as the F-35, by developing less vulnerable unpiloted drones to drop bombs on enemy positions. 
 The concept of a joint strike fighter, usable by the Air Force, Navy and Marines, allowing longer production lines and lower costs, dates back to the Clinton administration and has been supported by Pentagon officials from both parties. The final design incorporates much of the advanced stealth technology developed for the Air Force's F-22 fighter at less than half that program's cost of $83 million a plane. In addition to its multiple roles at home, the F-35 will also be used by Britain's navy and air force, and perhaps by other NATO countries as well. That expanded market will further economize on costs. 
Competition between Lockheed and Boeing helped hold down costs on the F-35. That can happen in the future only if Boeing survives as a military aircraft manufacturer. At least for the short term, that seems assured. Boeing is a big and diversified company, despite the current slump in its commercial airliner orders, and has plenty of other Pentagon business including substantial shares of the F-18 and F-22 fighter programs. 
Had Lockheed lost the F-35, it might have been forced out of the defense business. That would have been costly. Years of consolidation in the defense industry, encouraged by the Pentagon, have left only two major military aircraft makers, Lockheed and Boeing. Further shrinkage would end design and cost competition, which could bloat future defense budgets and damage military effectiveness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); AIRLINES (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EDITORIALS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; AIR FORCES; NAVIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEFENSE CONTRACTS 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (87%); BOEING CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) MARINE CORPS (US); LOCKHEED MARTIN; BOEING CO; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (87%); BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1068 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Indian Chief Miffs Canada, Not Sparing Indians 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Oct. 20 

 BODY:
One year into his term as Canada's paramount Indian chief, Matthew Coon Come is catching trouble everywhere.
 Fellow Indians are unnerved by his born-again Christianity. Separatists in his native Quebec Province have been stung by his demand for the right to secede from them if they persist in trying to leave Canada. This summer at a United Nations conference on racism and discrimination in South Africa, he outraged many Canadians as he denounced the country's human rights record for all the world to see. 
 "I was only quoting U.N. reports and Canadian Human Rights Commission reports," he said, sitting at his boardroom table in his conservative business suit, his feathered headdress hanging from a coat tree by his desk.
Mr. Coon Come, 45, a Cree Indian born as a dog sled bearing his mother raced to a tent on his father's trap line, was elected to a three-year term as leader of the Assembly of First Nations, Canada's indigenous parliament, by the chiefs of 633 Indian tribes, or "bands" as they are known here. The chiefs knew what they were getting. 
Since the age of 16, when he read in a newspaper about a threat to the region of his birth, he has been a tenacious agitator for Indian rights, leading a long and successful campaign to stop a $13 billion Quebec hydroelectric project that eventually acquired international dimensions. 
"I saw in a paper that reservoirs were going to be created in Quebec," he said. "One of those reservoirs was my community. I picked up that map and said, 'Our home is going to be under water.' When you have walked on the land, and you know what damage a beaver can do, you just magnify that and you realize the flooding that's going to take place." 
Because New York State was the intended buyer of the electricity, Mr. Coon Come asked Eskimo and Cree boat builders to make him a symbolic craft -- part kayak, part ode, a Cree canoe -- and he sailed it down the inland waterways to Albany. 
Earlier, while still a student, he had organized a demonstration in Ottawa against the project. His girlfriend and now his wife, Mary Ann Matoush, also an Indian, got clubbed to the ground by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. As he dragged her to safety, he recalls asking himself, "Where do we fit in this picture?"
That fitting in has never been easy, as even his name testifies. Coon means "snow" in his language, and Come was attached arbitrarily and inexplicably by a non-Indian census taker. 
A boy growing up with slingshots and a bow and arrow for toys, Mr. Coon Come was sent away to a boarding school at 6. Such schools have since been closed, after years in which they contributed to the loss of Indian culture, and the sexual abuse of children. 
He later graduated from Trent University in Ontario and had begun to study law at McGill in Montreal, when he was asked to go back to his James Bay Cree community as a deputy chief. Eventually, he became chief of that group and then of all the Cree, Canada's largest tribe.
Mr. Coon Come said that his priority as national chief of Canada's indigenous people was to get the government to honor 200 years of treaty commitments, giving Indians more land and autonomy. 
He opposes increased government oversight, now being discussed by political leaders, and would do away with the Department of Indian Affairs. He wants to work with the government as equals.
"The colonialistic attitude: we know what's best for you -- gone are those days that belong in the garbage can where slavery is," he said.
"I believe we can be participants in the economy, but we do need capital to put the infrastructure in place -- communications, connectivity, electricity, roads, marinas, airstrips, water and sewage lines," he said. 
Geographic isolation of Indian and Inuit, or Eskimo, people, most of whom now live all across the country's far north -- and call the rest of Canada "down south" -- has made economic development challenging. 
But that same isolation has allowed Canada's 660,000 Indians to keep languages and cultures intact better than Indians in the United States have done, Mr. Coon Come said. 
Indians also take better care of their environment, he said. Integrated into economic decision-making, they would insure not "sustainable development" on their lands, but "sustainable creation," he said. 
But he has also been quick to acknowledge the problems in Indian communities -- "bad apples" mismanaging government funds, suicide, diabetes, alcoholism and jails full of indigenous people. 
Not everyone in the communities he represents have been happy about it. 
"I made a reference to fetal alcohol syndrome," he said. "There are alarming statistics. My comment was that some people drink and smoke too much. I was attacked for that -- right across Canada. They called for my resignation."
"I didn't say you couldn't smoke or you couldn't drink," he said. "To me that's a choice. At the end of the day, it's a choice whether you take that drink or not. It's not the devil that makes you do it."
Such strong conviction stems in part from his beliefs as an evangelical Christian, a conversion that has led to problems both within the communities he represents as well as his own family, traditional practitioners of shamanism. "You have to understand, I was the only son," he said. "It wasn't easy."
His open profession of faith was an issue when he ran for national chief last year. "They said, 'You will have no respect for our traditions and culture and beliefs,' " he said. He told them he was a hunter whose spirit had never left the land and who respected all beliefs. The issue faded. 
Indeed, both Mr. Coon Come and his wife -- they have five children -- were both taught by their parents how to live in the wilderness. Until moving to Ottawa last year, they were comfortable in moosehide coats and snowshoes.
"I can take off these clothes you see now, and I'd be able to survive out on the land," he said. "My father taught me all the skills that I need."
The lessons go on. His father ventured down to Ottawa last week to see his son's new city home. Awake early, the father went for a walk on the golf course behind the house. When he returned, he wanted to know why his son was not out hunting. "He said, 'There are a lot of geese here,' " Mr. Coon Come said. " 'You could feed your family.' "
"My father is a hunter," Mr. Coon Come said. "Never went to school. Supported himself by living off the land. To him, if there's game out there, how come you're not out hunting?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Coon Come, Canada's paramount Indian chief, at the Parliament in Ottawa. He says his priority is to get the government to honor 200 years of treaty commitments, giving Indians more land and autonomy. (Robert J. Galbraith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RACE & RACISM (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); CENSUS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAKES (69%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (63%); BOAT BUILDING (61%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) INDIANS, AMERICAN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: COON COME, MATTHEW; CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1069 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Tumble, Spurred by Dive in Consumer Confidence

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks again fell sharply yesterday as stunned investors responded to a report that consumer confidence in October fell to its lowest level in seven years.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 147.52 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 9,121.98. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index dropped 32.11 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,667.41. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 18.51 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,059.79. 
 Investors continued to book profits made in the market's recent upswing. Stocks declined at the onset of trading yesterday, but quickened their descent after the consumer confidence numbers were released. The report showed a closely watched index of confidence plunged 11.5 points in October, far more than the 1.4-point slide Wall Street expected. 
The index measures the sentiment of consumers, who for a long time underpinned the deteriorating American economy. The survey, of 5,000 households in regions across the country, could be the first in a series of dismal economic reports coming this week.
"This is a very worrisome report, and what's worse is that by Friday morning it could be old news," said Oscar Gonzalez, an economist at John Hancock Financial Services. "If, as expected, the October employment report shows a sharp rise in unemployment and a sharp decline in job growth, it could be a crushing blow to confidence. Having a job is probably the single biggest factor in consumers having confidence."
Investor sentiment was also clouded by worries about the stability of Argentina's economy, new cases of anthrax, the American military airstrikes in Afghanistan and the possibility of additional terrorist attacks.
"Last week, there was a bit of ebullience building that we were maybe cruising to an easier-than-expected victory in Afghanistan, and that there had been no more terrorist attacks in the U.S. and this anthrax thing -- though a tragedy -- seemed to be fairly limited," said Steve Massocca, president and head of trading at Pacific Growth Equities. "It seemed like the economy was starting to perk up and things were starting to turn around.
"Then, I think it became clear that the victory wasn't going to be so easy in Afghanistan; economic indicators started to come out and they were pointing to further depreciation. All of that sort of weighed on the market."
On Monday, the stock market gave back a good part of its gains from recent rallies, with the major indexes falling 2.4 percent or more. 
Though yesterday's decline was broad, crossing into all sectors, technology issues led the way down. There was little news to cause a sell-off in the sector, but because technology stocks are normally volatile they often lead the market when big moves take place, analysts said.
Among technology issues, Internet stocks were particularly hard hit. Juniper Networks fell $1.01, to $22.99; CheckPoint Software lost 87 cents, to $28.67; Amazon dropped 63 cents, to $6.42, and CNet declined 37 cents, to $4.45.
TheStreet.com's Internet stock index dropped 6.37 points, or 4.19 percent, to 145.51.
For a second day, semiconductor stocks continued to be weak. Intel dropped 64 cents, to $23.54; Flextronics dropped 72 cents, to $18.19; Applied Materials slid $1.26, to $33.25; Xilinx lost $1.63, to $28.38; and Maxim Integrated Products fell $2.13, to $43.16. 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor stock index dropped 17.53 points, or 3.92 percent, to 429.68. --------------------

Treasury Prices Advance
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday after a report showed consumer confidence plunging on the threat of rising job losses and of more terrorist attacks.
"Everywhere people look, there's bad news: The economy is shrinking, the budget is deteriorating and there might be other terrorist attacks," said John Poole, who manages $10 billion at Mellon Private Asset Management in Boston. "In such an environment, they will stick with Treasuries."
The 10-year Treasury note rose 19/32, to a price of 104 22/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.41 percent from 4.48 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 28/32, to 102 19/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.20 percent from 5.26 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); TERRORISM (68%); ANTHRAX (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (67%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1070 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: City Is Still Standing, but the Tours Aren't Walking Much 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Big Onion Walking Tours has not had a school group show up for a previously scheduled tour of a part of New York. No Central Park? No Chinatown? Not even the multiethnic eating tour? No thanks, the groups have said; we're all afraid.
 But yesterday, Seth Kamil, Big Onion's founder, reported that finally, he found some takers with a little less fear: some cadets from West Point, who took a tour of the Lower East Side. 
 "The tragedy happened, but you have to go on, sir," said Janaia Nash, a 20-year-old sociology major from North Carolina. "Staying away is not going to make the situation go away, sir." 
It was a tour that Big Onion Walking Tours usually conducts dozens of times each fall, all over the city, for school groups from all over the country. But it was the first one that Big Onion had done since Sept. 11.
In the aftermath of the terrorist attack, the economic woes of New York businesses that feed, entertain, house and generally cater to visitors have been well documented. But the ripple effect has also spread to the tour guides who depend heavily on traffic from out-of-town schools.
In a normal autumn, Mr. Kamil's company usually organizes roughly 150 field trips for schools from all over the country. This fall, Mr. Kamil has two; yesterday's, and another on Nov. 13 for a Quaker school on Long Island.
Even school field trips scheduled for spring have been canceled, too. One school cited recent reports of anthrax in the city as the basis for canceling a trip to Central Park, he said.
"We've lost much of our business," Mr. Kamil said. "Part of the problem is the belief that the Lower East Side is downtown, so people are like, 'Oh my God, it's downtown, it's dangerous.' "
It does not matter where the schools are from, either. Joyce Gold, owner of Joyce Gold History Tours of New York, says that one company that organizes tours for more than a dozen schools from Florida each winter is poised to cancel. She has also had cancellations from two private schools, one in Manhattan, the other in Staten Island.
Yesterday morning, Mr. Kamil said he had received word that a group of perhaps 50 or 60 students from Forest Hills High School scheduled to tour Lower Manhattan on Election Day had canceled, too.
"They were concerned about trips outside of the borough of Queens," said Arlene Kahn, an administrator at La Guardia Community College who helps run a program at the school. "Their feeling was that they wanted to be cautious."
So it was with some relief on Mr. Kamil's part, and some pride on the part of the cadets, that there even was a field trip yesterday. Led by Bruce Keith, an associate professor of sociology, 9 male and 10 female students, mostly junior and senior sociology majors who are taking a class called Social Inequality, made the hour-plus bus ride from West Point to Lower Manhattan.
Not one cadet backed out at the last minute or had any worries about personal safety. If anything, the students said, they had an even stronger desire to visit the city and show that life could and should continue as planned.
"I refuse to live in fear," said Luke Haverstick, a strapping 21-year-old from Algona, Iowa.
The tour started, as usual, with a trip to the Tenement Museum on Orchard Street. Then, the tour veered in a generally southerly direction past what Mr. Kamil described as the new Chinatown, where recent immigrants from Fujian and other provinces live in cramped quarters. Next, the group went past the familiar places in historic Chinatown, like the Transfiguration School and Mott Street. Finally, the tour concluded with a stroll down Mulberry Street in Little Italy.
Mr. Kamil was, as usual, witty, informative and encyclopedic in evoking a historical portrait of a city so influenced by immigration and religion. He did not skirt the issue of Sept. 11, either, noting the anomalous quiet of the streets in tourist-dependent stretches of Chinatown and Little Italy.
The cadets did not disagree. But still, they said, they relished the chance to visit New York, even during a time of heightened security. After all, West Point has been under a tight seal, too.
"I'd be very upset if they canceled," said Sara Ewing, a 24-year-old senior from Vassar, Mich. "They don't let us out of school very often."

GRAPHIC: Photo: West Point cadets taking a tour of the Lower East Side yesterday led by Big Onion Walking Tours, which has seen its business drop off. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%) WALKING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1071 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Peres Says He May See Arafat, Drawing Criticism From Right 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said today that he would probably meet this week with Yasir Arafat, and that he had drafted a new peace plan for the Middle East.
 Mr. Peres said that the meeting with Mr. Arafat, the Palestinian leader, would not be substantive, and that he would present his plan to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon before making its details public. But both developments are likely to deepen the divide between left and right in Israel's coalition government. 
 During the present impasse between Israelis and Palestinians, a face-to-face encounter with Mr. Arafat would carry symbolic weight. It would be the highest-level contact in more than a month.
Mr. Peres said he was likely to see Mr. Arafat during a conference on Middle Eastern economies to be held on Friday and Saturday on the Spanish island of Majorca.
"We shall probably meet, but we are not going to negotiate," Mr. Peres said, "because I think that negotiations should be prepared very carefully, otherwise it will create a disappointment instead of a hope."
On television tonight, Mr. Peres said that he favored moving immediately to create a Palestinian state and that he had drafted a peace plan. Mr. Sharon has developed his own plan, Mr. Peres said, so he thought it was important for his Labor Party to present an alternative. He insisted that the unity government was "not speaking with two tongues."
The newspaper Maariv reported today that Mr. Peres's plan called for Israel to dismantle its settlements in the Gaza Strip and to permit the founding of a Palestinian state "for political and not military purposes."
Other Labor leaders have proposed "unilateral disengagement" by Israel from the West Bank and Gaza, leaving the areas to the supervision of an international coalition.
Right-wing cabinet members have repeatedly rejected any suggestion of a meeting with Mr. Arafat.
Advisers to Mr. Sharon seemed surprised by the news. Ranaan Gissin, a spokesman for Mr. Sharon, said any such decision must be coordinated between the offices of the foreign minister and the prime minister. 
Mr. Gissin said Mr. Sharon would consider permitting a meeting if it would help "in any way to bring about a cessation of hostilities." But, he added, "I think a photo opportunity, even Peres would not go for."
The exchange had a familiar ring. Through most of September, Mr. Peres and Mr. Arafat planned a meeting that was on and off like a strobe light. Dates were broken as Mr. Sharon insisted on an absolute cessation of violence beforehand.
Under American pressure, Mr. Sharon relented, and the two men met in the Gaza Strip on Sept. 26 to recommit their two sides to a declared cease-fire. Since then, violence has surged in Israel, the West Bank and Gaza.
After the killing on Oct. 17 of Tourism Minister Rehavam Zeevi, Mr. Sharon ordered Mr. Arafat to arrest and turn over those responsible or prepare to be treated as a sponsor of terrorism. Mr. Arafat refused to extradite any suspects, and the Israeli Army seized positions in seven cities in Palestinian-controlled areas of the West Bank. Israeli soldiers remain in four of those cities.
The possible meeting comes as some ministers within Mr. Sharon's government have been urging him to banish Mr. Arafat or to undermine his legitimacy as an international figure. Finance Minister Silvan Shalom told Israeli television today that a meeting would signal to world leaders that it was proper to sit down with Mr. Arafat.
"This man generates more terror attacks than the Hamas and Islamic Jihad," Mr. Shalom said. "There is no room for this meeting, nothing will come out of it and, frankly, I do not understand the crazy chase after him every single time. It only hurts us eventually."
Israeli leaders are most concerned about the possibility of a meeting between President Bush and Mr. Arafat. Other leaders have shown little reluctance to sit down with the Palestinian leader. Today he met separately in Rome with Pope John Paul II and the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi.
Relations between the United States and Israel have been strained by the Israeli incursions. Today the State Department criticized Israel for the demolition in East Jerusalem of four Palestinian houses. The State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, called the demolitions "highly provocative."
Israeli officials said the owners lacked permits. Palestinians have long accused the Israelis of denying them such permits to push them out of East Jerusalem, which they envision as the capital of their state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (70%) PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (93%) BENNET, JAMES; PERES, SHIMON (MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) ISRAEL; JERUSALEM

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1072 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Few Businesses Seek Disaster Aid; Fewer Are Approved 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
More than half of the small businesses in New York City that have applied for federal disaster loans since the World Trade Center attack have had their applications rejected, resulting in one of the lowest loan-approval rates in recent years among communities that have had to grapple with large-scale disasters.
 At the same time, despite a widespread downturn among small businesses below 14th Street and elsewhere, relatively few business owners have applied for disaster relief, with some of them expressing doubt about the economic climate. 
 As a result, the United States Small Business Administration is all but begging for applicants. While those businesses that are applying are getting their answers in a few days, compared to the normal three-week process, some downtown business owners say their experiences have left them confused and dejected about their prospects. 
Only seven weeks after the disaster, it is too early to say whether the approval rate will continue at its current low level or, as Small Business Administration officials predict, the rate will rise as generally healthier businesses are drawn to apply for help. But in either case, an ominous picture emerges of the state of small business in the city: a major downturn, plus the disaster at the trade center, affecting the a large number businesses and employers at what is, for many, their most important season of the year.
"There is a large number of businesses out there with major decisions to make," said William Leggiero, the S.B.A's director of operations for the region that stretches from Maine through Virginia. "Many of them are deciding whether to relocate or to where. These are difficult decisions, not like we see with most physical disasters, where businesses know they are going back into business and are going to stay right where they are."
Business owners give varied reasons for being wary of applying for the disaster loans, not the least of which are their own serious doubts about business prospects in the immediate neighborhood of the destroyed trade center. In addition, they say, applications require extensive documentation, and many businesses are waiting to see what costs will be covered by their own insurance before taking on extra debt.
Through yesterday, the Small Business Administration had approved 844 applications totaling $80 million in disaster assistance to businesses or homeowners in New York City, Mr. Leggiero said. 
But the agency had rejected 976 applications, for an approval rate of 46 percent. More than 500 additional applications were completed but withdrawn, in many cases after the applicants were advised that they did not meet some of the basic requirements for approval. Roughly 1,500 applications were still being processed.
S.B.A. officials said that nationwide approval rates run at about 50 percent. But following several large disasters over the last decade, approval rates were significantly higher. In 1992, in the aftermath of Hurricane Andrew, 60 percent of Florida's disaster loan applications were approved, as were 56 percent of the applications that followed the Northridge earthquake near Los Angeles in 1994.
The trade center attack differs from recent hurricanes and floods, which have affected more homeowners than business owners. Homeowners and renters, who can also apply for S.B.A. loans to repair property damage, sometimes account for four out of every five loan requests. 
But in downtown Manhattan, homeowners account for only about 10 percent of the loans approved so far in New York City.
In addition, the businesses that do apply quickly are often those that are in the most dire straits, and therefore might not be the most creditworthy applicants.
Because the application period extends through June, S.B.A. officials said they expected that the approval rate would rise as more business owners who are surviving but still feeling pinched seek assistance.
Some small business owners say they feel they were unfairly denied assistance. Nancy Chambers, the owner of Urban Bird, a parrot breeding and sales business on Greenwich Avenue in Greenwich Village, said that her loan application was denied because of a dispute with state tax authorities over how long she had been in business.
"Like a lot of small-business people, I don't have sterling credit," Ms. Chambers said. "But I had to keep the store open, the birds alive and my life going." After her federal application was denied, she found help from Accion New York, a microlending organization that arranged a $15,000 loan.
Those who make it through the S.B.A.'s application process do so quickly. Darryl McCray, the owner of House of Nubian, a specialty store on 8th Street in Greenwich Village, saw his daily business fall off by 90 percent, from $4,000 a day before Sept. 11 to about $400 a day currently. He received approval for a $100,000 loan in less than 24 hours.
For those uncertain about applying for a loan, a few options are available. Tom Kollar, the co-owner of Tortola Hair Salon on Franklin Street in TriBeCa, said that instead of immediately turning to the S.B.A., he and his partner were able to secure a $1,000 grant from the Manhattan borough president's office -- a more desirable option to help pay for cleanup costs.
"We needed a little bit of money to help us get through the losses that we are having each week," Mr. Kollar said. "We had to pay rent for this month and make our payroll, and so the grant was a very quick help in comparison to the other options." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); HURRICANES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISASTERS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (91%) SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA) 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1073 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
Linking Poor Performance To Working After School

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AMERICAN student proficiency seems to decline sharply in adolescence. On international tests, pupils here perform relatively well in elementary school, but then fall behind in middle school and even more starkly in high school.
 This trend has spurred many education reform proposals, but the biggest difference between teenagers here and elsewhere may have less to do with instruction than with employment after school. 
 The Third International Mathematics and Science Survey, where low exam scores of American students stir such great concern, found that 55 percent of American 12th graders work three hours or more on a normal school day. The proportion for other nations is 18 percent, on average. To improve achievement, we have either got to cut back on after-school employment or transform adolescent jobs so they contribute more to learning. 
The negative effects of employment -- lower grades, school absenteeism, drug and alcohol use, less challenging course loads -- seem to occur mostly when students work more than about 15 hours a week. Some evidence suggests that working less than that may actually improve learning. One study found that when students work after school to earn money for college, not for CD's or high tops, achievement improves. Another found that employed teenagers steal time from watching television, not homework. If so, some jobs could be helpful.
Certainly, many Americans believe that teenage work teaches responsibility, punctuality, independence and self-confidence. Prof. Stephen Heyneman of Vanderbilt University, a former World Bank education analyst, says student jobs may explain why, despite lower academic scores, Americans are so productive. Dr. Heyneman says that teenage experience in applying for positions and cooperating with co-workers and supervisors may pay off later in an ability to adapt more easily than workers in other nations to new jobs and changes in work requirements.
But even if it is harmful, the employment of youths is now so crucial to the economy that curbing it is nearly impossible. Most teenagers earn money not to supplement family income or save for college, but for entertainment and clothing, comprising a $150 billion market.
The retail and fast-food sectors depend on young low-wage workers. Efforts in Congress and state legislatures to restrict student work hours meet fierce resistance from industry lobbyists who proclaim the character-building virtues of after-school jobs. Other industrialized nations have relatively higher service industry salaries to attract adult employees, so students are less needed.
If teenage work is an untouchable feature of American life, perhaps schools can enhance its virtues and reduce the harm. This is the idea behind the best school-to-work programs. Hours of work are limited, and teachers meet with work supervisors to coordinate job-based learning with academic studies.
Career-theme high schools in New York City and elsewhere try this with unpaid internships. But Philadelphia has 1,500 high school students spending up to two days a week in paid placements at hospitals, technology companies and other firms where work is more challenging than ringing a cash register. Teachers visit these workplaces in the summer, learning to incorporate practical applications into regular lessons. Students are graded for the work based on joint evaluations by a job supervisor and teacher.
Yet most students should not miss a day or two of classes each week. So the Philadelphia district is now asking employers to create after-school placements as well. Rochester, along with other districts, has such a program; students must enroll in college preparatory courses to be eligible.
Nationwide, only 13 percent of all 12th graders work in paid jobs obtained through school-business partnerships. And even these placements may not require coordination of curriculum and student evaluation by work supervisors and teachers together. 
In 1994, Congress provided subsidies for such programs, but they came under fierce attack by conservatives like Phyllis Schlafly who asserted that the plan was a scheme to track students into dead-end employment, that it let "central planners" decide what jobs students should aim for and that it was wrongly designed to get girls to shun traditionally female occupations.
Last month the federal school-to-work office was closed, so schools now must develop such programs on their own. They should do so, along with the business leaders who have been fierce critics of graduate skills but whose teenage hiring practices contribute to poor achievement.
If we cannot stop students from working, we can certainly improve the kind of work they do. This could turn the excessive hours worked by American students from a national handicap to a strength.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (61%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); FAST FOOD (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1074 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Peres May Meet Arafat, But Not to Negotiate
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel, left, said he would probably meet -- but not negotiate with -- the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, at an economic conference on Majorca this week. Mr. Peres also said he had drafted a new peace plan, one that called for a Palestinian state, but would not make its details public until Prime Minister Ariel Sharon had reviewed it. A10

Milosevic Calls Trial a 'Farce'
Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav president facing an array of charges, including genocide, at the international tribunal at The Hague, told the judges he would fight until the tribunal was overthrown, and he called the trial a farce. The court said his trial could begin in February. A6

Polish Police Cleared in '81 Case
Twenty-two former officers were acquitted of killing nine miners in December 1981, three days after a coup toppled the Polish government and Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski and other military leaders moved to crush the Solidarity trade union. Officials and policemen from General Jaruzelski on down have been put on trial in connection with some 150 deaths, but none have been convicted. A11

Refugees Snarl Chunnel Traffic
Dozens of asylum seekers broke into a freight yard near Calais, France, and tried to hide on trains bound for Britain, forcing the Channel Tunnel to be closed to freight for 11 hours. The authorities arrested about 150 migrants, mostly Afghans, Iranians or Iraqi and Turkish Kurds from a Red Cross refugee camp nearby. A6

Suicide Attack in Sri Lanka
Tamil separatists staged a suicide attack when they rammed a boat loaded with explosives into a tanker carrying more than 650 tons of oil off Sri Lanka's northern coast, setting the vessel ablaze, officials said. Five boats took part in the attack, which left three watchmen missing off the coast of Point Pedro, officials said. A8

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A12-13

Bush Aides Say Congress Must Act Now on Economy
President Bush's top economic policy advisers warned in an interview that failure by Congress to pass an economic recovery package would endanger prospects for a rebound next year. Still, they expressed optimism about reaching a deal based on the administration's proposal for a new round of tax cuts. A12

'Virtual' Pornography Case
The Supreme Court heard the government's defense of a law that treats computer-generated pornographic images of children or pornographic productions using young-looking performers who are really adults as if they were the real thing. A13

New Charges From '69 Riot
Two black men in York, Pa., were charged in the death of a white police officer during the 10 days of rioting there in 1969, an episode that just five months ago also produced murder charges against the current mayor, Charlie Robertson, who is white and was a police officer at the time. A12

Direct Mail Seeks Safeguards
Industry officials said direct-mail marketers, gearing up for their busiest time of year, were taking extra precautions to try to ease the concerns of consumers worried about bioterror attacks using the mail. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Medical Marijuana Crackdown
The Justice Department, armed with a favorable Supreme Court ruling, is cracking down on the distribution of marijuana for medical purposes. A12

NEW YORK/REGION D1-8

Mayoral Hopefuls Differ No Matter the Language
Michael R. Bloomberg and Mark Green met in the first of two debates, offering contrasting views on rebuilding New York, improving education and what the city needed in its next mayor. The appearance was sponsored by Spanish-language radio and television stations, and the questions and answers were passed through translators. D1

Mr. Green, the Democratic candidate, warned in an interview that the city's expected $5 billion or so deficit next year would be its greatest fiscal crisis since it nearly went bankrupt in the 1970's. He asserted that he had "the experience in government to make hard choices, tell the public hard truths and take the heat." D1

School Reels From 4 Deaths
Classmates mourned four students at Herricks High School in New Hyde Park, N.Y., who were killed in a high-speed car crash on Monday. D1

ARTS E1-10

EDUCATION D9

Rebuke to Scarsdale
The New York State education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, ordered school officials in Scarsdale to punish students if they boycotted English, math and other state tests next spring, as most did last spring with some parental encouragement. D2

OBITUARIES C19

SPORTS S1-9

Yankees Win at Home
The Yanks beat Arizona, 2-1, in Game 3 of the World Series, and now trail the Diamondbacks by one game. S1

Knicks Spoil Jordan's Return
The Knicks beat the Washington Wizards, 93-91, in Michael Jordan's first game back from retirement. S1

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Ford Sees Rough Times Ahead
Ford's new chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., 44, said the effects of the Sept. 11 terror attacks had worsened an already bleak outlook for the auto industry and had accelerated the need for change at the top. C1

Mr. Ford named Carl E. Reichardt, 70, the retired chief executive of Wells Fargo, as vice chairman, with sweeping responsibilities over financial, leasing, credit and rental car operations. Nick Scheele, 57, will be chief operating officer and president of the Ford Automotive Group, the key executive on the vehicle side. C9

U.S. Chastises Japan on Trade
Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick criticized Japan's pursuit of "narrow-minded interests" as officials sought to finalize the agenda for a World Trade Organization meeting next week in Qatar. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-10

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Life in a time of terror; smart shopping by the Pentagon; the urgency of cheaper drugs; All Hallow's Eve, 2001.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives D2
Weather S9

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COUPS (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); MURDER (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ACQUITTAL (75%); GENOCIDE (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); RIOTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); ARRESTS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); MARINE TANKERS (68%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (66%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (64%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (60%); MAYORS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (52%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); APPEALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YORK, PA, USA (50%) BALEARIC ISLANDS, SPAIN (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SPAIN (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAQ (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1075 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Just how safe is that catalog in your mailbox? The direct mail industry is working on assurances.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS the crucial holiday shopping season approaches, executives of companies that sell billions of dollars of merchandise a year through direct mail and catalogs are disclosing myriad steps being taken to increase security and safety for customers made anxious by anthrax.
 The disclosures, made yesterday at a news conference at the 84th annual conference of the Direct Marketing Association in Chicago, underscored the new marketing climate, in which unwanted mail can be not just annoying but also hazardous. Yet the industry, which is responsible for annual sales of goods and services estimated at $528 billion last year and $580 billion in 2001, is sending mixed signals about the dangers. 
 Though the executives agreed they had seen no indications of sales slowdowns related to consumer reluctance to open or use mail, their remarks clearly indicated concern about the potential effects of the anthrax scares on the operations of the Postal Service, upon which they remain largely dependent, as well as on consumer confidence -- particularly as recent cases involved for the first time people who do not work for the government, the news media or the post office. 
"We need a viable Postal Service and postal system," said Michael P. Sherman, president at the Fingerhut Companies in Minnetonka, Minn., a division of Federated Department Stores that he described as the largest catalog customer of the Postal Service and the ninth-largest customer over all.
"We're not going to let the threat of terrorism undermine the post office," said Mr. Sherman, who is the new chairman of the association. "There's going to be a Christmas this year."
At the same time, the association announced no new industrywide measures being taken to allay consumer concerns and repeatedly played down the possibility that those worries could spread to the point of doing considerable damage to holiday sales.
The problems have been centered on "a handful of handwritten letters in the mail," said H. Robert Wientzen, president and chief executive at the association, as he sought to minimize the scope of the anthrax incidents, which have killed three people.
"So far, no commercial mail has been involved," he added.
At one point, Mr. Wientzen, who is based in New York, said, "We have to keep this in perspective." He noted, for example, that driving has not been curbed even though traffic deaths continue to be recorded on the nation's highways.
Of course, many people are aware, at least occasionally, that highway driving might result in hospitalization or even death, a thought that until recently probably did not cross the minds of most Americans as they opened junk mail.
There are even "some fairly positive things on the horizon," Mr. Wientzen said, at least from the perspective of his membership, in that as consumers travel less they are "tending to spend more time at home," a situation that can historically cause "catalog sales to be fairly robust."
Apparently not completely willing to rely on historic trends to bolster sales, particularly at a time of year when a decline in demand can doom an entire year's results, the executives at the news conference described numerous moves they are making or plan to make to tamp down consumer fears.
For instance, George D. Ittner, president and chief executive at the Newport News division of Spiegel Inc. in Downers Grove, Ill., which sells women's apparel and home furnishings through catalogs, said his company was making its name and logo "more prominent on catalogs, packages" and more closely monitoring how its catalogs are printed, from the "rotogravure plant to the binding line."
Jeff Jones, chief operating officer at Lands' End in Dodgeville, Wis., which mails about 300 million catalogs a year to 11 million households and 200,000 companies, outlined steps including a decision to "enhance our security greatly" both internally and externally.
Mr. Jones said, for example, that Lands' End had "moved incoming mail to a separate facility down the road from Dodgeville."
"Whatever it takes," he pledged, the company will do.
Other changes, the executives said, include sending customers e-mail messages telling them to expect the arrival of new catalogs; adding identification like company logos, telephone numbers and Web site addresses to packages that may be sent as gifts and are therefore not expected by the recipients; posting reproductions of covers of coming catalogs on company Web sites, which concerned consumers may examine; posting the entire contents of catalogs on Web sites for those consumers who are refusing to open unsolicited mail; and paying additional attention to temporary and casual employees working at the companies during the holiday season.
Mr. Wientzen expressed his concern several times that the added costs of security being incurred by the Postal Service, along with the potential loss of revenue from lower mail volumes, would "provide an additional financial burden" that must be addressed by Congress, which "will have to enact legislation very quickly."
Even before the anthrax attacks, Postal Service mail volume had declined 6.6 percent from Sept. 8 to Oct. 5, compared with the period a year earlier. The Postal Service suspended its television and print advertising last week because of what a statement described as "current events"; only last month, Leo Burnett USA in Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Bcom3 Group, introduced a campaign carrying the theme "The U.S. Postal Service is everywhere so you can be anywhere."
If mail volume continues to decline at current rates, Mr. Wientzen said, the Postal Service could lose $3.5 billion in annual revenue.
The Postal Service "operates under rules from 1970," Mr. Wientzen said, referring to its transformation from a Cabinet department to an autonomous business operation that is not supposed to be subsidized by Congress. And, he said, it "did not anticipate faxes, e-mail and the Internet," which have all siphoned revenue from the mail system.
"It sure as hell did not anticipate anthrax," he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (92%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (92%); ANTHRAX (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ANTHRAX; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING; CATALOGS 

COMPANY: BLUESTEM BRANDS INC (68%); MACY'S INC (58%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (57%) POSTAL SERVICE 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (68%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (68%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (68%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1076 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Ford Family Takes the Helm; 
Effort to Overcome Rift At Troubled Company

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The Fords, one of the most prominent and enduring families in American business, reasserted control today of the Ford Motor Company for the first time in more than two decades. 
 But William Clay Ford Jr. -- the family member who took over as the company's sole chief executive, ending an awkward power sharing arrangement with the ousted Jacques A. Nasser -- assumes leadership of a company mired in deep trouble. 
 Mr. Ford said yesterday that the events of Sept. 11 had worsened an already bleak outlook for the auto industry and accelerated the need for change at the top of Ford, which has been struggling to devise a turnaround plan. 
"This isn't a time for grand visions and for a lot of barnstorming tours of the world talking about how we're going to revolutionize the world," he said at Ford's headquarters here. "What we need to do now is fix our core business, put a plan together that is credible and, underlying all of that, fix the quality and introduce cars that are exciting."
Mr. Ford, 44, has a lot going for him. He is regarded as affable and open -- qualities rarely associated with Mr. Nasser, who resigned after meeting with Mr. Ford on Monday afternoon. He has a winning sense of humor, too. As hundreds of workers cheered him today, Mr. Ford began a speech by cracking, "You'd think the Detroit Lions had won a game or something" -- a reference to the family's football team, the only squad without a victory in the National Football League.
He has friends in odd places for an auto executive. A Sierra Club official today called Mr. Ford -- who has pledged the company to improve the fuel economy of its sport utility vehicles by 25 percent, prompting General Motors and Chrysler to make similar commitments -- "an enlightened executive."
And he has the solid support of his family, which holds only 6 percent of Ford's stock and just 3 of 14 seats on the board but has voting rights that give it effective control of the company. Family members, who regularly meet three times a year, gathered for a particularly gloomy discussion of the company's prospects three weeks ago. The company had just cut its dividend, at great cost to the Fords, and the yearlong tug-of-war for power between Mr. Ford and Mr. Nasser was on everyone's mind, Mr. Ford said in an interview. 
"We talked about all of the issues facing the company," he said. "They wanted my input into how I saw things. It was probably clear then that if things didn't get better, this was going to happen." 
What is less clear is if Mr. Ford has the skills to succeed as a chief executive at an increasingly difficult time. Ford is locked in a price war with G.M. and Chrysler and is losing market share. Its two consecutive quarterly losses are the first such six-month period in a decade. Its relationships with dealers, suppliers and employees are frayed. Its credit rating has been lowered, its cash reserves are dwindling and the industry expects overall sales to fall sharply in 2002. It stock closed yesterday at $16.05, down 16 cents. 
Today, Mr. Ford -- who first came to work at Ford when he was 22 years old -- said he would surround himself with seasoned executives and make it his business to smooth ruffled feathers. Among other squabbles, he said he would consider ending the company's bitter feud with Bridgestone, the tire manufacturer whose American Firestone unit was founded by his maternal great-grandfather.
Wall Street analysts said today that Mr. Ford was unproved, but generally agreed that having a Ford at the company's helm would improve morale.
More important, they said, was that Mr. Ford has chosen credible top executives to serve under him. Nicholas V. Scheele, brought back from Ford of Europe this summer to run the company's automotive operations in North America, was named president and chief operating officer. Carl E. Reichardt, a longtime board member, was named vice chairman. Mr. Reichardt, who served for more than a decade as the chief executive of Wells Fargo & Company, will oversee Ford's financial operations at a time when they are struggling. 
"I'm not dictatorial at all," Mr. Ford said. "I look to Nick and Carl both as sort of an easygoing partnership where we just sit around and figure things out."
Mr. Ford never was able to achieve that kind of partnership with Mr. Nasser. They vowed to work as a team in 1999, when Mr. Ford was named nonexecutive chairman and Mr. Nasser was named chief executive. But Mr. Ford complained increasingly that he was outside the flow of important information, and he was clearly uncomfortable with Mr. Nasser's more autocratic management style. 
As the company's financial problems mounted -- along with the cost in dollars and reputation from the deaths and injuries in Ford Explorers equipped with Firestone tires -- the two men renegotiated their relationship. In July, Mr. Ford created an office of chairman and chief executive in a move to share power, and there was speculation that Mr. Nasser's days were numbered. 
Mr. Nasser's demise is the latest in a long history of Ford family dust-ups with management. The original Henry Ford, the company's brilliant but spiteful founder, clashed frequently with his managers, though perhaps none so bitterly as his own son, Edsel B. Ford, who served for years as the company's president but died before, and never escaped the shadow of, his father.
Edsel's son, Henry Ford II, became the second Ford to dominate the company, presiding over it for three decades. He was known for his refusal to delegate much authority and for shuffling top executives. When he brought a top G.M. executive, Semon Knudsen, to the company as president in 1968, Mr. Knudsen lasted 19 months. When he fired another president, Lee A. Iacocca, Mr. Ford said simply: "Well, sometimes you just don't like somebody."
The new chief executive, who prefers to be called Bill, came to the company in 1979, at 22, the same year that his, uncle Henry Ford II, stepped down, and now becomes the third Ford to preside over the company that bears his name. He is considered the only family member of his generation to possess the qualifications of a top executive. He has worked in manufacturing, sales, product development and finance. He left in 1983 to study finance at M.I.T., and has run the company's finance committee for five years. 
But Mr. Ford has not been a chief executive, and in an interview today said he had mixed feelings about running the company.
"I came close to leaving several times, as I got frustrated with the company and the pace of change and some of the positions we'd taken," he said. "In the end, I really love this company, and it's my children's future and my grandchildren's future. So here I am."
Most analysts said it was time that the company moved past Mr. Nasser's stormy tenure and faced up to the problems at hand. 
"Whether rightly or wrongly, Jacques Nasser had become a lighting rod for many of Ford's problems, and moving past his tenure will help this new team attack the new problems," said Jim Benson, an auto analyst and fund manager for the Oakmark Funds, which invest in Ford.
Stephen J. Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said, "I think Nasser wanted to do too much too quickly, and the organization wasn't ready too accept it."
He added that Ford's organization -- Mr. Nasser never named a chief operating officer -- itself was not up to the task. "The job is bigger than one person," Mr. Girsky said. He noted that the structure Ford announced today was similar to that recently put in place at G.M.
Until now, arguably, Mr. Ford's biggest impact on the car business has been a push for the industry to accept responsibility for its impact on the environment.
"He recognizes that we have to solve the problem of global warming," said Daniel Becker, director of global warming issues for the Sierra Club, who praised Mr. Ford's elevation to chief executive.
"People always like to put you down as something, either a numbers guy, a car guy or a tree hugger," Mr. Ford said yesterday. 
"If you look at where society is going, those distinctions are becoming blurred between being a businessman, an environmentalist and an industrialist," he added.
He said his primary focus as chief executive would be turning the company around and using his name to create opportunities, rather than bearing it as a burden.
"For years, probably all the way back to Henry Ford the first, there has always been kind of a cult of personality that has swirled around the Ford Motor Company," he said. "This company is bigger than any individual, and it has proven that time and time again. We're a strong family with a strong ethic and a strong culture. It transcends any individual, including me."
Still, some things are personal. Mr. Ford said it might be time to end hostilities with Firestone. Ford Motor and Bridgestone/Firestone have feuded bitterly over responsibility for hundreds of deaths in Explorers equipped with Firestone tires. The fight has pitted the companies against each other in Congressional hearings and courtrooms, has led Ford to spend $3 billion replacing Firestone tires and resulted, earlier this year, in the severing of a business relationship that last nearly a century.
"My mother is a Firestone," Mr. Ford said, adding that when the controversy over the tires first became public in August 2000, he was scheduled to be the keynote speaker at a Firestone family reunion. 
"I called my mother up and said, 'Mom, I can't go.' " he said "And she said, 'Do you think I shouldn't go?,' And I said 'No, no, you should go. People aren't going to expect you to know about Explorer details.' So she went, and my wife and children went." 
Mr. Ford said that Mr. Nasser's handling of the Firestone dispute did not play a role in his departure. But he indicated he might take a different approach.
"We're caught up in so many legal issues and everything else that I don't know where we go from here," he said. "But I would like to have a constructive relationship with Firestone, with Bridgestone, the parent company. Whether that's possible, I'd certainly be open to it.
"In the broader sense, leaving Firestone aside, we need to reach out to all of our constituents -- suppliers, dealers, government and obviously the biggest of all, our employees, and really start to rebuild relationships that may have been frayed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Clay Ford Jr., center, at a news conference in Dearborn, Mich., yesterday. With him were Nicholas V. Scheele, left, Ford's new president and chief operating officer, and Carl Reichardt, who became vice chairman. Below right, Mr. Ford and Jacques A. Nasser, the ousted chief executive, during happier times last year. (Above, Bloomberg News; below right, Reuters); Edsel B. Ford drove the 15 millionth Model T in 1927, with Henry Ford. The man in the rear was unidentified. (Wieck)(pg. C1); Jacques A. Nasser testified before a House committee in June on Ford's recall of Firestone tires used on its Explorer sport utility vehicles. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C9) Chart: "Their Name Is on the Cars"Unlike most public companies, Ford is still under the effective control of a single extended family. William Clay Ford, Josephine F. Ford and Lynn Ford Alandt hold the greatest stakes in the company. Three weeks ago, the family agreed that William Clay Ford Jr. should replace Jacques A. Nasser as chief executive. Yesterday, the board made the change official. HENRY FORD1863-1947Founder. President from 1906-19 and 1943-45. EDSEL B. FORD1893-1943President from 1919-43. HENRY FORD II1917-87President from 1945-60. Chairman of the board from1960-80. BENSON FORD1919-78Chairman of the dealer policy board from 1956-78. WILLIAM CLAY FORD1925-Vice-chairman, 1980-89. Chairman of the finance committee, 1987-95. Board member. Married to Martha Firestone. WILLIAM CLAY FORD JR.1957-Chairman, 1999-2001. Named chief executive yesterday. EDSEL B. FORD II 1948-President of Ford Motor Credit Company, 1991-98. Vice president, 1993-98.Board member. (Sources: Ford Motor Company; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "Nasser's Rocky Road at Ford"Jacques A. Nasser was forced out of the Ford Motor Company on Monday. Here is a timeline of Ford's daily closing stock price and significant events since he became chief executive on Jan. 1, 1999. JAN. 28, 1999Ford announces that it is buying the passenger car operations of Volvo for $6 billion to $7 billion. APRIL 14, 2000Ford announces that it will make a special dividend payment to shareholders of $10 billion. JULY 13, 2000Ford says it will take a $3.3 billion charge for costs associated with spinning off its Visteon parts company. AUG.9, 2000Bridgestone/Firestone announces a recall of 6.5 million tires that were mostly sold with Ford Explorers. AUG. 29, 2000A California judge rules that Ford knowingly installed defective ignition mechanisms in nearly two million vehicles produced from 1983 to 1995. SEPT. 6, 2000Nasser testifies at Congressional hearings on cause of fatal accidents linked to Bridgestone/Firestone tires and Ford Explorers. DEC. 19, 2000A Bridgestone/Firestone report blames tire failures on a design flaw and also criticizes the lower tire inflation rates and higher vehicle load limits recommended by Ford on its Explorers. MARCH 31, 2001Ford nearly overtakes G.M. as world's largest automaker. MAY 21, 2001Bridgestone/Firestone ends its 95-year-old relationship with Ford. The next day, Ford recalls remaining 13 million Wilderness AT tires sold with its vehicles at a cost of $3 billion. JULY 27, 2001Ford announces the creation of an office of the chairman and chief executive,giving William Clay Ford Jr. more involvement in day-to-day operations. AUG. 17, 2001Ford announces that it is eliminating 5,000 jobs in North America and plans to reduce production by the fall. OCT. 25, 2001Ford settles lawsuits in five states involving flawed ignition systems in its vehicles by agreeing to pay for the cost of replacing them. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets stock price )(pg. C9) Chart: "All in the Family"Descendants of Henry Ford own a special class of Ford Motor shares that gives them effective control of the company. The stake entitles them to 40 percent of the voting rights in the company. DISTRIBUTION OF CLASS B SHARES AS OF MARCH 15, 2001William Clay Ford: 21.27%Other Ford family members: 34.31%Josephine F. Ford: 20.29%Lynn F. Alandt: 11.78%Edsel B. Ford II: 7.70%William Clay Ford Jr.: 4.65% (Source: 2001 Ford proxy)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FAMILY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); DIVIDENDS (61%) AUTOMOBILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (54%) FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: NASSER, JACQUES; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR; FORD, HENRY (1863-1947); HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1077 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Strategy and Diplomacy

MILITARY ADVISERS -- A small group of American soldiers has been working closely with rebel forces in northern Afghanistan. A1

ECHOES OF VIETNAM -- The word quagmire has again begun to haunt conversations among government officials and students of foreign policy as complications become apparent in Afghanistan. B1

HOLDING THE COALITION -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld plans to leave this week on a mission to ensure support from Russia and the nations surrounding Afghanistan. B1

THE UZBEKISTAN ALLIANCE -- Tommy R. Franks, the American general in charge of the military campaign, met with the president of Uzbekistan to cement the countries' expanding relationship. B3

CONCERN OVER CASUALTIES -- Upset by civilian deaths, the head of the United Nations refugee agency called for the United States and Britain to show restraint in bombing. B3

ASSASSINATION CONSPIRACY -- An Egyptian man in London was charged with conspiracy in the assassination of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the Afghan rebel leader. B3

CHANGING GENERALS -- Lt. Gen. Charles F. Wald, the commander of the air war over Afghanistan, will leave to take a high-ranking position in the Pentagon. B3

Anthrax Investigation

A CHANGING INQUIRY -- Just a few days ago, it seemed possible that the spate of anthrax infections could be largely traced to a single, potent letter that traveled from New Jersey to Washington. Now that seems increasingly unlikely. A1

TRACKING A LETTER -- The envelope that created a cluster of inhalation anthrax cases in Washington. B9

NEW DISCOVERIES -- Anthrax traces were found in two more Washington post offices. B9

New Anthrax in New York

HOSPITAL WORKERS TREATED -- Officials ordered antibiotic treatment for all New York hospital employees and perhaps thousands of patients and visitors as investigators searched for the source of inhaled anthrax that left a 61-year-old medical worker critically ill. A1

THE VICTIM -- The Bronx neighbors of the hospital employee fighting for her life against inhalation anthrax talk about her kindness and her flight from Vietnam in 1977. A1

HUNTING FOR THE SOURCE -- Officials desperately try to trace the steps of the ill woman to find out how, and where, she encountered anthrax spores. B4

SHUT DOWN -- Staff members and patients of the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital arrived to find closed doors and health workers doling out doses of antibiotics. It was the first time an entire hospital was closed by the threat of anthrax contamination. B4

Tracking the Outbreaks

IN NEW YORK -- The latest anthrax diagnosis in New York is the city's seventh such case since a tainted letter was opened in the NBC news offices this month. B6

NEW JERSEY EXPOSURES -- A cluster of anthrax cases in New Jersey seemed to prove officials wrong after they went to pains to assure the public that merely handling tainted mail could not make anyone ill. B6

THE CAPITAL'S CASES -- In Washington, the Brentwood mail complex has been a common factor in the confirmed anthrax cases. B7

FLORIDA INVESTIGATION -- It has been a month since an editor at a tabloid was killed by inhalation anthrax, but officials still do not know specifically how spores got into his office. B7

Treatment and Safety

TESTING COMES SECOND -- Officials are treating first and waiting for test results later because of the delay before a blood test can confirm exposure to anthrax. B8

LEARNING TO CURE -- With every anthrax case, doctors are finding new ways to give the lie to a previous assumption that inhalation anthrax was inevitably fatal. B9

CLEANING THE MAIL -- The first batch of mail from Washington arrived in Lima, Ohio, for electron-beam sterilization. B10

THE DRUG INDUSTRY -- Drug companies are asking for government contracts to research drugs to protect against bioterrorism. The request is creating an uneasy debate over how close the industry should get to the government. B10

Security Concerns

TERRORISM WARNING -- The government said its latest warning of possible terrorist attacks stemmed from credible intelligence sources, including an electronic interception of a coded message from an associate of Osama bin Laden. A1

LIFE DURING WARTIME -- Many Americans say that despite some worry about terrorism and the war in Afghanistan, they are going on with their everyday lives. B1

NOT QUITE CAREFREE -- While the president attended the World Series, the vice president was being kept in a secure location. It continued a mixed message of urging the public to carry on with normal life, but warily. A1

SECURING THE SERIES -- Secret Service agents swept the stands, snipers were stationed on rooftops and even hot dog vendors were screened at Yankee Stadium. B5

VACCINE SUPPLY -- The administration said it wanted access to a stock of anthrax vaccine large enough to protect almost a million people. B10

GUARDING RESOURCES -- States in the Northeast deployed more National Guard troops at transportation centers, water supplies and nuclear power plants after federal warnings of possible terrorist attacks. B11

AIR SECURITY -- The government temporarily banned private airplanes from flying within 11 1/2 miles of nuclear sites. B11

Ripples From Sept. 11

ECONOMIC STIMULUS -- The Bush administration pressured Congress to reach agreement on the stalled economic recovery package. A12

BUSINESS IN THE MAIL -- With the holiday season approaching, the mail order industry is scrambling to assuage new public fears about unsolicited deliveries. A12

FUND-RAISING HALTED -- American Red Cross officials suspended fund-raising for victims of the terrorist attacks, saying that the $547 million pledged so far should be enough to cover the costs of relief efforts. B11

PAKISTANI INDUSTRY -- Pakistan's textile and apparel industry, which employs 60 percent of the country's industrial work force, has lost at least 18,000 jobs recently after some American clothing retailers decided not to renew orders. C1

FEAR AND FIELD TRIPS -- Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Big Onion Walking Tours has not had a school group show up for a previously scheduled tour of different sections of New York, like Chinatown and Central Park. They groups all said they are too afraid. D3

LOAN REJECTIONS -- More than half of the small businesses in New York City that applied for federal disaster loans since the trade center attacks have had their applications rejected, resulting in one of the lowest loan-approval rates in recent years among communities that have had to grapple with large-scale disasters. D8

The Arts

ESCAPIST TV -- Writers of successful television comedies set in New York are studiously ignoring the real-life events of Sept. 11. Perhaps as a result, the shows are doing better than ever. E1

Portraits of Grief B12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); ANTHRAX (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BACTERIA (87%); HOSPITALS (86%); ANTIBIOTICS (86%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UZBEKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1078 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2361 words

HEADLINE: In Crisis Management, Green Aims to Be Calm and Compassionate 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview with the mayoral candidate Mark Green conducted yesterday by reporters and editors of The New York Times.

Q. So it's 3 o'clock a couple of months from now and you're sitting in City Hall, Mayor Green, and the attorney general gets on television and says there's a threat, a credible threat, but we don't know what it is. What do you do?

MARK GREEN -- I call my police and fire commissioners and the head of the Office of Emergency Management and ask them to come to City Hall so we can review the latest information that we've been gathering on such threats locally. By then there'll be a deputy police commissioner for counterterrorism . . . whose mission will be to stay in touch with regional equivalents, the F.B.I. and Governor Ridge of Homeland Security. One of the problems with terrorism is that they can strike anywhere where you're least prepared. The World Trade Center comes to mind. But you just try to have the best plans in place. Jerry Hauer's told me that until Sept. 11, he thought that New York . . . was the most prepared municipality in the country to anticipate and respond to terrorism. But there's always more to do. He suggested that our hospitals could be better linked and ready to handle casualties and can be better used as points of departure, P.O.D.'s, for distribution of antibiotics, for example. . . . The attitude I bring to any such meeting would . . . reflect the temperament that Rudy Giuliani brought to the tragedy six Tuesdays ago. You've got to be calm. You've got to be resolute. . . . You've got to be compassionate. But you have to utterly focus on the threat and the challenge in front of you.

Q. And what do you tell New Yorkers?

MR. GREEN -- Depends on the information I get. . . . What I would tell New Yorkers is what I would tell my own family. There's no alternative to getting on with our lives. But at the same time just be alert to anything unusual happening. . . . If you see people in your neighborhood who are acting in a very unusual way, think whether it's worth reporting that to the local police. Normalcy is essential, balanced by prudence.

Q. Do you think, from a public policy point of view, the attorney general was right in sort of passing on an unspecific warning like that? Would you like that, or would you share information like that?

MR. GREEN -- Of course the answer to that turns on exactly what he knows -- which I don't know. My wife and I were discussing that . . . we thought that it seemed alarmist without a purpose. But again, he might know something that we don't.

Q. What about day-to-day safety and security? You've spoken about more random searches happening in public places. How often would those kind of things happen? And . . . say the police found, not weapons or something, but a six-pack of beer on a teenager, would that be used to prosecute the teenager for alcohol?

MR. GREEN -- It is, of course, constitutionally impermissible and divisive for the police to select entire categories of people by race, ethnicity, nationality, to search. My memory is that it is constitutionally permissible to have a checkpoint where you stop randomly every 10th car and ask for ID. And it is constitutionally permissible that if you see something in open view that is potentially illegal, let's say an unlicensed weapon or contraband, the police then are allowed to seize it and prosecute it. I'm a lawyer, but my memory is you're not allowed to, at random checkpoints, go into the trunk of a car without a search warrant. I want to give more professional discretion to the cop on the beat to decide, given all the circumstances, whether to prosecute a 19-year-old at a checkpoint who happens to have an exposed beer can in a car at a time when the city should be focusing on anticipating, preventing or avoiding a terrorist attack. I don't know that's something that a mayor or someone from 1 Police Plaza ought to be deciding.

Q. Giving discretion to the cop on the beat was what presented a lot of the complaints in past years over police abuse. And as a corollary, when you talk about stopping one out of every 10, we have about a thousand people, even more according to this morning's paper, who are in detention, most of them secret. But I think it's safe to say that most of them have either the names Mohammed, Abdul or Ahmed in their names. How do you go against -- how do you stop the terror threat that you know comes from a specific group without stopping only or primarily people from that group? . . .

MR. GREEN -- Of course, you have to have guidelines from City Hall and 1 Police Plaza . . . that can guide police in exercising their discretion on the street. You don't just leave it up to a police officer willy-nilly in each ZIP code to enforce the law. Remember, I've had several private meetings with police officers off hours, no brass, no chiefs. And one, a white officer in Queens, told me, "Mr. Green, what good does it do to have 20 more so-called quality-of-life arrests -- and then have the community hate you?" And he argued that he should have the discretion whether to arrest a truly menacing young man who was blocking an entrance to a convenience store drinking a beer. But should he have the discretion not to arrest a 60-year-old man sitting on . . . the stoop with his family drinking a beer. As for the profiling issue, this is a very agonizing issue. I watched how Ray Kelly, who's the head of customs, avoided racial profiling, . . . using other indicia and more intercepts at the borders to reduce the amount of contraband and dangerous weapons from coming in at our borders. And I just hope that by better technology, smarter triggers, that we can avoid . . . apprehending anybody who has Mohammed as a first name -- other generations had other first and last names.

Q. Can we talk about the budget -- next year's? . . . Do you think the $4 billion deficit figure is about right?

MR. GREEN -- According to budget monitors at the Independent Budget Office and the Citizens Budget Committee, there was already an at least $2.5 billion shortfall in 2003 and 2004. This is not unusual because it is common to underestimate revenues at a time of growth. Computers are static and they don't always pick up a rising tide. Hence surpluses have covered out-year deficits in the past half-decade because of a strong economy. On the flip side, projections often don't pick up a decline -- as steep a decline as may be happening. I do have right now a budget advisory panel meeting to advise me as a candidate, but largely to advise me as a mayor-elect should I win on Nov. 6. It's chaired by Comptroller Hevesi and it has 10 experts at the state and city levels who are looking closely at the numbers and giving me advice on options. As of now, I believe there will be a minimum of $4 billion to a ceiling of $6 billion deficit in fiscal '03 which starts in eight months. As a percentage of . . . discretionary city spending, that is more than double the projected deficit through the 1990's. Where there was, you know, 4 to 6 percent was common, but $4 billion to $6 billion would be nearly 18 percent of discretionary city spending excluding federal and state contributions because the city doesn't -- would never cut that. We accept, we hope that's as large as feasible. So I do think the looming fiscal problem is as great a crisis as any since the . . . mid- to late-1970's. . . . Felix Rohatyn says that he thinks the budget gap and fiscal crisis is greater than the 1970's.

Q. But that's coming, isn't it?

MR. GREEN -- It's among the options. I think . . . since Sept. 11, I was the first public official to urge a temporary hiring freeze to shrink the work force through attrition, exempting cops and teachers. Now I would add firefighters because we lost 342 of them. But, look, if the fiscal situation worsens and we have the worst fiscal crisis in a half century, of course terrible things would be on the triage table. And if you'd like to ask me, one by one, what they are and what I would do, I'd say everything's on the table because the goal is to make the city economically and fiscally whole. . . .

Q. Would you push for increased raises for cops and firemen, and secondarily, teachers, above, beyond what others -- city workers -- would get? And how would you do that in the context of what you just said?

MR. GREEN -- The mayor's own budget anticipates the possibility of 4 percent salary increases for all civilian employees and 5 percent salary increase for all the uniformed personnel. This doesn't mean it should be that number. But it's awkward but essential that the city budget for possible increases. So already there is a anticipated if modest disparity between civilian and uniformed. Again, at a time of crisis, I'd be open to new ideas. . . . There is a presumption in favor of pattern bargaining because of history and convenience. It's what lawyers call a rebuttable presumption that there's a compelling case to the contrary. What's compelling? I'd have to be open to it if we couldn't hire cops and teachers because in the regional economy Nassau and Suffolk were hiring them away because they're paying starting salaries a third higher than we. So while there's a good argument based on precedent for pattern bargaining, there's also an economic argument for revisiting it. Or else we won't be able to fill the entering police class and the entering teacher group, both of which are essential for a safe, smart city.

Q. And which of those arguments do you prefer?

MR. GREEN -- I'll know better when I see the data. And I'll certainly be able to talk about it when I negotiate at the proper forum, which is a collective bargaining table. . . . But I have resisted throughout the whole campaign saying what I would give to get in municipal labor negotiations. And I think it's important to stick to that. Otherwise . . . politicians can start playing a pandering game where they throw out big numbers without obligations. At the risk of credentialing the attacks on my self-confidence and arrogance, since I thought I would be elected at the start of this campaign, I resisted making excessive promises in the belief that I'd have to keep them. By the way, I've run sometimes in a campaign where it was real hard to get elected. And there it's real easy to make big promises to get big headlines . . . because they're unlikely to be redeemed. I thought I'd have to redeem my promises. And at the risk of again offending Ed Koch, I've tried to not enter office with a lot of I.O.U.'s that might hurt the city.

Q. Back to the deficit and what the city faces over the next couple of years. The governor has endorsed your opponent and he's seeking $54 billion in aid from the federal government to help both the state and the city. I want to know how much, or how realistic you think that aid request is, which pieces of it you think the city really needs and how you'll work with the governor to get what the city needs given the relationship between the two of you.

MR. GREEN -- First, the governor and I have an excellent relationship. And I know you know that it was 100 percent inevitable that the Republican governor and the Republican mayor would endorse the Republican nominee for mayor. That has absolutely no role or impact on my potential relationship should I be the mayor-elect. He and I have always gotten along very well. And I predict we'll get along better than the current governor and mayor. I think the bulk of his request was urgent and necessary. And at the margins, there were some requests that Washington legislators thought were overreaching. I'm not going to undermine or second-guess the only relief package we're currently seeking in Washington. But on . . . the night of Nov. 6 or the day of Nov. 7, I look forward to speaking with Governor Pataki and beginning the first day of the rest of our lives -- the first day of a new relationship. . . . For example, today I'll be being endorsed on the steps of City Hall by Speaker Silver and a lot of assembly members. And I'll be discussing my proposal a week after the attack for a state-city redevelopment authority. It was the first proposal of its kind. And I want to just remind people that I think it wrong to argue we need a city authority, as my rival has said. Because it's jurisdictionally unsophisticated. It has to be a state-city authority for no other reason than the state is contributing funds and ideas. And the state creates the city under law. But any authority has to have parity between the governor and the mayor. And there has to not be an imbalance in say and sway over a emergency redevelopment authority between the governor and the mayor. . . . I spoke to the governor about my ideas within 10 days of the attack. And I had spoken to Speaker Silver about it two weeks ago. And I can't have a serious role in this as an aspirant, but I will have a serious role, I hope, in the creation of an emergency redevelopment authority as a mayor-elect.

Q. How's that redevelopment authority going to be financed if there are things, as you say, . . . on the margins like request for a high-speed rail that goes upstate to create jobs around the state?

MR. GREEN -- But that was a minor part of the package.

Q. But can you prioritize what things you would ask from Congress that should be financed immediately?

MR. GREEN -- Yeah, well, what should be financed immediately, of course, is to make us whole down there. Like a southern state after Hurricane Andrew. So that's to -- it's a FEMA relief for the cleanup over time. You can apply for it, but small businesses can apply for loans if they've been shattered, dislocated, lost revenues down there. Beyond that, I do want to take a more comprehensive approach to rebuilding downtown Manhattan. It's not simply those 17 acres in and around what was the World Trade Center, but a river-to-river Canal Street South, so we have a comprehensive commercial, retail, residential and cultural integrated plan for the downtown of the future. . . . We'll be paying the costs of Sept. 11 probably for a century. But it has provided the opportunity to think anew downtown.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Green (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ANTIBIOTICS (65%); BUDGETS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1079 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
These Spooky Times

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Last week, Georgetown University held a job fair. At the booths of the big Wall Street companies and banks, students had little wait. But to talk to a C.I.A. recruiter, the line stretched for over half an hour.
 Ed Friedman, 21, a senior studying at the School for Foreign Affairs, was in that line. "Two years ago," he said, "Goldman Sachs was the place to be -- even people in the School for Foreign Affairs lined up there. People were interested in six-figure salaries and they viewed the C.I.A. as not having much of a purpose." 
 But that was before Sept. 11. "Everyone wants to be part of this, to help," he said.
Despite questions of another quagmire, America is at the moment a weird inside-out image of the Vietnam era. The C.I.A. and R.O.T.C. are chic on elite campuses, where flags hang from dorm rooms. Police have gone from "pigs" to heroes. And many of those who complained about America's escalation in Southeast Asia are now complaining about America's hesitation in Central Asia.
In an odd role reversal, the country is more gung-ho than the administration. And the Pentagon seems more skittish about the mounting number of civilian casualties and more consumed with winning Afghan hearts than the rest of America is. 
Back then Walter Cronkite famously wondered what we were doing in Vietnam. Now Tom Brokaw presses Donald Rumsfeld about whether we can ever succeed in Afghanistan unless we put in "a division-size force, seize an airport, make that the base of operations." 
Just as some A.C.L.U. lawyers now secretly mutter that they want to seal our borders, and some liberals are easily dismissing their concerns about civil liberties abuses and capital punishment, so many old peaceniks are now hawky, less concerned about which group of beards runs post-Taliban Afghanistan than about aggressively going after the villains.
This is the first war since World War II that is personal. Vietnam was inspired by the domino theory, and dragged on because Lyndon Johnson and Robert McNamara did not want to lose face. Desert Storm was about keeping our gas prices low. 
But this time they brought the war to us, and now it is about protecting ourselves and the way we live.
The terrorists have already turned Halloween into an adult holiday and stolen Christmas. Who wants to open Christmas cards or touch catalogs or go to malls? They have debilitated our confidence, both in our economy and our freedom, and made us jittery about the very breaths we take and food we eat.
President Bush went to the Yankees game with 1,200 police officers as Dick Cheney headed back underground and John Ashcroft warned us to watch out for every single thing. 
But the truth is we can't be alert because we don't know what we're looking for, and most of what we're looking for is invisible, and we don't want to fall into ugly generalizations.
The F.B.I. has gotten over 300,000 tips from Americans trying to be alert, but the agency is still stumped.
Secretary Rumsfeld says agitation for a quicker military pace is due to the American desire for "instant gratification." But that is too glib. Americans are impatient about the war because -- unless we live near a crop duster or nuclear plant and can keep watch, or find ourselves on a plane being hijacked and can throw a punch -- it is our only avenue for striking back. 
Just as Robert McNamara once said we lost Vietnam because the government had never understood the Vietnamese culture, so Rear Adm. John Stufflebeem said yesterday that he had underestimated the tenacity of the Afghan troops because he had not understood that the Taliban "don't see the world the same way we do," or automatically accept American "inevitability."
Admiral Stufflebeem may be the last to know that Afghanistan is a stubborn and durable place, whose history is a long tale of war.
In a speech yesterday, Tony Blair said we must never forget the twin towers and the heroes "and the menace of bin Laden." It makes me worried that he is worried that the horror is already dimming. And it makes me nostalgic for that old "Wanted: dead or alive" certainty.
If ever the United States needed historical memory, it is right now. This is a just war, and not just war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); TALIBAN (86%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); TERRORISM (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); HIJACKING (69%); CHRISTMAS (63%); HALLOWEEN (63%); AIRLINES (63%); WORLD WAR II (61%); DESERT STORM (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); VIETNAM WAR 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (91%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); DICK CHENEY (53%) DOWD, MAUREEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); VIET NAM (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1080 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE NEW CASE; 
HOSPITAL WORKER'S ILLNESS SUGGESTS WIDENING THREAT; SECURITY TIGHTENS OVER U.S.

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
City and public health officials yesterday began giving antibiotics to hundreds of hospital employees and started tracking down thousands of patients and visitors as investigators searched for the mysterious source of the infection that has left a Manhattan hospital worker critically ill with inhalation anthrax. 
 The employee, identified as Kathy T. Nguyen, 61, of the Bronx, was described by health officials as being in grave condition on a respirator and struggling to survive after contracting the first case in New York of pulmonary anthrax, the most serious form of the disease. She worked in a medical supply room at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, in a spot that until recently had also housed a mailroom. 
 But health officials said they found no direct connection to any tainted mail and knew of no evidence of a suspicious letter, fueling the growing belief that the nascent path of anthrax infection had moved beyond media companies, government offices and mail routes, to ordinary citizens. 
That possibility also propelled officials to alert city hospitals, emergency rooms in particular, to watch for odd cases involving infections. And in a rare move, the authorities shut down Ms. Nguyen's employer, a small hospital on the Upper East Side known mostly for cosmetic surgery, and prepared to treat its staff and recent patients with antibiotics. Investigators began to retrace Ms. Nguyen's steps, and people in protective suits forced their way into her Bronx apartment to test for spores.
Word of the case spread on a day when the city was at its highest stage of alert anyway, as President Bush threw out the first ball at Game 3 of the World Series at Yankee Stadium and the city braced against continued warnings of credible threats of more terrorist attacks. Experts in hazardous materials, bomb-sniffing dogs and more than 1,000 police officers cased the stadium, and fans arrived hours before the game and went through X-ray machines, leaving bags and umbrellas home. Some hospitals kept extra staff members on hand in anticipation of a vast medical emergency.
Security was tightened around the nation. While Mr. Bush traveled, Vice President Cheney moved to an undisclosed location. "We're getting some intelligence that suggests that we may again be the focus of an attack or attacks," Tom Ridge, the director of the Office of Homeland Security, said, echoing remarks by Attorney General John Ashcroft on Monday.
"As a result of the alert yesterday, we have security guards at shopping malls paying more attention, personnel at airports paying more attention, the policemen on the street from the 11-to-7 beat who are driving that patrol car around that neighborhood," Mr. Ridge said. "If everybody has a heightened sense of alert, we send a signal not only to America, but those who would terrorize us, those who are trying to disrupt our way of life, that we are on guard as a country." 
Also yesterday, new federal office buildings were added to the growing list of those that have tested positive for traces of anthrax. Mr. Ridge said trace amounts of anthrax had been found on Monday in the mailroom of the Economic Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture, and the head of the State Department's medical unit said anthrax spores were "probably all over" the two-block-long building. 
Further, Postal Service officials said traces of anthrax spores had been found at a postal station in northwest Washington and in Dulles Station, Va., and Postmaster General John E. Potter said at a Senate hearing that the service would need several billion dollars for cleanup and new security measures. 
Also yesterday, health officials in New Jersey confirmed the second case of inhalation anthrax in a postal worker, a case they had already suspected. And an accountant who worked in Hamilton Township and contracted the first case of skin anthrax outside the post office there was released from a hospital, officials said. 
So far, three people have died of anthrax infections after inhaling spores, a photo editor in Florida and two postal workers in the Washington area. The similar, life-threatening anthrax infection apparently suffered by Ms. Nguyen is alarming, officials said, both because she did not work in the areas that have been identified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as most risky and because the source of her infection is a mystery. 
Prior to this week, in the other anthrax cases, the infected people worked for media companies or in government office buildings, which are suspected targets, or in a post office through which the anthrax-laced letters were carried.
But on Monday, two new cases -- that of Ms. Nguyen and the New Jersey accountant -- came to light that had no obvious connection to the tainted letters.
The accountant did not open mail as a regular part of her job and had not visited the Hamilton post office. 
Ms. Nguyen worked in a supply room at the hospital that was once adjacent to a mailroom, and postal officials said mail sent to the hospital would first be sorted at the Morgan Station distribution center in Manhattan, where anthrax spores have already been discovered in four high-speed sorting machines. 
However, that connection was tenuous, an extrapolation from previous cases, officials said. Health care workers and city officials readily acknowledged that Ms. Nguyen could have become infected outside the hospital.
"There's no question there's the possibility she got it somewhere else," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday. "The hospital is being focused on because that's where she worked. And she was proximate to a mailroom. And so you have to give that a lot of consideration. But so far the 10 samples that have come back have come back negative. And if all the rest come back negative then we're going to have to focus on the possibility that she got it somewhere else." The first 10 samples were from the mailroom.
Dr. Neal L. Cohen, the city's health commissioner, said Ms. Nguyen was in critical condition last night at Lenox Hill Hospital, the owner of Manhattan Eye and Ear. She arrived at Lenox Hill on Sunday after flulike symptoms that she began feeling on Thursday had rapidly escalated. According to Dr. Cohen, she developed chills and muscle aches on Thursday, but worked through them that day and Friday.
Late Sunday afternoon, she started to get very serious symptoms, and by late evening she had checked herself into Lenox Hill, where she remained yesterday on a respirator, Dr. Cohen said. Initial tests were consistent with anthrax, and while more results are pending, the case is being treated as such, he added. The case was announced late Monday.
Ms. Nguyen's illness underscored the complex and often confounding effort to diagnose and contain anthrax infections. Anthrax, which American health care workers have little exposure to, defies the diagnostic pathways laid out for other outbreaks of infectious diseases. For example, while the city's hospitals and doctors are trained to be on the alert for patterns of diseases, so far, anthrax cases have come in isolated cases. Since Sept. 11, the number of hospitals making detailed electronic logs of illness patterns among patients has almost doubled.
Further, anthrax symptoms at first mirror the flu, and so its victims have tended not to seek medical help until they are very ill, which makes treatment less effective. And while physicians have been schooled in what to look for in patients who come in with flu symptoms, health care officials concede that as recently as last week, they were discouraging people from running to the emergency room with every little ache. 
Now, as hospitals continue to gear up for possible chemical and biological attacks, they have also had to step up surveillance of their own employees. For example, workers at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center who come down with symptoms that resemble the flu are now extensively interviewed, and doctors are prepared to X-ray, take blood samples from and give antibiotics to anyone they suspect has been exposed to anthrax. The hospital had already taken nasal swabs of 250 employees who worked in the Midtown office building shared with Gov. George E. Pataki, where slight traces of anthrax were found two weeks ago.
"There is a move now to provide a much more thorough work-up" on people who come to hospitals with flu symptoms, said Susan C. Waltman, general counsel for the Greater New York Hospital Association, "and that could extend to hospital workers." The trade group and the mayor are encouraging people to get flu shots.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees of Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital waited for testing and antibiotics at Lenox Hill Hospital yesterday after inhalation anthrax was diagnosed in a woman who worked with them. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. A1); F.B.I. agents trying to find the source of the anthrax that sickened a Bronx woman interviewed her neighbors yesterday, seeking details about her. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); ANTIBIOTICS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); ANTHRAX (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); BACTERIA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); AIRPORTS (85%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); AIRLINES (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); DOGS (70%); HIJACKING (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); SPORTS FANS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (51%); RETAILERS (50%) ANTHRAX; ANTIBIOTICS; POSTAL SERVICE; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HOSPITALS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) MANHATTAN EYE EAR AND THROAT HOSPITAL (NYC); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT; OFFICE OF HOMELAND SECURITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); DICK CHENEY (50%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; NGUYEN, KATHY T; RIDGE, TOM (DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); DULLES STATION (VA)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1081 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Tracing the Deadly Path of Anthrax

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map New Jersey Postal worker, in her 40's, recovering.Postal worker in serious condition.Daniel Patrick O'Donnell, 35, postal worker, recovering.Richard Morgano, postal worker, recovering. The three known lettersTo Senator Tom DaschleLOCAL POST OFFICE To Tom BrokawLOCAL POST OFFICE To The New York PostLOCAL POST OFFICE HAMILTON TOWNSHIP PROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTION CENTERSpores found in several areas tested. CARTERET MAIN TRANSFER FACILITYWarehouse where forklifts put mail into trucks. No signs of anthrax. ANTHRAX CASES CUTANEOUSINHALATIONDIED OF INHALATION PRINCETON MAIN POST OFFICESmall amounts of anthrax found. No infections reported. WEST TRENTON POST OFFICENo anthrax found in tests in facility. Teresa Heller, letter carrier, recovering UNKNOWN CONNECTIONA 51-year-old woman who works in an accounting firm in Mercerville, four miles from the Hamilton Facility, recovering. Washington BRENTWOOD SORTING FACILITYThomas L. Morris Jr., 55, postal worker.Joseph P. Curseen Jr., 47, postal worker.Postal workerLeroy Richmond, 57, postal worker.Daschle letter New York City New York City MORGAN STATION MANHATTANOn Oct. 25, anthrax spores were found on four high-speed mail-sorting machines. BOCA RATON POST OFFICEDelivers mail to American Media Inc., which publishes The Sun. A minuscule amount of anthrax spores were found in the main post office on Oct. 15. Buildings in Washington, on maps at right, where anthrax was found 1. Hart Senate Office Building.2. Dirksen Senate Office Building.3. House mailroom in Ford Office Building.4. Congressional mail sorting center.5. White House offsite mailroom.6. State Dept. mail processing center. (Postal worker, 59, department mail center)7. State Dept. mailroom.8. Walter Reed Army Medical Center.9. Walter Reed Army Institute of Research Mailroom.10. Longworth House Office Building.11. C.I.A. mail processing building.12. Neighborhood post office.13. Justice Dept. mail facility.14. A Supreme Court offsite mail center.15. Mailroom in the Supreme Court.16. Offices of Department of Health and Human Services, Voice of America.17. Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service.18. Friendship Heights Station post office.19. Post office at retail facility at Dulles airport. Rockefeller Center StationErin O'Connor, 38, assistant to Tom Brokaw at NBC, recovering. Times Square StationJohanna Huden, 30, assistant to the editorial page editor at The New York Post, recovering. In these three cases, mail comes through the Morgan Station in Manhattan but there is no known connection to a letter at this time. Claire Fletcher, 27, an assistant to Dan Rather at CBS, recovering. A 7-month-old son of an ABC producer, recovering. Kathy Nguyen, 61, a supply room worker at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital. MAILROOM IN AMERICAN MEDIA INC. Robert Stevens, 63Photo editor for The Sun. Ernesto Blanco, 73Mail supervisor for The Sun, discharged from hospital, recovering. Map of New Jersey highlighting Hamilton Township. (pg. B6)Map of Florida highlighting location of Boca Raton. (pg. B6) Map of New York City highlighting locations of Dan Rather's office at CBS, Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, Tom Brokaw's office at NBC, New York Post, and Gov. George E. Pataki's office. (pg. B7) Maps of Maryland highlighting builidings where Anthrax was found. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (89%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); VOICE OF AMERICA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1082 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Vivendi of France Reports A Strong Financial Quarter

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Bucking the trend of gloom that has settled over much of the media industry, Vivendi Universal S.A. of France, Europe's biggest media company, announced strong quarterly financial results yesterday.
 The company reported a 24 percent increase in revenue from its media operations, which include Universal Studios and Universal Music and the French pay television service Canal+. The results for the company, which does not yet fully use American-style accounting methods, did not include its water-processing and liquor businesses. 
 Compared with the other media giants, Vivendi has been buffered from the poor advertising environment and the general slowing of the United States economy. Those problems have already hurt the results of AOL Time Warner, the News Corporation and Viacom, which are all significantly reliant on advertising revenue and derive a large portion of their revenue from the United States. 
By contrast, Vivendi generates less than 5 percent of its sales from advertising and generates only about 35 percent of its revenue in the United States.
Vivendi said yesterday that its third-quarter revenue was 7.3 billion euros, or about $6.6 billion, based on current exchange rates. The results included the effect of acquisitions and spinoffs, like the company's $2.2 billion acquisition of Houghton Mifflin, the educational publisher, last summer.
The company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, often referred to as cash flow and the most commonly watched financial measure for media companies, increased by 90 percent, to 1.5 billion euros, or about $1.35 billion.
As a French company, Vivendi does not report its results in full accordance with United States accounting principles. Nor does the company report per-share figures. As a result, financial analysts in the United States had not estimated what Vivendi's results would be, according to Thomson Financial/First Call, a firm that polls analysts. Vivendi intends to begin reporting its results in line with United States accounting standards next year.
Vivendi Universal was formed last year when Vivendi, traditionally a French conglomerate, acquired Seagram Ltd. and its Universal media units, and separately acquired Canal+. 
Vivendi has been trying to unload Seagram's liquor business. But a deal to sell that unit to the European spirits companies Diageo and Pernod Ricard for $8.15 billion was blocked last week by the Federal Trade Commission on the ground that the arrangement would give Diageo too much power in the rum market.
Yesterday, however, Vivendi executives said that the companies were in discussions with regulators over how to win their approval and that the companies were confident that the sale would be completed by the end of the year.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and spin-offs -- what might be called results from continuing operations in American financial parlance -- Vivendi's revenue increased by about 8 percent in the third quarter, compared with the period a year earlier. Excluding the effect of deals, the company's Ebitda increased by 36 percent over the year-earlier quarter.
Especially in an economic environment as unsettled as the current one, those were robust results. One of Vivendi's main engines appeared to be its television and film unit, where hits including "Jurassic Park III" and "American Pie 2" helped send the division's revenue up by 10 percent and Ebitda up by 73 percent.
"Having the highest resiliency and lowest sensitivity to a recessionary environment explains our ability to outperform most of our peers," Jean-Marie Messier, Vivendi's chairman, said in a statement. 
The company said that in the first three quarters, it had already exceeded its full-year target for financial synergies between Vivendi and Seagram. Mr. Messier also said the company was poised to meet its 2001 financial goals of 10 percent revenue growth and 35 percent Ebitda growth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); EBITDA (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EURO (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (97%); PERNOD RICARD SA (84%); AOL INC (70%); NEWS CORP (70%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); VIACOM INC (56%); DIAGEO PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: VIDENDI SA 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (97%); VIV (BIT) (97%); RI (PAR) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (70%); NWS (NASDAQ) (70%); NWS (ASX) (70%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); DGE (PAR) (52%); DGE (LSE) (52%); DEO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (97%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (97%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (97%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (84%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%) SIC1623 WATER; SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1083 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Conseco Posts Loss And Lowers Outlook For 4th Quarter 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CARMEL, Ind., Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Conseco, the finance and insurance firm, posted a loss for a second quarter, as it wrote down $471 million of junk bonds, mortgage debt and other assets. The company also said today that it had cut its fourth-quarter forecast. 
 Conseco's net loss narrowed to $410.6 million, or $1.21 a share, from $489.5 million, or $1.50, a year earlier. The loss marked the latest setback for the chairman, Gary Wendt, who has struggled to increase profits by cutting 5,000 jobs and selling assets. 
 Shares of Conseco, which have fallen more than 80 percent from a high on May 3 of $20.20, slid 32 cents, to $3.72.. 
Excluding the write-offs and realized gains and losses, Conseco's operating results missed estimates, hurt by a slowing economy that caused a rise in defaults on loans to people who pay their debts late or have spotty credit. The slowdown and equity market declines also pared Conseco's assets under management and fee income and dampened demand for variable annuities. Conseco, which is based in Indianapolis, had operating earnings in the quarter of $60.6 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with $40.8 million, or 12 cents, a year earlier. The results were below the estimate of 20 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Financial/First Call. 
Mr. Wendt said in a statement that Conseco's fourth-quarter operating earnings would be in the range of 17 cents to 20 cents a share. That will mean operating earnings of 72 cents to 75 cents for the year, down from a previous estimate of 80 to 95 cents. 
"I am disappointed that our original earnings expectations turned out to be too optimistic," Mr. Wendt said. Conseco is about 12 months behind schedule on its turnaround because of the slowing economy, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); ANNUITIES (71%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSECO INC 

TICKER: CNO (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%) INDIANA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1084 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Law Firm May Lay Off 10% of Associates 

 BODY:
Shearman & Sterling, a law firm based in New York with about 1,000 lawyers in 18 offices worldwide, has quietly informed employees that as many as 10 percent of its associates might be laid off because of the slowing economy, a person close to the firm said yesterday. A majority of the lawyers who will be affected work on corporate transactions, this person said. 
 The announcement makes Shearman one of the first prominent New York firms to acknowledge that it has been significantly affected by spending cutbacks at its corporate clients over the last year, although partners at several other law firms have said privately that they are seeing steep revenue declines as well. 
 The affected associates will receive three months' notice and assistance in finding other employment, a spokesman for the firm, Edward J. Burke, said. Mr. Burke said that the firm would still finish the year larger than it began it because of this fall's influx of law school graduates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%) LEGAL PROFESSION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: SHEARMAN & STERLING 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%) SIC8111 OFFICES OF LAWYERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1085 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Accuses The Japanese Of Inflexibility On Trade Talks 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
Using unusually blunt language to pressure a leading ally, the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, said today that Japan's pursuit of its own "narrow-minded interests" threatened to obstruct efforts to forge agreement at a long-planned world trade summit meeting.
 While the United States and the European Union have worked together to draft an agenda for global trade talks scheduled to take place in Doha, Qatar, next week, Japan, the world's second-largest economy, has sat on the sidelines, hobbled by its own domestic "paralysis," Mr. Zoellick said. 
 "Japan has just said no to everything in this process," Mr. Zoellick said in a question-and-answer session after an address on trade issues here. "I have been, frankly, extremely disappointed by the lack of Japanese -- I wouldn't expect leadership -- but even respectable followership." 
Mr. Zoellick's comments were clearly part of an American strategy to soften the Japanese stance as trade ministers scramble to make progress on divisive issues, including trade in agricultural products, before the World Trade Organization talks formally commence. But Mr. Zoellick was also expressing concern that negotiations could collapse just as they did two years ago in Seattle, where fights between rich and poor nations and violent street protests sunk hopes of reducing trade barriers.
"If other countries refuse to cooperate and compromise, we cannot compel a result," Mr. Zoellick said.
Pointed criticism of a major ally is rare in diplomatic circles, and the effort to single out Japan as an obstacle comes at an especially sensitive time. The United States has been urging Japan to help combat terrorists by sending money to Pakistan, a front-line ally, and rescinding a ban on deploying Japanese soldiers abroad.
Japan recently agreed to lift sanctions it imposed on Pakistan after that country became a nuclear power, clearing a path for more aid and debt relief. Its Parliament voted this week to allow Japanese troops to serve in noncombat roles abroad.
The White House on Monday praised Japan for taking that rare step. But Japanese officials complain privately that the concession received too little attention in Washington.
Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said today that the administration's policy toward Japan had not changed and that it had always maintained a "constructive and candid" relationship with that country.
Mr. Zoellick was not specific about why he felt Japan had stalled negotiations. But Bush administration officials say that Japan has repeatedly declined to endorse the idea of negotiating freer trade for farm goods, the highest American trade priority. Japan, struggling to re-ignite an economy that has not had sustained growth in a decade, has balked at challenging its politically powerful and elaborately protected rice farmers.
Japanese officials acknowledge that they have so far refused to compromise on farm goods. But one official today called Mr. Zoellick's comments "surprisingly harsh," adding that both the United States and the European Union had core trade positions that they were unwilling to compromise ahead of the trade summit meeting.
"They have their strong domestic constituencies and we have ours," a Japanese trade official said. "They do not want to offend these constituencies before the negotiations are complete. That is also our position."
Yet the fear is that ministers will travel to Qatar with too many such disputes left wide open. Trade negotiators fear unscripted debates much as trial lawyers hesitate to ask questions with uncertain answers; reaching agreement is easier when the differences are narrow and clearly defined.
Ministers are also worried because they will have to confront that task in an uncertain environment. Trade negotiators and lobbyists are complaining about the decision to hold the trade talks in Qatar despite the war in Afghanistan and threats against Westerners in the Middle East. The location was chosen last year, and Qatar resisted entreaties to move the talks someplace else after Sept. 11.
The United States and other major nations have announced that they will arrive with a relatively small contingent of negotiators. Many delegates say they want to wrap up the talks quickly.
The most recent draft texts indicate that leading countries are still far apart on perhaps half a dozen issues going into the summit meeting, despite efforts by both the United States and the European Union to settle disputes and shorten the agenda.
Among the most contentious issues: The United States, Australia and many developing countries that have comparative advantages in farm goods are pushing hard on agricultural subsidies against Japanese, and to a lesser extent, South Korean and European resistance.
Europe has fought to win more rights to restrict imports for environmental reasons and to make it easier for companies to invest around the world. Japan has pressed for negotiations on what it argues is the abuse of antidumping rules by the United States and other nations that restrict imports they claim are sold below their production cost. Many poor countries are eager to soften trade rules that protect intellectual property, and they want more trading rights for low-end manufactured goods, like textiles.
Bush administration officials have in the past said that they preferred to use white gloves when dealing with Japan, contrasting their approach with the Clinton administration's expressions of frustration. During the Clinton years, top officials pressured Japanese leaders to fix their banks and do more to stimulate their slumping economy.
But President Bush has also made starting a new round of global trade talks a top priority, speaking frequently on the subject in recent days. He and other top officials have said that forging ahead with trade negotiations will solidify the alliance against terrorism and help revive the world economy.
And American officials have come to view Japan as the most intransigent sparring partner, unwilling even to informally signal flexibility to help map areas of potential compromise.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); RICE FARMING (66%); TERRORISM (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (92%) ZOELLICK, ROBERT B (TRADE REPR); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); QATAR (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%) JAPAN; DOHA (QATAR)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1086 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Trump Says He May Miss Bond Interest Payments
With the outlook gloomy for his Atlantic City casinos, Donald Trump said that he might not make nearly $90 million in interest payments due tomorrow on his bonds. He has enough cash, he said, but may try to negotiate with bondholders to reduce the amount owed because his casinos are loaded with debt and confronting increased competition.
 At least some bondholders said they did not take Mr. Trump's threats seriously. They are wondering whether Mr. Trump is trying to take advantage of a decline in bond prices to cut a deal. Market Place. Page C13. 

Vivendi Posts Strong Results
Vivendi Universal, Europe's biggest media company, announced strong quarterly financial results, including a 24 percent increase in revenue from its media operations. C8.

Consumer Confidence Falls Sharply
The Conference Board's consumer confidence index plummeted in October to its lowest level in more than seven years. C4.

Stocks Decrease Broadly Again
Stocks plunged as investors responded to the consumer confidence report. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 147.52 points, or 1.6 percent, to 9,121.98. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 32.11 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,667.41, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 18.51 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,059.79. C12.

Drug Research Money Is Sought
Drug companies are asking for government contracts to undertake research on bioterror drugs, creating a debate among executives, politicians and activists over how close the industry should get to the government. B10.

Breaking With Corporate America
David L. Steward, chief of World Wide Technology in St. Louis, recalled his break with corporate America. "I had a mortgage, two kids and a wife," he said. "We were living paycheck to paycheck with all the trappings that hold you close to a job." He was able to buy a consulting firm in Kansas City, Mo., with no money down and after about a year, it started making money. "During the struggles," he said, "the one thing I remember was the continued support from my wife." The Boss. C6.

Gillette Introduces a Line of Razors
Gillette introduced a line of blades and razors called Mach3 Turbo that will cost about $9 for a razor and two blades, a 17 percent premium over the current Mach3 line. C4.

Nominee for Safety Commission
President Bush announced that he intended to nominate Harold D. Stratton Jr., a former New Mexico attorney general, to lead the Consumer Product Safety Commission. A13.

Swissair Faces Grounding Again
Another cash shortage is threatening to ground Swissair, this time because subsidiaries that perform aircraft maintenance and handle ticketing and reservations are nearly out of money. World Business, Section W.

AOL Told to Remove Music Player
A federal court has ruled that America Online probably violated a copyright of a software company and ordered AOL to remove the music player feature from the AOL 6.0 software used by more than 10 million customers. C2.

Database Used to Profile Fliers
Airlines are making much more use of a database that has 26 categories for profiling potential terrorists. It also is programmed to choose passengers at random to avoid allegations of bias. Business Travel: Joe Sharkey. C13.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,121.98 down 147.52Nasdaq composite -- 1,667.41 down 32.1110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.41% down 0.07The euro -- $0.9050 up 0.0018The dollar -- 122.02 yen down 0.04 Graph: "TODAY" shows G.D.P. figures from the 1st quarter of last year.Third quarter figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.0%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); BONDS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (88%); AIRLINES (83%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); LITIGATION (62%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (83%); AOL INC (50%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%); AOL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1087 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: In Spanish Or English, Debate Has Rowdy Tone 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
In an often rowdy encounter before a hooting, cheering audience, Michael R. Bloomberg and Mark Green offered differing views last night on rebuilding New York, on improving public education and on what the city needed in its next mayor. They poked and jabbed away at each other's credentials and style, and the audience egged them on.
 It was the first of two debates between the candidates -- Mr. Green insisted there be only two -- and it was the first Spanish-language mayoral debate in the history of New York, the organizers said. 
 Mr. Green and Mr. Bloomberg wore earpieces, which served up simultaneous (and often rough) English translations of questions that were posed in Spanish. Their answers were simultaneously translated into Spanish for broadcast on a Spanish radio station, WADO-AM, and Univision 41, the Spanish-language television station. 
Given the broadcast stations that sponsored the debate, the result of a draw from a hat, aides to Mr. Green and Mr. Bloomberg said it was unlikely that many New Yorkers would see or hear more about the debate. It took place on the afternoon of the third game of the World Series, which was played in the Bronx with President Bush in attendance, and in city distressed by the terrorist attack of seven weeks ago, and worried about the potential for another one.
But there was much to see.
Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, presented himself as an independent-minded business leader who could push the city through difficult years. He painted Mr. Green as a career politician, indebted to special interests, be they builders that contributed to his campaign or unions that endorsed him.
Mr. Bloomberg said that the city needed to make changes in the way it regulates construction and turned to Mr. Green. "How can you do that when you also take $700,000 from the the real estate industry? At least I don't have any conflicts at all."
Mr. Green waited until the cheering from Mr. Bloomberg's supporters in the auditorium at New School University settled down. "It is true that a person who tries to buy City Hall has fewer conflicts of interest," he said. "I concede the point. I'm not trying to win an auction. I'm trying to earn an election."
For his part, Mr. Green, a Democrat, portrayed Mr. Bloomberg as a wealthy, politically ungrounded novice. He noted that his opponent had no experience in government, and he mentioned frequently that Mr. Bloomberg was spending huge sums of money to win the mayoralty.
He suggested that Mr. Bloomberg had displayed a lack of conviction by quitting the Democratic Party to run as a Republican, and mocked his explanation that he had done that because the Republican Party had "invited" him to run, while the Democrats had not.
"I have been, I am, and I will be a proud Democrat, and I didn't have to change my parties or my principles to run for mayor," Mr. Green said. 
He added: 'You didn't have to wait for an invitation. You switched party in order to run for mayor. And I think that is treating principles rather cavalierly."
This time it was Mr. Bloomberg's turn to wait for the cheering of Mr. Green's coterie of supporters to fade away. "It has nothing to do with principles," he said. "All it has to do with is how you get a chance to serve."
All this led to a series of exchanges that grew in intensity as the debate rolled on.
Mr. Bloomberg, noting that Mr. Green had won the support of most of the city's major unions in the general election, said: "You've got to remember the unions are there to represent their members and get the best financial deal for their members. If I were a union leader, I would like to have Mark Green across the table rather than Michael Bloomberg."
Mr. Green looked toward Mr. Bloomberg and noted that he had visited the headquarters of the city's powerful health care workers and met privately for more than an hour with its leader, Dennis Rivera.
"Is it sour grapes that you sat down with Dennis Rivera and that he didn't endorse you?" he said. "Why did you sit down with him if you didn't want his support? I am real proud that in the first time in 20 years, the firefighters, the police officers and 14 uniformed service unions are all endorsing the Democrat for mayor. It's not something I'm going to apologize for."
At that, Mr. Green's contingent responded with rowdy shouts of "Tell him, Mark!"
The debate brought out some fairly clear differences between these two men on issues.
Mr. Bloomberg said that the financial services industry had already begun to flee downtown New York before the attack of Sept. 11, and that the city needed to figure out a new way to promote economic development in the area. "What we have to find for the World Trade Center site is a whole new industry that wants to come there, that wants to be there," he said.
Mr. Green disputed that assessment, and asserted that it would undermine New York's economy not to replace it. "The heart of financial services was in downtown Manhattan," he said. 
Both candidates repeatedly said that aside from the rebuilding, the public school system remained the critical problem facing New York's next government. "Education, education, education, education," Mr. Bloomberg said repeatedly. 
Mr. Bloomberg said the city should increase salaries for the existing teachers to avoid an exodus of experienced school personnel. "If you don't have enough money to do everything, the first and foremost thing is to pay our teachers that have the experience," he said. "We keep losing teachers, and our focus ought to be on retaining teachers."
Repeatedly, Mr. Green said the priority should instead be hiring more teachers to reduce class size in the lower grades, noting that Mr. Bloomberg had said earlier in the campaign that it was unrealistic to expect to be able to reduce class size. "I think it's really defeatist to say that we can't shrink class size and we can't hire more teachers," he said.
They also argued over Mr. Bloomberg's contention that most neighborhoods did not want new high schools. "What we have to do is find ways to have high schools without destroying the neighborhoods," he said. "That's why I think building a bunch of high schools on Governors Island would be a great idea."
As he talked, Mr. Green spoke over him, suggesting neighborhoods -- the Upper East Side and Kingsbridge in The Bronx -- that would welcome a school.
Mr. Bloomberg challenged Mr. Green to account for his toughly worded attacks on Fernando Ferrer, his opponent in the Democratic primary, who was sitting in the audience for the debate. Mr. Bloomberg listed some criticisms Mr. Green had made of Mr. Ferrer, and asked: "How can you go then and ask for his support?"
To which Mr. Green responded: "This from a man who a week ago said he wouldn't be divisive." He said the exchanges with Mr. Ferrer were part of the back-and-forth that takes place in a contested campaign.
At another point, an audience member asked Mr. Green whether he would name the Rev. Al Sharpton, who was one of Mr. Ferrer's most prominent supporters, to a post in City Hall should he win. Mr. Green grinned widely at the question.
"I've never said who I would ask to leave the Giuliani administration or whom I might appoint," he said. "Let me say from the point of political obviousness, I am certainly not going to start with the Rev. Sharpton."
At several points, Mr. Bloomberg sounded more like a Democrat than Mr. Green did. He said he would support paying city employees more, within the constraints of the city budget. He said that, in an effort to bring more minorities into City Hall, he would tell his commissioners, "You get us diversity or you're not going to work for me."
In a discussion of homelessness, he said: "We can not let people sleep on the streets. We have to get them into accommodations that are clean and safe, and then find the way to pay for it, no matter what it takes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Green and Michael R. Bloomberg offered sharply differing views in a debate yesterday on rebuilding the city and spending for the public schools. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Mark Green and Michael R. Bloomberg held the first Spanish-language mayoral debate in New York's history. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITIES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); REAL ESTATE (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; SPANISH LANGUAGE; DEBATING; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: WADO-AM (NYC RADIO STATION) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1088 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Top Democrats Are Confident Of a Victory by McGreevey 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
In a signal that Democrats are increasingly confident about winning the New Jersey governor's race, the national party chairman, Terry McAuliffe, campaigned at the State House here today, not for James E. McGreevey, but for three legislative candidates from Mercer County. 
 Mr. McAuliffe said his party would "take no chances and make sure that we have a massive get-out-the-vote operation" in the governor's race. But Mr. McAuliffe and other Democrats gleefully pointed to a new poll released today by Quinnipiac University showing Mr. McGreevey leading Bret D. Schundler, his Republican opponent, by 17 percentage points among likely voters. The telephone poll, conducted Oct. 10 to 15, surveyed 1,140 registered voters and identified 742 of them as likely to go to the polls. The margin of sampling error for likely voters was 4 percent. 
 With just one week until Election Day, the results of the poll were clearly discouraging for Mr. Schundler. In recent weeks, his campaign has fired off news releases after every new poll to proclaim that the gap between the candidates was closing. It did not issue any response to the Quinnipiac poll today. 
Mr. Schundler himself tried to laugh off the results. After an anti-tax rally this morning on the steps of the State House, he said, "I think all those people who want lower taxes, if they want them you better get out there and vote for me, because we need your support." 
Pressed about the 17-point margin, Mr. Schundler said, "I think, everybody, you better vote twice then, maybe voting once won't be enough, so you better vote early and often." Then, sounding optimistic, he added, "It just shows that we have got to have more people vote for me on Election Day, and then we'll still be able to win." 
Mr. Schundler's aides said today that he expected to get a lift from a letter by President Bush that is to be mailed to 600,000 New Jersey voters. Mr. Schundler had hoped that Mr. Bush would visit New Jersey to campaign with him, but the White House has avoided political events to maintain bipartisan support for the war on terrorism. 
"Bret has laid out a positive agenda to cut property taxes, improve New Jersey schools and revive the economy in the New York-New Jersey metropolitan area," Mr. Bush's letter said. "I know Bret Schundler can do all of these things because of his outstanding work as mayor of Jersey City." 
The Schundler campaign also released a new 30-second television advertisement featuring Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York. "In this crisis, New Jersey just can't afford to raise taxes," Mr. Giuliani says in the ad. "Now more than ever, you need a proven leader who will protect jobs and keep families safe. You need my friend Bret Schundler." 
The ad also seeks to combat one of Mr. McGreevey's most damaging attacks on Mr. Schundler throughout the campaign -- the assertion that he supports a law that would legalize concealed weapons. "And I'll tell you this," Mr. Guiliani says in the ad, "Bret will not change current gun laws -- he never wanted to." 
The Republican National Committee today began a nearly $1 million television advertising campaign for the final week of the race. The ad supports all Republican candidates in New Jersey and does not mention Mr. Schundler by name.
Mr. McAuliffe, the Democratic national chairman, said the effort by national Republicans was coming too late. "They know they can't win the governorship," he said. "They are worried about the Senate and the Assembly." 
This afternoon, Mr. McGreevey picked up the endorsement of the Black Ministers Council of New Jersey, an influential group that represents some 600 churches. In 1997, the council endorsed Gov. Christie Whitman over Mr. McGreevey, and it had hesitated to endorse Mr. McGreevey this year because of differences over racial profiling. 
Mr. McGreevey has voiced support for a law banning profiling, but he has opposed a ban on consent searches by law enforcement officers. Such a ban is a main priority of the ministers council. Nevertheless, the Rev. Reginald T. Jackson, the group's executive director, said the ministers had decided to endorse Mr. McGreevey. "Jim McGreevey today is stronger, more prepared and more self-assured than he was four years ago," Mr. Jackson said. "Jim McGreevey is up to the task."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James E. McGreevey, the Democratic candidate for governor of New Jersey, courting workers at a project on McCarter Highway in Newark. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); CITIES (63%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); TERRORISM (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; MCAULIFFE, TERRY; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1089 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The One-Eyed Man

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Somewhere I read that to really understand legislation you have to look for the clause giving special consideration to one-eyed bearded men with a limp -- that is, you have to look for the provision that turns a bill ostensibly serving a public purpose into a giveaway for some special interest. 
 Most of the commentary about the "stimulus" bill passed by the House last week focuses on the huge benefits it lavishes on giant corporations. But that doesn't tell us much about the specific interests being served. What's good for corporate America is good for General Motors; it would be hard to devise a bill that consists mainly of corporate giveaways without giving a lot of money to the biggest companies. To understand what the bill is really about, you have to look at the big payoffs to not-so-big companies. 
 One piece of the bill is custom-designed to benefit a small group of multinational financial firms. Another is clearly there for the sake of certain health insurors. But the most remarkable thing is how much of the benefit from repeal of the alternative minimum tax -- a measure that is also included in the Bush administration's supposed stimulus plan, and which seems to be one of the administration's key priorities -- goes to companies that are not all that big.
For example, it's not too surprising that calculations by Citizens for Tax Justice show General Motors, with its 380,000 workers, getting a check for $800 million. But it's quite amazing that TXU (formerly Dallas Power and Light), a company with only 16,000 employees, would get a check for $600 million. And there are a number of medium-sized companies that, like TXU, are in line for surprisingly big benefits. These companies include ChevronTexaco, Enron, Phillips Petroleum, IMC Global and CMS Energy. What do they have in common?
Well, they tend to be in the energy or mining businesses; and they tend to be based in or near Texas. In other words, the one-eyed bearded man with a limp looks a lot like Dick Cheney.
There is almost certainly a lot of overlap between the companies that would derive large benefits from alternative minimum tax repeal and those that would have received large subsidies under the energy plan devised by Mr. Cheney's task force. You may remember that the administration, in apparent defiance of the law, refused to make the records of that task force's meetings available to Congress; that's one of those issues that seems to have been dropped after Sept. 11. 
And I guess it's superfluous to point out that the big winners in all this seem to be companies that gave large, one-sided donations to the Republican Party in the last election. (This is not to suggest that Democrats are any less susceptible to the influence of money.) 
To me, the story of the Bush administration is starting to look like the plot of "Victor/Victoria." First we had a candidate who was supposed to be a moderate. Then we learned, or thought we learned, that this was a mask; he was really a hard-line conservative who pretended to be a moderate in order to gain office. 
But the latest economic proposals from the administration, like the Cheney energy plan, don't look as if they came from serious free-marketeers. They don't make sense in terms of either demand-side or supply-side economics, but they do give a lot of money to certain companies. So maybe ideology was just another mask for someone who was really the candidate of corporations -- not corporations in general, but a small group of companies with a quite specific set of business interests -- and who is only pretending to be a hard-line conservative who pretended to be a moderate in order to gain office.
It's an interesting and all too plausible picture. But it's a picture that most people will never see on their TV, and that many people would refuse to accept no matter how strong the evidence. That, of course, is what makes the whole thing possible. In the land of the blind, the one-eyed bearded man with a limp is king.
In last Wednesday's column I said the "original" war bonds were issued during World War II. In fact, war bonds were also issued during the Civil War and World War I. I don't think this affects the argument. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (83%); HIJACKING (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BONDS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); ETHICS (69%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); MINES & MINING (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ENERGY AND POWER; MINES AND MINING; ETHICS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CMS ENERGY CORP (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); CHEVRON CORP (53%); TXU US HOLDINGS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (81%); GM (NYSE) (57%); CMS (NYSE) (53%); CVX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (75%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1090 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Green Says City Faces Fiscal Crisis As Bad as in 70's 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mark Green warned yesterday that the $4-to-6-billion deficit that the city is expected to face next year is its greatest fiscal crisis since it nearly went bankrupt in the 1970's, and he said that he has "the experience in government to make hard choices, tell the public hard truths and take the heat."
 For the most part, Mr. Green avoided talking about specific cuts that he would make if he was elected mayor, except to reiterate his support for a temporary hiring freeze on all city workers other than teachers, police officers and firefighters. Although he still spoke about paying teachers more and hiring more of them to shrink class sizes, he made it clear that such goals would now take longer to achieve. 
 "Look, if the fiscal situation worsens and we have the worst fiscal crisis in a half-century, of course terrible things would be on the triage table," Mr. Green said during a 45-minute breakfast interview yesterday with reporters and editors of The New York Times. "And if you'd like to ask me, one by one, what they are and what I would do, I'd say everything's on the table because the goal is to make the city economically and fiscally whole." 
The interview with Mr. Green, 56, the Democratic nominee, was a stark reminder of the extent to which the attack on the World Trade Center has transformed the city and the race to govern it. The last time Mr. Green came for a breakfast interview, on Aug. 1, he spent a great deal of time enumerating his differences with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and discussing political issues that then seemed important.
Yesterday, by contrast, he found himself praising Mayor Giuliani for his handling of the crisis and describing his plans for more random searches by the police to keep the city safe from terrorist attacks and for building up a health network that could swiftly distribute antibiotics in the event of a large-scale biological attack. Instead of laying out plans for how to spend the increased revenues generated by the leasing of the World Trade Center, as he had in August, Mr. Green spoke yesterday about the rebuilding of the site.
And he cautioned that the nation should not overreact by detaining hundreds of people of Arab descent without cause, the way it incarcerated Japanese-Americans during World War II.
Still, Mr. Green, who sometimes describes himself as a "pathological optimist," held out hope that the city would be able to weather the looming economic crisis and rebuild itself. 
"Every mayor has lean years and fat years, and I don't doubt that the 108th mayor may be facing a couple of very lean years early in the hope and expectation that a nearly $400 billion private gross domestic economy called New York City will shake off even this economic assault and attack on our buildings and people and gain its footing in Years 3 to 8," he said.
During a wide-ranging discussion, Mr. Green promised to run an administration that would make information about the government readily available to the public; spoke of giving police officers on the beat greater discretion about when to make arrests in some cases; said he was amenable to privatizing some parks services, like tree-pruning; and left open the possibility of ending the city's long practice of pattern bargaining on labor contracts.
Mr. Green, who has sometimes battled a reputation for glibness, weighed his words carefully yesterday, clearly trying to sound more like a future mayor of New York than a former panelist on CNN's "Crossfire." He spoke like a man who expects to be governing soon, even using the term "mayor-elect."
At one point he explained why he had refused during the campaign to discuss what raises or contract provisions he planned to offer the city's unions by saying, "At the risk of credentialing the attacks on my self-confidence and arrogance, since I thought I would be elected at the start of this campaign, I resisted making excessive promises in the belief that I'd have to keep them."
The only criticism he made of Mr. Giuliani yesterday was that his administration was not forthcoming enough with information -- something Mr. Green pledged to change, even if it might damage him politically. "Trust me, I will be so transparent as compared to the Giuliani administration when it comes to disclosing numbers and flaws, my mayor's management report will be used by all of you to write articles about how I'm screwing up as mayor because I think it's important to run an open democracy," he said.
Mr. Green said he would appoint a deputy police commissioner for counterterrorism. The new powers given to the police and to federal authorities to try to prevent terrorism, like the increase in random stops, should be balanced with new discretion, he said. "I want to give more professional discretion to the cop on the beat to decide, given all the circumstances, whether to prosecute a 19-year-old at a checkpoint who happens to have an exposed beer can in a car, at a time when the city should be focusing on anticipating, preventing or avoiding a terrorist attack," he said.
And he said that, faced with a compelling enough reason, he would be open to ending pattern bargaining, the city's practice of using a contract with one municipal union to set the pattern for all others. "I'd have to be open to it if we couldn't hire cops and teachers because in the regional economy Nassau and Suffolk were hiring them away because they're paying starting salaries a third higher than we," he said.
Mr. Green did take a couple of swipes at his opponent, Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican nominee, but he never mentioned him by name. At one point, describing himself as a known quantity in New York politics, he added, "I am no novice who has suddenly been born full-blown into public life, defining myself in speeches in the election year."
Later, he called attention to his disagreement with Mr. Bloomberg over what kind of governmental entity should be responsible for rebuilding Lower Manhattan. Mr. Green said that the job should be done by a newly created authority that is run by the state and the city together. Mr. Bloomberg has said he believes that the existing city agencies and governmental authorities should be able to do it, a position that Mr. Green derided yesterday as "jurisdictionally unsophisticated." 
But Mr. Green resisted introspection when he was asked how the experience of running for mayor had changed him. "You know, most biologists and psychologists will tell you that you're basically formed in utero, either in utero or in the first six months," he said. "Well, in the last 55 and a half years since then, yes, I've learned a lot. But never more than in the last year."
Asked specifically what he had learned, though, he spoke of the desperation that parents in poor communities feel because their children are falling behind in school and lack health insurance, issues he has worked on for much of his career; of the problems small businesses face in navigating the city's bureaucracy; of the fact that there is a genre of music called Texas swing; and of just how diverse the city of New York has become.
When pressed again, Mr. Green explained that he had always known that the city was diverse, but that the experience of visiting so many people in so many communities had brought the point home as never before. "You know that the water goes down at Niagara Falls," he said, "but when you stand at the falls you just pick up a lot more." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); ASIAN AMERICANS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%) COOPER, MICHAEL; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1091 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Walking a Wary Line

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush was in the Bronx, home of one of the latest victims of inhalation anthrax, watching the World Series. Vice President Dick Cheney was in a secure location to preserve the chain of succession in the face of the second nationwide terrorism alert in three weeks.
 And where should Americans be this Halloween, balanced between frightful warnings of a new reality and injunctions to resume an old normalcy that seems ever more remote? The government's own message was, again, mixed: Be wary, but go on with workaday routines. 
 "It's a difficult and fine line that we walk," Tom Ridge, the White House's director of homeland security, said of the F.B.I.'s latest, unspecified warning -- based on what it calls credible but vague intelligence about more terrorist attacks. "But I think America understands and, hopefully, appreciates that when there's that kind of information available to us, we just share it with America, as incomplete as it might be." 
The White House press secretary, Ari Fleischer, acknowledging the tension inherent in keeping one's guard and one's chin up at once, told a reporter in his briefing this morning: "You say it's not normal, and you're correct. Neither is war."
In fact, as Raymond W. Kelly, the former New York police commissioner, said in an interview, it seems clearer than ever that "we're learning as we go along."
"It's hard to say what the happy medium is," he said. "Obviously, there are legitimate concerns. The government has something, we don't know what it is. It's partly a matter of getting information out that they think is important. But it's also that they don't want to be caught holding the bag if something bad happens."
Members of Congress, alert to the worries of their constituents, said the trick was how to keep the populace concerned about future emergencies without alarming people, a challenge that one Republican official called "a dicey deal."
After Mr. Ridge addressed separate party caucuses this afternoon, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said that a vague public warning "provokes its own level of panic," and that he hoped Mr. Ridge took away "a stronger sense that there are people who are disappointed about how this is being managed."
Across the government, optimistic exhortations blended with pessimistic analyses, as they have for days. 
Mr. Ridge said the mail was safe, "by and large," but the postmaster general, John E. Potter, told Congress that it would take billions of dollars to clean up contamination already found and devise safer ways to screen and sort the mail.
Mr. Ridge found comfort in the fact that about 25 billion letters had passed through the mails since the first anthrax case was identified in Florida almost a month ago and that only one person sick with inhalation anthrax, a 61-year-old hospital worker from the Bronx, had no apparent connection to a post office or bulk mailroom.
But health officials called her case troubling precisely because it did not fit the pattern and raised the possibility that the bacteria was being distributed in some new way.
President Bush has relentlessly urged Americans to fly and buy to help the economy, but his secretary of transportation, Norman Y. Mineta, told state and local transportation officials today that, despite improvements in airport security since Sept. 11, many deficiencies remained, adding, "This is intolerable."
Bush officials have made it clear that they do not take the frightening effect of the F.B.I.'s broad warning lightly, and they have debated whether to issue such warnings without specific information as to times and targets. 
Mr. Ridge acknowledged the troubling moral of the "boy who cried wolf" but added, "I think you can fairly assume that the experts view this tied in, this information somehow related to Al Qaeda or bin Laden, or else we wouldn't have ramped it up." 
No attacks occurred after the last such general warning, on Oct. 11, but Attorney General John Ashcroft said it was possible that the warning helped to avert any such attacks. And, as Mr. Fleischer noted, it would be impossible to keep a warning to 18,000 state and local law enforcement agencies from the public.
"When it comes to the balance of going on with normal lives and adjusting to a heightened state of security alert, the American people get it," Mr. Fleischer said. "They do understand that it's possible to do both."
"Nobody likes it," he added, "but I've seen nothing that suggests the country doesn't understand it."
The latest New York Times/CBS News poll suggests that public opinion is mixed, with slightly less than half the respondents saying the government was telling people all they need to know about anthrax attacks, and 50 percent saying it was not. 
Public anxiety about possible further terrorist attacks has risen steadily in recent weeks, with 56 percent now saying they regard such attacks as likely, compared with 36 percent in late September. But 71 percent of respondents said they were not very concerned about an attack occurring where they lived; 91 percent said they thought it unnecessary to be tested for anthrax.
And at Yankee Stadium tonight, the normal routines continued as the president threw out the first pitch. But there was also a massive police retinue and a sober new symbol of heightened vigilance: As fans streamed into the House That Ruth Built, they had to pass through metal detectors for the first time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ANTHRAX (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); HALLOWEEN (71%); CAUCUSES (69%); POLICE FORCES (65%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%) PURDUM, TODD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1092 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Edged Insurance Chief Is Taking On a New and Public Face 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Before Sept. 11, insurers thought the risk of a passenger jet causing major damage in a crash into buildings and people on the ground was so remote that they did not even bother to charge extra for the coverage.
 But shortly after the terrorist attacks, they withdrew all but a tiny bit of the insurance. As a result, banks and aircraft leasing companies threatened to ground the airlines unless they were covered. 
 The insurers had lost billions in the attacks, and most were in no mood to take more chances. But Maurice R. Greenberg, the chief executive of the American International Group, saw an opportunity. By charging enough -- he figured $1.85 a passenger would do the trick for about $1 billion in coverage -- not only would his insurance company make a profit, but this would also help keep the airlines flying. 
"We're in the risk business," he said. "I felt a responsibility to come up with a solution. Maybe I'm a genius; maybe I'm just too dumb to see it's too risky to do."
No one has ever accused Mr. Greenberg of being dumb. And while there is certainly risk involved, Mr. Greenberg -- widely known in the industry as Hank -- did not turn A.I.G. into one of the biggest and most aggressive insurers without instinctively calculating his chances of success.
Even as Mr. Greenberg is again jumping into the kind of situation that often intimidates his competitors, he is also leading the industry's charge in Washington for the government to serve as insurer of last resort in any future terror assaults.
"He's always been an insurance figure," said John Oxendine, the chief insurance regulator in Georgia, "but now he's becoming a public figure."
Since the attacks, which are expected to cost A.I.G. about $820 million in payments on claims, Mr. Greenberg has met twice with President Bush and has been commuting to Washington in A.I.G.'s corporate jet to lobby members of Congress with the industry's message. Insurers may have $300 billion in capital, plenty to cover the claims from Sept. 11, he argues, but that huge pot of money could soon be eaten up in a few more terrorist disasters.
His strategy, which has become the industry's as well, has been to emphasize the role insurance plays in underpinning banking, real estate, manufacturing and other vital industries, and arguing that government help for insurers is really help for the economy as a whole.
"Hank has been like the Paul Revere on this," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has known Mr. Greenberg for years. "He came to Washington and said this is a huge problem, a national problem, not just something in the insurance industry."
Events since the attacks have only added to Mr. Greenberg's sense of urgency. Even before A.I.G. could offer its new insurance product for airlines, Congress and many European governments were forced to come up with temporary financial guarantees to keep the airlines flying.
But more than 100 airlines around the world did not receive such assistance, and they became the first customers for Mr. Greenberg's new coverage. By doing so, he gained a leap on his rivals for what promises to be a permanent feature of future airline insurance. Many of the carriers now covered by guarantees are likely to come to him and his coalition of a dozen other insurers when the government measures expire.
At the moment, he is as edgy about the airline coverage as a poker player with a good hand who knows that others still have several cards to show. "You have to look at how this is going to play out over time," he said. "You don't judge the success of a thing like this in the first few weeks."
Some industry executives say Mr. Greenberg had another incentive for developing the airline coverage: A.I.G. owns a big company that leases planes to the airlines. But Mr. Greenberg said his leasing company did not need new coverage. "All but one aircraft we lease was covered by the government programs," he said.
At 76, Mr. Greenberg is almost as trim and feisty as the day in 1944 he charged ashore as a Signal Corps sergeant in the Normandy invasion with a unit of Army Rangers. And in many ways he runs his company like a military operation, with no doubt about who is in charge.
"He's a C.E.O. who knows the big concepts and strategies as well as the details," said Ron Ferguson, the chairman of General Re, one of the world's largest companies that insures other insurance companies. "He's everywhere. He's an absolute workaholic. He has facts and opinions on everything, and they're well founded."
As a boss, he can be brutal. "He can border on being abusive with his language and the way he treats you," said Bob O'Connell, who spent nine years at A.I.G. before becoming chief executive of the Massachusetts Mutual Financial Group. Yet he "can make it eminently clear to you," Mr. O'Connell said, "that he cares about you as a person, about your development, about your family."
"And both sides are genuine," Mr. O'Connell continued. "It's not like he's a tough guy pretending to be nice, or a nice guy pretending to be tough. He's genuinely both."
But when it comes to defending his company against competitors, he is all tough guy. In the long and contentious negotiations leading up to China's acceptance into the World Trade Organization, Mr. Greenberg was tenacious in prodding Washington to defend A.I.G.'s special status in China against efforts by the European Union to open the door wider to European insurers.
He strongly advocated China's W.T.O. membership -- something that could only have further endeared him to the Chinese leaders he has cultivated for decades and who have granted A.I.G., founded in China in 1919, licenses to operate eight insurance units in four cities, far more than any competitor.
Over the years, Mr. Greenberg has been a big contributor to both the Republican and Democratic parties as well as a big fund-raiser for the Republicans. But the key to his access in Washington and in other world capitals is A.I.G.'s financial power. The company commands more than $300 billion in assets, making it the largest American insurer and the ninth-largest American corporation in terms of assets.
While there has never been any doubt about A.I.G.'s financial strength, it is monitored, like all insurers, by regulators and rating agencies to be sure it has sufficient reserves to stand behind any claims.
Mr. Greenberg's business strategy differs from that of most other insurers. Instead of pricing insurance low to reap premiums and then to invest them for profit, Mr. Greenberg strives to profit on both his insurance and his investments.
He has pioneered coverage that protects corporations overseas from expropriation and political violence and that pays ransoms for kidnapped executives, and he has led the way in insurance in cyberspace. Just last week he started a company, with Goldman, Sachs and Chubb as his partners, that permits him to capitalize on sharply rising prices for insurance without loading more risk onto A.I.G.
Along the way, Mr. Greenberg has left a few bruises. "There's no question that some people in the industry resent him a little bit," a competitor said. "There's a little jealousy because he's been more successful. They just find him to be a little bit of a bully."
Mr. Greenberg had hoped to pass on control of A.I.G. to one of two sons. But both have left the company, raising questions about who will run A.I.G. after Mr. Greenberg is gone. (He says he has no plans to retire.)
Mr. Greenberg says he expects his successor to come from within A.I.G. But analysts and others say they do not see a likely candidate. "Hank has made the company so vast and complex that it requires somebody of enormous intellectual diversity with the skill to run a wide multiplicity of businesses," Mr. O'Connell said. "You also want somebody of potentially great recognition in the business and shareholder community. And there is no one yet like that, front and center, in A.I.G."
One reason Mr. Greenberg can sell insurance that others dare not, competitors and analysts say, is that he can calculate risk better than most and makes judgments on the basis of a strict quantitative analysis.
"Because he understands risk so well and doesn't let emotions get in the way," an insurance industry executive said, "he can do things that scare most people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maurice R. Greenberg, head of the American International Group, in New York last week. Mr. Greenberg is pushing hard for Washington to act as insurer of last resort. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); LOBBYING (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); LEASING INDUSTRY (71%); LEGISLATION (65%) INSURANCE; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) GREENBERG, MAURICE R; TREASTER, JOSEPH B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1093 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section S; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Jordan, a Bit Older, Comes Up Short

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
Michael Jordan never made it all the way to the podium in the Madison Square Garden rotunda through the tunnel from the arena late yesterday morning after the Washington Wizards' shoot-around. He pulled up short of the area set up for a news conference, the way he would settle for jump shots last night against the Knicks and, in the final count, come up short. 
 "I go in with no preconceived notions, other than to play hard," he had said, hours before he would sluggishly end his three-year absence from the National Basketball Association in a 93-91 loss to the Knicks. "Whatever happens, happens." 
 Jordan was keeping with the serendipitous script that he followed all summer, working out in private with a handful of scrimmage partners and providing occasional progress reports, like Donald Rumsfeld on C-Span. Right to the final detail -- which, not surprisingly, turned out to be some haggle over video game rights -- Jordan and the N.B.A. contrived the drama, as if the decision hadn't been reached for months. As if the opening night schedule made months in advance was some stroke of fate.
When fate really gets involved, it tends to be devilishly fickle. Late in the fourth quarter, when Jordan has routinely tortured the Knicks, he made a key turnover. On unsteady legs, he missed what would have been a game-tying 3-pointer, hitting the front of the rim on an open look from the right wing.
"I guess the difference is that I'm a little bit older than the last time I shot the basketball," he admitted, referring to his 1998 title-winner in Utah in 1998. "I could never find my rhythm."
He is bigger in the upper body, and technically superior to all those fundamentally challenged players around him. At 38, with a cast of hyperactive wannabes, Jordan is part point guard, part floor coach, while trying to rediscover the role of leading man and legend.
"I'm going to get stronger and stronger as the season goes along," he said, recognizing that 19 points on 7 for 21 from the field was not exactly Kobe-esque, much less what New York City was accustomed to seeing of him on the Broadway stage. Playing in the celebrity-laden Garden again evoked pleasant memories of the old battles with the departed Patrick Ewing, Charles Oakley and John Starks. Then again, as Jordan quickly recognized, "I'm not back here with the same guys I was normally with either."
No Scottie. No Rodman. No Phil Jackson, the former sitting Bull, to whom Jordan once pledged his everlasting loyalty, claiming he would never play for any other coach. That was before Jordan got bored with wearing an executive suit and remembered life was always more fun when he modeled the latest sportswear from Nike.
Eventually, the reports last spring quickly derided as farcical began to make more sense. Jordan needed to prove to himself that he could still soar, as he said yesterday, "at the highest level." His Q score and endorsement interests, suffering the effects of no recently recorded game-winning jumpers, needed a boost. 
Having won more championships (six) than Magic Johnson (five), he has returned as a one-man promotion, to the point where they could just list his team as "Michael" in the Atlantic Division standing. His handsome sweat suit yesterday bore no mention of the Wizards, as was the case when he held his first precamp news conference earlier this month. 
Actually, the young Wizards weren't all that bad last night, making an early fourth-quarter run on their own. Don't kid yourself, though. For Jordan, this comeback is about action and accounting, the two things that have always defined him.
The Wizards, in fact, played their final preseason game last week at a casino in Connecticut. Nobody at a league office that once threatened to withhold expansion into Toronto unless the province of Ontario removed basketball betting from its Pro-Line lottery said a word.
The Associated Press story read, in part, "Combining two of his biggest passions -- basketball and gambling -- Jordan helped christen the 10,000-seat arena at the Mohegan Sun Casino, where he has not one but two restaurants that bear his name." The marketing director for the restaurants, Peter Klein, said, "The fact that he's playing his last preseason game was a great, great coincidence."
Sure it was, as much as last night's date with the Knicks was. The N.B.A. is full of emerging new stars and rising young teams, but what sports enterprise during these troubled economic times can't use a shot of nostalgic, feel-good juice? 
Maybe when the rust is removed, Jordan can again be as improvisational on the court as he is predictable off it and that will be enough to carry the Wizards into contention for a low playoff seeding. Wouldn't it be a twist of that aforementioned fate if he deprived the Knicks of their 15th straight playoff appearance? If Marcus Camby doesn't get healthy soon, it's not out of the question, though even Jordan probably wouldn't bet on it, despite claiming yesterday that he expects the Wizards to finish with a plus .500 record.
Whatever the coming months bring, he certainly will be back on the sideline by late May and June, when it matters most. Even in the N.B.A., even with the Jordan marketing machine, there is only so much you can script. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); THEATER (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%) NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; WASHINGTON WIZARDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (92%) ARATON, HARVEY; JORDAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); UTAH, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (78%)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1094 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 5; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS; 
Nerves Are Steady So Far, and Employers Can Take Some Credit

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
American workers are showing that they are not easily intimidated.
 Terrorist attacks have closed down parts of Washington and New York and caused full-scale alerts at many of the leading news media companies, but around the nation's water coolers, people seem to be taking events in stride. 
 According to a survey by Integra Realty Resources, done after the Sept. 11 attacks, the percentage of employees who were fairly worried about workplace safety was about the same as it was a year ago. 
 In another survey, conducted by the Gallup Organization Oct. 20-21, two-thirds of the respondents expressed little concern about being exposed to anthrax. 
 Part of the credit for such equanimity should go to employers, according to an Oct. 7 survey by the Council of Public Relations Firms. The survey found that about 60 percent of employees said their companies were doing an excellent or good job of communicating with them since Sept. 11. 
 Those numbers are in contrast to a survey conducted by the council in August. Then, with job cuts rising and economic concerns paramount in most people's minds, 54 percent of employees said that companies that had downsized had failed to explain the need for the job cuts or what each company's prospects for survival were. 
 DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: HOW DO YOU RATE YOUR COMPANY'S COMMUNICATION SINCE SEPT.11? Excellent: 30%Good: 29%No answer: 5%Heard nothing: 7%Poor: 10%Fair: 21% HOW WORRIED ARE YOU THAT YOU OR SOMEONE IN YOUR FAMILY WILL BE EXPOSED TO ANTHRAX? Very worried: 7%Somewhat worried: 27%Not worried at all: 31%Not too worried: 35% AS AN EMPLOYEE, WHAT ARE YOU MOST WORRIED ABOUT? Being laid off: 20%Security at work: 16%Company's future11% EMPLOYEES WHO ARE "SOMEWHAT FEARFUL" ABOUT WORKPLACE SAFETY October 2000: 12%Sept. 20-23, 2001: 13% (Sources: Council of Public Relations Firms; the Gallup Organization; Integra Realty Resources)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); ANTHRAX (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); INTEGRA REALTY RESOURCES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1095 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: To Close the Saudi Tap 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Drilling for Tolerance," by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Oct. 30): 
 Mr. Friedman argues persuasively for energy conservation and the need to reduce our dependence on Saudi Arabia for energy supplies. 
 There is a simple and effective way to conserve: begin immediately to tax gasoline at rates comparable to the high rates levied by European governments. This will undoubtedly cause much initial economic pain, but that pain will be nothing like what we will endure if we continue to ignore the role Saudi Arabia has played in fostering the growth of Osama bin Laden and his movement, Al Qaeda.

RICHARD L. RUBENSTEIN
Fairfield, Conn., Oct. 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TERRORISM; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) RUBENSTEIN, RICHARD L; FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) SAUDI ARABIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1096 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Bush Advisers Say Congress Must Act Now on Economy 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 

 BODY:
The Bush administration warned today that failure by Congress to pass an economic recovery package would endanger the prospects for a rebound next year, but it offered no compromises to break a partisan deadlock on Capitol Hill.
 In an interview, President Bush's top economic policy advisers said they remained optimistic about reaching a deal based on the administration's proposal for a new round of tax cuts. 
 The advisers said, however, that the consequences for the economy would be serious if the Senate could not bridge the gap between Democratic proposals that focus on helping the unemployed and lower-income workers and Republican plans, like one that passed the House last week calling for extensive tax breaks to businesses.
After an initial burst of bipartisanship following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the two sides have been drifting farther apart for several weeks, even as the economy has continued to deteriorate. 
Members of both parties said there was now a chance that Congress would be unable to agree on an economic package before adjourning, probably around Christmas. Most economists are forecasting that the economy will bounce back by the middle of next year, assuming that Congress and the administration will pass some combination of tax cuts and spending increases to augment the Federal Reserve's continuing campaign of interest rate cuts.
"We are playing with fire if we don't pass a reasonable stimulus," said R. Glenn Hubbard, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.
Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, noted that the stock market had risen by more than 400 points since the president proposed a stimulus package of up to $75 billion for the current year. If the expectation built into stock prices and economic forecasts for passage of the stimulus plan is removed, Mr. Lindsey said, "I think there is a significant risk to the economy."
Democrats said that if Mr. Bush was serious about getting a bill passed this year, he would have to be more active in brokering a compromise.
The president "has to step up as well and spend the appropriate time and send the appropriate signals," said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. "Otherwise I fear that those who shout the loudest, who tend to be the most partisan, are going to make this into a partisan exchange."
Mr. Hubbard and Mr. Lindsey, along with Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director, set out the administration's views on a variety of economic matters in an interview with a small group of reporters. 
They said they were skeptical about the approach emerging in Congress for dealing with the reluctance of insurers to provide coverage against terrorist attacks. 
Under a bipartisan proposal being discussed in the Senate, the government would not step in to help until the insurance industry has paid as much as $10 billion in claims for any terrorist attacks next year. The administration has proposed paying at least 80 percent of any claims from the first dollar next year.
Mr. O'Neill said the $10 billion figure, should it become law, might well lead insurers to set premiums so high that companies would be unable or unwilling to pay, forcing Congress and the administration to revisit the legislation to keep the economy operating.
"If it doesn't work, we're going to have to do something else," Mr. O'Neill said. "Our economy cannot be committed to go into the tank because we failed to provide a risk insurance process that works."
Asked about the budget outlook for next year, Mr. Daniels suggested that the administration was likely to seek savings in many areas to pay for the war against terrorism. 
"The starting point is to err on the side of action with regard to the true emergencies we face," he said. "Everything else will be scrutinized even more carefully than before."
Administration officials played down the partisan eruptions over the economic stimulus package, but on Capitol Hill tensions only intensified.
Senator Charles B. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, unveiled a proposal that would accelerate all the income tax rate reductions in the tax-cut bill Mr. Bush signed earlier this year, give companies a tax break for investing in new equipment, repeal the corporate alternative minimum tax and provide one-time cash payments to people who did not earn enough money to qualify for this summer's tax rebates.
Mr. Grassley said the tax cuts in his package would total $89 billion this year, well above the $60 billion to $75 billion Mr. Bush has proposed.
Democrats immediately criticized Mr. Grassley's proposal as no better than a Republican plan the House narrowly passed last week. Democrats said any bill they bring up in the Senate would have to address the needs of unemployed workers by expanding the unemployment insurance program and offering laid-off workers substantial help in paying health-insurance premiums -- provisions Republicans have resisted.
"We will not even consider a bill unless it has those components," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRORISM (74%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); INSURANCE (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; HUBBARD, R GLENN; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); DANIELS, MITCHELL E JR (BUDGET DIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 



1097 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Where Donald Trump sees trouble in Atlantic City, bondholders see an effort to cut a deal.

BYLINE:  By Riva D. Atlas 

 BODY:
WITH the outlook gloomy for his Atlantic City casinos, Donald Trump said yesterday that he might not make about $90 million in interest payments due next month on his bonds.
 He has enough cash, he said, but may try to negotiate with bondholders to reduce the amount owed because his casinos are loaded with debt and confronting increased competition in a weak economy. 
 At least some bondholders contacted yesterday said they did not take Mr. Trump's threats seriously. In fact, they are wondering whether Mr. Trump could be trying to take advantage of a decline in bond prices to cut a favorable deal for himself. 
The prospects for Mr. Trump's properties, and all Atlantic City casinos, grew dimmer last week, after New York passed legislation to allow gambling in the state, a decision partly intended to increase revenue as the economy softens.
Mr. Trump warned that New York casinos could divert business from Atlantic City and have a negative effect on his three casinos: the Trump Marina, the Trump Plaza and the Trump Taj Mahal.
"The world has changed greatly since Sept. 11," Mr. Trump said in an interview yesterday. "At some point in the near future I am going to go talk with bondholders." 
Mr. Trump has more than $1.6 billion in publicly traded junk bonds, most of which are secured by his Atlantic City casinos. He controls these properties through a public entity called Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, whose shares trade at $1.25. Mr. Trump owns roughly 42 percent of this company.
Mr. Trump was already facing additional competition in Atlantic City from a casino called the Borgata, scheduled to open in 2003. The property is a joint venture of MGM Mirage and Boyd Gaming. 
Mr. Trump owes about $73 million in interest payments tomorrow on $1.3 billion in bonds issued by an entity called Trump Atlantic City, secured by the Taj Mahal and Plaza casinos, and about $15 million more in payments due on $242 million in bonds issued by Trump Castle Associates, which are backed by the Trump Marina casino. These bonds mature in November 2003.
Mr. Trump said he had not yet decided whether to pay bondholders, even though he emphasized his ability to do so. "The question is do I want to wait until 2003," he said, "or deal with this now?" 
The price of the Atlantic City and Castle bonds have fallen sharply since early September, according to John Kempf, a high-yield bond analyst at Goldman, Sachs.
The Trump Atlantic City bonds have fallen to about 60 percent of their face value from about 70 percent, while the Castle bonds trade at 74 cents on the dollar from the mid-80's.
Mr. Trump's New York City real estate interests are not publicly held and are not affiliated with the casino entities. The property portfolio is in relatively good shape, Mr. Trump said. "I've sold out or rented out everything," he said. He is proceeding with The Chicago Sun-Times on a project announced in July to build an office tower in Chicago. 
According to reports at the time, Mr. Trump intended for the Chicago tower to be the world's tallest building. Mr. Trump denied making that claim. Still, he said, it would "be a somewhat different project had Sept. 11 not taken place." 
Some investors think Mr. Trump would be wise not to pay the money he owes bondholders next month, and instead spend the money fixing up his properties before new casinos open in New York and Atlantic City. "He'd be stupid to pay this next coupon," said one investor who recently bought some of Trump's bonds. "It would be in his best interest not to."
Still, by failing to pay interest on his debt, Mr. Trump runs the risk of losing control of his properties. Often, in a bankruptcy process, stockholders receive nothing unless the debt is paid off in full.
But when his three casinos went bankrupt in the early 1990's, Mr. Trump managed to maintain a controlling interest in the properties because he convinced bondholders that the properties would be worth less without his involvement. Also, if owners of Trump's bonds tried to take control of his casinos, they might have difficulty obtaining a license to operate the properties.
Still, one investor who also owned Trump bonds a decade ago, said he would try for a tougher bargain with Mr. Trump this time around. "I don't think we'll let him pull his pockets inside out like he did in the early 1990's," the investor said. "Once bitten, twice shy." 
When told of the comment, Mr. Trump threatened to drag out the negotiations with bondholders, if need be. "The bondholders don't want to go through a five-year restructuring and then end up with nothing," he said.
Some investors say Mr. Trump may not want to take the chance of losing control. "I would be shocked if he can make that payment but doesn't," said one investment banker who has worked with Mr. Trump. "He is a brinksman; 2003 for him is a lifetime away."
Some investors and analysts suggest Mr. Trump could merely be trying to drive down the price of his bonds. Mr. Trump quietly spent $46 million last spring buying bonds issued by Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, said Mr. Kempf of Goldman, Sachs.
"I like my properties, and I have a lot of cash," Mr. Trump said in response. "But do I want to invest in Atlantic City right now?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Trump said his three Atlantic City casinos were loaded with debt and confronting increased competition in a weak economy. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); RESORTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LEGISLATION (54%) GAMBLING; INTEREST RATES; CASINOS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (83%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BOYD GAMING CORP (53%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (65%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BYD (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (95%) ATLAS, RIVA D; TRUMP, DONALD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001 

 
