

601 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1971 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, the Stakes Are High for Disney's Film and TV Businesses 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN and GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
On the deck of the aircraft carrier John C. Stennis, anchored off Oahu and within sight of the solemn memorial for those who lost their lives on Dec. 7, 1941, the Walt Disney Company will unveil the $135 million movie "Pearl Harbor" tonight, a special-effects-filled wartime love story. Unless the prerelease tracking data have gone horribly haywire, the film will become a monster hit when it opens in theaters all over America this Friday.
 If so, a box-office success will come at an opportune time for the venerable studio. 
 In the nearly year and a half since Joe Roth stepped down as head of Walt Disney Studios and was replaced by Peter Schneider, former president of the animation division, the studio has seemed to many to be in a receding mood -- producing fewer movies, generating less impact and battling internal problems caused by corporate downsizing and the widespread impression that its core animation division has lost some of its creative fire.
So the release of a huge project like "Pearl Harbor," with all of its attendant hoopla and high expectations, coming just weeks before the release of the newest Disney animated feature, "Atlantis: The Lost Empire," a project that has thus far generated significantly less hoopla, inevitably raises questions about where Disney's movie division is headed and what it means to the health of the corporation. 
The answer, say Mr. Schneider and his boss, Michael D. Eisner, the Disney chairman, is that the studio is becoming more serious about cost controls, basing its budgets on unemotional, clear-eyed assessments of how well a movie is likely to do at the box office.
"We had too many people making too many movies and not having enough financial discipline in the movie business," Mr. Eisner said. "Peter has brought back a discipline that was necessary to be successful. Essentially, we have gone back to a strategy that Barry Diller and Charlie Bludhorn and I figured out 25 years ago at Paramount Pictures: that you can make exciting movies and still have economic discipline."
Scott Davis, who follows media for First Union Securities, said the film division might account for only 15 percent of Disney's operating income, but "it has a much greater mind share."
"It is disproportionately important, because that is where investors measure just how successfully the creative juices at Disney are flowing," Mr. Davis said. "And hit movies generate ideas for theme park rides and consumer products that boost the performance of other Disney divisions."
And the profitability of the movie division has become more important in light of recent stumbles by Disney's ABC television network, whose advertising revenue has softened.
Several people -- from executives to lower-level workers -- who have left Disney in recent years, and some who are still there, describe it as suffering its share of morale problems. The studio, whose legacy includes such groundbreaking family films as "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" and "The Lion King," has become almost as famous in recent years for the people who have left it. An argument can be made that two of Hollywood's most prolific mini-studios, DreamWorks and Revolution, would not exist were it not for the top executives who left Disney to form them -- Jeffrey Katzenberg at DreamWorks and Mr. Roth at Revolution.
In addition, the company recently announced that it would cut 4,000 jobs from a companywide total of about 120,000. A hefty portion of the 4,000 will leave through a buyout program, but the rest will be laid off, Mr. Schneider said.
At the same time, Disney's animation division has undertaken its own economy drive. An industry surge in animation about five years ago effectively drove up salaries for top animators, but a recent animation downturn has now left them vulnerable and allowed many companies, including Disney, to cut salaries drastically.
"It's a very difficult area to talk about," Mr. Schneider said. Some animators, who had been making about $70,000 five years ago, saw their salaries soar to as much as $300,000 during the competitive years, but are now being asked to take a 35 to 50 percent pay cut, or leave.
"I'm not saying it's pleasant or easy, but that's what's happening," Mr. Schneider said. "That's just life, isn't it?"
Although the benefits of this current and future cost saving have yet to be felt, Disney's movie division is already showing a firmer footing. For the quarter ended March 31, the division showed operating profits up 257 percent, to $164 million, in part because of the video releases of "Lady and the Tramp II" and "Remember the Titans."
Disney, which will release about 14 films this year -- two-thirds the number the company has typically put out in recent years -- is not the only studio putting out fewer movies. If that means that Disney, which has been a market-share leader in the movie business for several years, will no longer hold that title, Mr. Schneider said, so be it. 
"I'm not sure it's a Michael strategy or a my strategy or no strategy," Mr. Schneider said. "But I want to make movies that have a broad appeal where you don't have to spend a lot of money making them. That is the battle that I fight every day."
(Although "Pearl Harbor," at $135 million, was more expensive than the industry average of $60 million, it is nowhere the cost of such extravaganzas as the Fox-Paramount film "Titanic," whose production cost approached $200 million.)
There have been other changes, too. Mr. Schneider said the studio, under him, would be much less eager to make violent R-rated films. That was the reason, he said, that Disney took a pass on Jerry Bruckheimer's adaptation of "Black Hawk Down," the story of American soldiers in Somalia, despite its first-look deal with the producer. The project went to Mr. Roth's Revolution.
Without question, Mr. Schneider said, the studio has fewer production agreements than in the past, when there were as many as 35 producers, directors and actors with their own Disney deals. Now, he said, only three producers have such deals -- Mr. Bruckheimer, Tom Jacobson and Gary Barber and Roger Birnbaum of Spyglass Films -- and all of them were made under the previous regime.
But Disney still has two creative partnerships that have proved to be quite successful. It owns Miramax Films, which has had a very successful run of late. And Disney's distribution agreement with Pixar, the computer animation company, has provided a string of megahits beginning with "Toy Story" and continuing this Thanksgiving with the eagerly anticipated "Monsters Inc."
Mr. Schneider came to his role as studio chief as a relative unknown among Hollywood movers and shakers, largely because he had risen in the cloistered world of animation. He has also taken criticism for failing to forge any new production deals and for seeming to shy away from making films with A-list actors. 
Both impressions will be proved to be wrong shortly, he said. Some new deals are in the final stages of negotiation and will be announced soon, and it is entirely likely that Mel Gibson, as A-list as actors can be, will star for Disney in the new thriller from director M. Night Shyamalan. 
In a way, Mr. Eisner said, it is strange to be talking about this resurgent cost-cutting philosophy at a time when the studio is preparing to release an expensive blockbuster like "Pearl Harbor," which seems like an anomaly among the smaller, cheaper films that make up the bulk of the Disney slate.
In fact, that is deceptive, Mr. Eisner said. "Pearl Harbor" cost $135 million, but it is a 2-hour-and-52-minute extravaganza in which all of that money is up on the screen. " 'Pearl Harbor,' for what it was, was done very efficiently," Mr. Eisner said. Indeed, the film's principals -- Mr. Bruckheimer, the director Michael Bay and the star Ben Affleck -- agreed to reduced salaries in return for profit participation, should the movie succeed. 
To persuade Disney to back the film, Mr. Bruckheimer and Mr. Bay had to promise that any cost overruns -- beyond a $5 million cushion -- would come out of their own pockets.
"They have not had to reach into their pockets," Mr. Schneider said. 
Mr. Bruckheimer, who worked with Mr. Eisner at both Paramount and Disney, said that he, too, sensed echoes between the current Disney strategy and the way Paramount worked in the late 1970's.
"Michael has always run the studio," Mr. Bruckheimer said. "He's always had this philosophy on how he runs his businesses. He's a very smart businessman and he likes to be on the cutting edge of trying to make as much profit for his company as possible, and he'll squeeze every nickel out of everything."
In the case of "Pearl Harbor," Mr. Eisner's strategy appears to be working. The early tracking numbers are phenomenally high. Awareness among prospective ticket buyers is at 92 percent, definite interest is 70 percent and 39 percent list it as their first choice among coming movies. 
This indicates that moviegoers of all ages know about the movie, that they are interested in seeing it and that, most likely, millions of them will rush out to catch it this weekend -- especially because the other Hollywood studios have ceded the Memorial Day weekend to Disney, letting "Pearl Harbor" open unchallenged.
The average marketing and distribution budget for a film is about $50 million, although it can be more for major blockbusters. Mr. Schneider said that the marketing budget for "Pearl Harbor" was generous but well in line with other major Disney releases and not as large as some previous campaigns mounted by Disney and other studios. 
Even the moment when those who deferred their payments will start earning a share of the profits will come sooner than many might expect for a movie that was so expensive to make, Mr. Schneider said. "I am going to breathe a sigh of relief when this movie hits $100 million at the box office," he said. "After that, we are in really good shape."
The same rosy glow does not spread, however, to Disney's coming animated film "Atlantis." When it was previewed for theater owners at their annual convention in Las Vegas in January, the reaction was decidedly mixed. Many felt that the film compared unfavorably with "Shrek," a computer-animated family film that was released last week by the rival DreamWorks.
And "Atlantis" is unlike all the other recent Disney animated efforts. It is a pure action-adventure, for instance, and contains no songs or cute animal sidekicks.
Mr. Schneider rejected recent criticisms that the company's animation division had lost its creative spark. He also predicted that, despite the naysayers, "Atlantis" would do quite well with audiences. "We have already said yes to an animated television series based on it," he said.
Besides, Disney executives maintain that they have made it easier for their animated features to break even by a cost-cutting campaign that made "Atlantis," which cost $100 million, about 35 percent cheaper to produce than the studio's other recent animated efforts.
Making and releasing feature films is only part of what Walt Disney Studios does. There is also television animation, a stage-play and music business and a recently reinvigorated direct-to-video business that has had successes with low-cost sequels to Disney animated classics like the recent "Lady and the Tramp II." More than most studios, Disney has an enormous reservoir of time-tested classics that it can parcel out in DVD and other formats in coming years to keep the money flowing in.
"If you look at the last six months, our profits for all of these components of the studio was $300 million; that's up from zero the year before," Mr. Schneider said. "The goal we have is great artistic product and to make some money. I think you're seeing that, and I am bullish that it will continue to grow for the next six months."

GRAPHIC: Photos: This $135 million Disney movie, opening Friday, is expected to be a huge hit. (Rob Schoenbaum for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The coming feature "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" is an action-adventure. (Disney Enterprises)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); ANIMATED FILMS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); TICKET SALES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (50%); D SCOTT DAVIS (50%) LYMAN, RICK; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; SCHNEIDER, PETER; EISNER, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: PEARL HARBOR (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2001 



602 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Alcatel's Global Evolution To North America and Lucent 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 20 

 BODY:
If Serge Tchuruk, the ebullient chairman and chief executive of the French electronics giant Alcatel, succeeds in bringing aboard Lucent Technologies, it will be the latest step in his transformation of a cumbersome conglomerate -- whose main business used to be supplying telephones to the French national phone monopoly -- into a global competitor in telecommunications equipment.
 Lucent and Alcatel have held preliminary talks about a combination that would, in effect, be an acquisition by Alcatel. The Lucent board is expected to meet this week to consider whether to enter formal negotiations with the French company. 
 Mr. Tchuruk's previous big step was the acquisition last year of Newbridge Networks of Canada in a $7 billion stock swap that gave Alcatel a stronger line of products to compete in North America with the likes of Cisco Systems, Nortel Networks and Lucent itself. 
Two years earlier, Mr. Tchuruk (pronounced CHOO-rook) engineered the takeover of DSC Communications of Dallas, a midsize telecommunications equipment maker. The reasoning was similar, and simple: as the deregulation of telecommunications leaped the Atlantic to Europe in the late 90's, European companies like Alcatel thought that if they could make it in the United States, where deregulation had been invented, they could make it in Europe, too. 
In 1998, although Alcatel was selling $14 billion of telecommunications gear worldwide, only $1.5 billion, a little more than 10 percent, was in the United States. By last year, to Mr. Tchuruk's satisfaction, Alcatel's sales in the United States contributed 22 percent of Alcatel's $27 billion in revenue.
So lately, Alcatel and Mr. Tchuruk have been trying to get Americans to know just who they are and what they are up to, with an ad campaign that uses historical images from Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech and Lou Gehrig's farewell at Yankee Stadium. Computer animation makes it appear that Dr. King was speaking to an empty Washington Mall and Gehrig to an empty stadium -- until some references to communications are made, after which the mall is filled with a million people and Yankee Stadium is packed to the rafters. 
Whatever the ads' taste, they reflect Alcatel's seriousness about North America, and perhaps also its challenges.
In part, Alcatel's move is the latest in a French invasion of North America, as French corporations that successfully reorganized in the 1990's flex their financial muscles overseas. Most notable in the French expansion was the $41 billion acquisition by Vivendi of Seagram and its Universal entertainment businesses.
For Alcatel, the negotiations to acquire Lucent grew out of discussions about the possible sale of Lucent's fiber optic cable business, which Lucent hoped to sell for more than $5 billion to help reduce its debt.
Yet the decision to seek of Lucent -- a deal that could be worth $34 billion or more -- complicates Mr. Tchuruk's life at a time when business conditions are already strained. Indeed, so critical was the reaction from investors to news of Alcatel's talks with Lucent that executives of both companies were said to be re-evaluating the terms of the offer with an eye toward reducing the price Alcatel might pay.
On Friday, shares in Alcatel, which had fallen more than 60 percent since last September, dropped 2.6 euros further on the news, closing here at 33.40 euros, or $29.37. And the company's corporate bond yields widened on worries that a deal with Lucent could prompt a reduction in its credit rating.
Earlier in the week, Standard & Poor's had placed Alcatel's debt on review for possible downgrading, a step partly reflecting the risks in its current North American business. On Wednesday, Alcatel's shares fell after Alcatel reported that a major North American client, 360networks of Vancouver, had canceled $1 billion worth of equipment supply contracts for a planned fiber optic network spanning the Pacific. 
Moody's, too, had given Alcatel a negative outlook. S.& P., in announcing its review, said Alcatel's credit rating would be further strained even if it succeeded in acquiring only Lucent's fiber optic cable unit.
All this happened as the business climate was not improving. Late last month, Alcatel scaled back its profit outlook for the current year, and announced cost reductions that included the outsourcing of production of mobile phone handsets, a recognition of slower growth in demand.
Not surprisingly, some were comparing a marriage of Alcatel and Lucent with that of Daimler and Chrysler. If the merger followed that pattern, it would not only tax management's ability to meld European and American corporate cultures but could also lead to the destruction of shareholder value, and of jobs eliminated in overlapping businesses.
Lucent's stock price has been hammered in recent months amid falling demand for its products. Its shares closed on Friday in New York at $9.95, up 14 cents.
Mr. Tchuruk is no stranger to melding such diverse cultures or to handling big mergers.
He was born in 1937 as Serge Tchurukdichian in Marseille, where his Armenian grandparents had settled after fleeing the violence against Armenians in their native Turkey after World War I. In 1991, Mr. Tchuruk shortened the family name. 
Mr. Tchuruk took the top job at Alcatel in 1995 after heading European blue chips like Rhone-Poulenc, now part of Aventis, and Total, the French oil group he helped merge with French and Belgian rivals to form TotalFinaElf. His international training came while working for 15 years in the 60's and 70's for Mobil in the United States and Europe.
At Alcatel, then known as Alcatel Alsthom, Mr. Tchuruk inherited a bloated bureaucracy with industrial interests ranging from shipbuilding to railway rolling stock to power stations. In 1995, the company reported losses of $5.4 billion before cutting 10,000-plus jobs, discarding noncore assets including vineyards and two weekly news magazines, but also the heavy equipment maker Alsthom. Alcatel returned to profitability in the following years.
From the start, Mr. Tchuruk made clear that North America had high priority as the cradle of telecommunications innovation. In optical fiber networks, for instance, Alcatel still limps behind Nortel Networks and Lucent, and a combination of Alcatel and Lucent would produce a formidable competitor for Nortel.
And while the acquisition of Newbridge gave Alcatel a strong footing in Canada, Lucent would establish its customer base in the United States, the world's biggest telecommunications market.
In wireless communications, a source of future growth with Web-enabled mobile phones, a combination of Lucent and Alcatel would create the strongest competitor in North America.
In recent months, Mr. Tchuruk has repeatedly spoken of a coming consolidation among telecommunications companies because of the economic slowdown and the huge debt burden weighing on the major companies, particularly in Europe. That slowdown, he suggests, points to a need for reorganization to adjust supply to demand.
Yet Mr. Tchuruk -- an orderly man who finds consolation in Bach concertos -- is no stranger to disappointment. A weapons engineer by training, his chances of a career in the French arms industry ended in 1960, when he married his wife, Helena, whose family were refugees from Poland and in the atmosphere of the cold war considered a security risk. 
After spending two years in the French Army in Algeria, Mr. Tchuruk joined Mobil, and his long climb up the corporate ladder began.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking an American imprint, an Alcatel ad uses images from Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech, with computer animation first making it seem Dr. King spoke to an empty Washington Mall. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (85%); DEREGULATION (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (62%); ANIMATION (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (94%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); VIVENDI (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALCATEL SA; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (94%); ALU (NYSE) (94%); ALU (BIT) (94%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); VIV (PAR) (51%); VIV (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (87%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; TCHURUK, SERGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2001 



603 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Now Need Well-Honed Skills In Job Hunting 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD MARKEL 

 BODY:
When Dr. Albert Tzeel left San Francisco for his first real job in an established Phoenix pediatrics practice in 1990, he expected that move to frame his life and career for decades to come.
 In the last several months of his residency at the University of California, Dr. Tzeel had taken on moonlighting work to earn the down payment for a house. He and his wife decided to start a family, and they encouraged their parents, who were retired in Michigan, to move to Arizona for the warm and sunny climate. 
 But things did not work out as he had hoped, and in less than a year he was searching for a new job. Since leaving Arizona, Dr. Tzeel has had four different professional positions. He is hardly unique. With more and more doctors working in managed care settings, job turnover is at an all-time high. Medical journals are filled with advertisements of new employment opportunities, and every day physicians across the nation receive queries from medical headhunters.
Dr. Howard Kirz, a retired physician and consultant who helps disgruntled doctors find new positions, notes that in the decades before managed care relatively few doctors ever changed jobs once establishing a foothold. "Prior to 1990, about 1 to 2 percent of all practicing physicians changed jobs during a 20-year work career," he said.
But since the early 1990's, a number of studies have documented that more than 10 percent of the physician work force changes jobs annually.
The nomadic career path of today's physicians is caused in part by professional dissatisfaction, unwelcome intrusions on how they can practice medicine and diminishing job security that has long been a fact of life for most working Americans but has only recently become one for doctors.
Dr. Sharon Buchbinder, an associate professor of health sciences at Towson State University in Maryland, said: "Older doctors are riding out these changes and waiting to retire. Middle-aged physicians are angry that the rules have changed so markedly in midstream, and a number of them are leaving medicine entirely. But it's the younger doctors who are on the move."
The average physician who has begun practice since 1990 is likely to have had three or four jobs by 2000, Dr. Buchbinder noted.
Physician turnover costs the health care industry untold hundreds of millions of dollars per year and has the potential to harm patients. The recruitment and replacement costs for primary care physicians average about $250,000 per doctor. It is even more expensive to recruit subspecialists or doctors to practice in rural regions and impoverished urban areas.
Financial losses are also incurred when patients do not re-enroll in health maintenance organizations with high physician turnover rates. Problems also occur when primary care doctors take other jobs and leave behind patients who have grown to depend upon them.
"Physician turnover threatens health care quality because it deprives patients of consistent caregivers who know them well and will serve as their advocates," said Dr. John M. Eisenberg, director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality at the Department of Health and Human Services. "Research shows that patients who have a usual source are more likely to receive adequate preventive care and other health care services."
Dr. Eisenberg also notes that patients with established and trusting relationships with their doctors are more likely to comply with complex medical and healthy lifestyle regimens.
Although Dr. Tzeel began his career in private practice, economic pressures pushed him toward jobs at two different H.M.O.'s. He soon grew dissatisfied with his role as a primary care physician in a large corporation and went back to graduate school to gain credentials as a physician-manager. He has since been a medical director for the Health Alliance Plan of Michigan and is now in a similar position at Humana of Milwaukee.
Dr. Tzeel admits to being naive as a medical student.
"I had no concept of the intricacies involved with the business of medicine," he said. "When I began private practice, I thought all I had to do was practice excellent medicine and keep my patients happy. In the employed setting, I not only had to keep my patients happy, I also had to see them quickly and in a cost-efficient manner.
"As I shifted into a management role, there was a different type of accountability in how each practice and the entire health network of clinics functioned. Each position has had its own unique rewards, stresses and drawbacks."
Dr. Andrew Metinko, an intensive care specialist, has had an equally peripatetic professional journey. Initially an instructor at the University of Michigan, he ventured east for an assistant professorship at the Yale medical school.
Frustrated by the academic world and tempted by an opportunity to run his own intensive care unit, Dr. Metinko left Yale after two years to become director of pediatric intensive care at the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit, the flagship of a large Midwest H.M.O.
He soon became disenchanted with the bureaucracy he encountered there and the lack of autonomy and resources he felt were essential to practicing quality medicine.
After a series of physician layoffs at the hospital, he looked for another job and ended up at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. More recently, he began taking classes on the business of medicine.
"I realized that I needed to become facile in the language of health service management as well as its broader context to understand hospital operations, administrative decision-making and, hopefully, to help influence institutional and regional health care policies I must work under," Dr. Metinko said.
Now, added Dr. Howard Horowitz, vice president of the American College of Physician Executives, many doctors are beginning to understand that jobs are not permanent, and they must prepare for that. 
"As I see it today, the business of medicine is first a business," Dr. Horowitz said. "Today's health care industry is framed around powerful forces such as corporate integration, cost cutting, mergers and acquisitions, and attempts to reduce the number of health care providers at less successful managed care organizations. As good as a clinician a particular doctor may be, sometimes the circumstances of the marketplace gang up on him."
Dr. Eisenberg said physicians were not simply frustrated with the industry changing around them.
"Frustrations with practice have always existed, and managed care is just a new wrinkle in an old problem," he said. "One of the signs of success in the business world is changing a job every two years. Part of the job turnover phenomenon in medicine today may be ascribed not only to job dissatisfaction but also the phenomenon of being a successful employee."
Dr. Buchbinder disagrees with this assessment. "Most doctors who move from job to job are looking for a better fit," she said. "Salaries and job titles are only a part of the mix. Far more important factors include whether these doctors feel respected by management, the quality of care delivered by that H.M.O. and what type of corporate or financial constraints are imposed on their practice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Albert Tzeel, left, now of Milwaukee, has had four jobs since leaving his first medical practice. Dr. Andrew Metinko, now in Seattle, has held positions at several hospitals. (Erol Reyal for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); PEDIATRICS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FAMILY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); BUDGETS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

PERSON: MARKEL, HOWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



604 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: For Users Of Heroin, Decades Of Despair 

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
"Before you know it, life just passed you up," the man said. "You lose everything. You lose your wife, you lose your family, you lose your friends."
 "But after seeing you go back and forth to jail over 10, 15, 20 years," he added, "they just give up on you." 
 He was speaking of his personal war with heroin addiction, a demon he had battled for decades. And like the aging addicts described in a study appearing this month in The Archives of General Psychiatry, the man, in late middle-age, was intimately familiar with the addiction's physical and social costs.
The study, begun in the mid-1970's by researchers at the University of California at Los Angeles, followed male heroin addicts admitted to a court-ordered drug treatment program in California in the early 1960's. The men were interviewed in 1974 and 1975 and again in the mid-1980's. The report presented the findings of a 33-year follow-up, carried out in 1996 and 1997.
Of the 581 men in the original study, the researchers found, 284 had died, 21.6 percent from drug overdoses or from poisonings by adulterants added to the drug. Another 38.6 percent died from cancer or from heart or liver disease. Three died of AIDS. Homicides, suicides or accidents killed 55 of them.
Yet as disturbing as these numbers were -- the death rates were higher, by several orders of magnitude than those for the general population -- the struggles of the men who were still living were equally troubling.
For example, of the 242 subjects interviewed in the 33-year follow-up, at the time in their late 40's to mid-60's, 40.5 percent reported using heroin within the last year and 20.7 percent tested positive for the drug in the urinalysis required for the study. Abuse of other illicit drugs was also frequent (19.4 percent had used cocaine in the last year; 35.5 percent had used marijuana), as was the use of nicotine and alcohol.
"The striking thing for me is that a good proportion of this group continues using," said Dr. Yih-Ing Hser, an adjunct professor at U.C.L.A.'s Neuropsychiatric Institute and the lead author of the study.
"Ordinarily," she said, "you'd think that when people are reaching old age that they cannot continue to do the things they used to, like hustling for drugs. But that didn't happen."
Among the men in the study who still used drugs, health problems, unemployment, criminal involvement, social isolation and broken family relationships were common, as they were for a similar group of addicted men who took part in focus groups organized by the researchers.
"Some men in the study did manage to attain abstinence, and the difference was striking when they came into the interview," said Dr. Christine Grella, also an adjunct professor at the neuropsychiatric institute and an author of the study.
"They were well-functioning and they looked good," Dr. Grella said. "Those who continued to use didn't look good, and they had many physical problems that were hard for them."
The study, financed in part by the National Institute on Drug Abuse, found that even the men who achieved periods of abstinence were still vulnerable to relapse. Those who had abstained for at least five years were less likely to relapse, but even in this group, 25 percent resumed heroin use, some after 15 years of abstinence. And among those abstinent for more than five years, many abused alcohol or other drugs.
The findings, the researchers said, make it clear that surmounting heroin addiction can be a long and circuitous process, and that treatment programs need to take this into account.
"Most people think that those who go to treatment will be immediately cured," she said, but "heroin is a difficult drug to kick, and therefore treatment and recovery has to take incremental steps."
Results from the 20-year follow-up, the researchers said, showed that methadone maintenance therapy helped the men refrain from heroin use. But only 10 percent of the subjects were enrolled in methadone maintenance in any given year.
Many researchers believe that methadone maintenance therapy is an essential component of treatment but say that, for a variety of reasons, it is often not readily available to addicts. Many programs, for example, discontinue treatment if a client fails a drug test or cannot meet the fee, Dr. Hser said.
"That kind of barrier to treatment, is partly responsible for the outcome we are seeing," she said.
While several national studies have followed addicts over a period of years, the U.C.L.A. study is the first to track them over three decades. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEROIN (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); HOMICIDE (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); DRUG TESTING (76%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); CANCER (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (71%); POISONINGS (71%); COCAINE (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); SUICIDE (65%); LIVER DISEASE (65%); CANNABIS (61%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HEROIN; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) ARCHIVES OF GENERAL PSYCHIATRY; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



605 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3132 words

HEADLINE: Before the Big Bang, There Was . . . What? 

BYLINE:  By DENNIS OVERBYE 

 BODY:
What was God doing before he created the world? The philosopher and writer (and later saint) Augustine posed the question in his "Confessions" in the fourth century, and then came up with a strikingly modern answer: before God created the world there was no time and thus no "before." To paraphrase Gertrude Stein, there was no "then" then.
 Until recently no one could attend a lecture on astronomy and ask the modern version of Augustine's question -- what happened before the Big Bang? -- without receiving the same frustrating answer, courtesy of Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity, which describes how matter and energy bend space and time. 
 If we imagine the universe shrinking backward, like a film in reverse, the density of matter and energy rises toward infinity as we approach the moment of origin. Smoke pours from the computer, and space and time themselves dissolve into a quantum "foam." "Our rulers and our clocks break," explained Dr. Andrei Linde, a cosmologist at Stanford University. "To ask what is before this moment is a self-contradiction." 
But lately, emboldened by progress in new theories that seek to unite Einstein's lordly realm with the unruly quantum rules that govern subatomic physics -- so-called quantum gravity -- Dr. Linde and his colleagues have begun to edge their speculations closer and closer to the ultimate moment and, in some cases, beyond it. 
Some theorists suggest that the Big Bang was not so much a birth as a transition, a "quantum leap" from some formless era of imaginary time, or from nothing at all. Still others are exploring models in which cosmic history begins with a collision with a universe from another dimension.
All this theorizing has received a further boost of sorts from recent reports of ripples in a diffuse radio glow in the sky, thought to be the remains of the Big Bang fireball itself. These ripples are consistent with a popular theory, known as inflation, that the universe briefly speeded its expansion under the influence of a violent antigravitational force, when it was only a fraction of a fraction of a nanosecond old. Those ripples thus provide a useful check on theorists' imaginations. Any theory of cosmic origins that does not explain this phenomenon, cosmologists agree, stands little chance of being right. 
Fortunately or unfortunately, that still leaves room for a lot of possibilities.
"If inflation is the dynamite behind the Big Bang, we're still looking for the match," said Dr. Michael Turner, a cosmologist at the University of Chicago. The only thing that all the experts agree on is that no idea works -- yet. Dr. Turner likened cosmologists to jazz musicians collecting themes that sound good for a work in progress: "You hear something and you say, oh yeah, we want that in the final piece."
One answer to the question of what happened before the Big Bang is that it does not matter because it does not affect the state of our universe today. According to a theory known as eternal inflation, put forward by Dr. Linde in 1986, what we know as the Big Bang was only one out of many in a chain reaction of big bangs by which the universe endlessly reproduces and reinvents itself. "Any particular part of the universe may die, and probably will die," Dr. Linde said, "but the universe as a whole is immortal."
Dr. Linde's theory is a modification of the inflation theory that was proposed in 1980 by Dr. Alan Guth, a physicist. He considered what would happen if, as the universe was cooling during its first violently hot moments, an energy field known as the Higgs field, which interacts with particles to give them their masses, was somehow, briefly, unable to release its energy.
Space, he concluded, would be suffused with a sort of latent energy that would violently push the universe apart. In an eyeblink the universe would double some 60 times over, until the Higgs field released its energy and filled the outrushing universe with hot particles. Cosmic history would then ensue.
Cosmologists like inflation because such a huge outrush would have smoothed any gross irregularities from the primordial cosmos, leaving it homogeneous and geometrically flat. Moreover, it allows the whole cosmos to grow from next to nothing, which caused Dr. Guth to dub the universe "the ultimate free lunch."
Subsequent calculations ruled out the Higgs field as the inflating agent, but there are other inflation candidates that would have the same effect. More important, from the pre-Big-Bang perspective, Dr. Linde concluded, one inflationary bubble would sprout another, which in turn would sprout even more. In effect each bubble would be a new big bang, a new universe with different characteristics and perhaps even different dimensions. Our universe would merely be one of them.
"If it starts, this process can keep happening forever," Dr. Linde explained. "It can happen now, in some part of the universe." 
The greater universe envisioned by eternal inflation is so unimaginably large, chaotic and diverse that the question of a beginning to the whole shebang becomes almost irrelevant. For cosmologists like Dr. Guth and Dr. Linde, that is in fact the theory's lure.
"Chaotic inflation allows us to explain our world without making such assumptions as the simultaneous creation of the whole universe from nothing," Dr. Linde said in an e-mail message. 

Questions for Eternity
Trying to Imagine The Nothingness
Nevertheless, most cosmologists, including Dr. Guth and Dr. Linde, agree that the universe ultimately must come from somewhere, and that nothing is the leading candidate.
As a result, another tune that cosmologists like to hum is quantum theory. According to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, one of the pillars of this paradoxical world, empty space can never be considered really empty; subatomic particles can flit in and out of existence on energy borrowed from energy fields. Crazy as it sounds, the effects of these quantum fluctuations have been observed in atoms, and similar fluctuations during the inflation are thought to have produced the seeds around which today's galaxies were formed.
Could the whole universe likewise be the result of a quantum fluctuation in some sort of primordial or eternal nothingness? Perhaps, as Dr. Turner put it, "Nothing is unstable."
The philosophical problems that plague ordinary quantum mechanics are amplified in so-called quantum cosmology. For example, as Dr. Linde points out, there is a chicken-and-egg problem. Which came first: the universe, or the law governing it? Or, as he asks, "If there was no law, how did the universe appear?" 
One of the earliest attempts to imagine the nothingness that is the source of everything came in 1965 when Dr. John Wheeler and Dr. Bryce DeWitt, now at the University of Texas, wrote down an equation that combined general relativity and quantum theory. Physicists have been arguing about it ever since. 
The Wheeler-DeWitt equation seems to live in what physicists have dubbed "superspace," a sort of mathematical ensemble of all possible universes, ones that live only five minutes before collapsing into black holes and ones full of red stars that live forever, ones full of life and ones that are empty deserts, ones in which the constants of nature and perhaps even the number of dimensions are different from our own.
In ordinary quantum mechanics, an electron can be thought of as spread out over all of space until it is measured and observed to be at some specific location. Likewise, our own universe is similarly spread out over all of superspace until it is somehow observed to have a particular set of qualities and laws. That raises another of the big questions. Since nobody can step outside the universe, who is doing the observing?
Dr. Wheeler has suggested that one answer to that question may be simply us, acting through quantum-mechanical acts of observation, a process he calls "genesis by observership."
"The past is theory," he once wrote. "It has no existence except in the records of the present. We are participators, at the microscopic level, in making that past, as well as the present and the future." In effect, Dr. Wheeler's answer to Augustine is that we are collectively God and that we are always creating the universe.
Another option, favored by many cosmologists, is the so-called many worlds interpretation, which says that all of these possible universes actually do exist. We just happen to inhabit one whose attributes are friendly to our existence.

The End of Time
Just Another Card In the Big Deck
Yet another puzzle about the Wheeler-DeWitt equation is that it makes no mention of time. In superspace everything happens at once and forever, leading some physicists to question the role of time in the fundamental laws of nature. In his book "The End of Time," published to coincide with the millennium, Dr. Julian Barbour, an independent physicist and Einstein scholar in England, argues that the universe consists of a stack of moments, like the cards in a deck, that can be shuffled and reshuffled arbitrarily to give the illusion of time and history.
The Big Bang is just another card in this deck, along with every other moment, forever part of the universe. "Immortality is here," he writes in his book. "Our task is to recognize it."
Dr. Carlo Rovelli, a quantum gravity theorist at the University of Pittsburgh, pointed out that the Wheeler-DeWitt equation doesn't mention space either, suggesting that both space and time might turn out to be artifacts of something deeper. "If we take general relativity seriously," he said, "we have to learn to do physics without time, without space, in the fundamental theory." 
While admitting that they cannot answer these philosophical questions, some theorists have committed pen to paper in attempts to imagine quantum creation mathematical rigor.
Dr. Alexander Vilenkin, a physicist at Tufts University in Somerville, Mass., has likened the universe to a bubble in a pot of boiling water. As in water, only bubbles of a certain size will survive and expand, smaller ones collapse. So, in being created, the universe must leap from no size at all -- zero radius, "no space and no time" -- to a radius large enough for inflation to take over without passing through the in-between sizes, a quantum-mechanical process called "tunneling."
Dr. Stephen Hawking, the Cambridge University cosmologist and best-selling author, would eliminate this quantum leap altogether. For the last 20 years he and a series of collaborators have been working on what he calls a "no boundary proposal." The boundary of the universe is that it has no boundary, Dr. Hawking likes to say.
One of the keys to Dr. Hawking's approach is to replace time in his equations with a mathematical conceit called imaginary time; this technique is commonly used in calculations regarding black holes and in certain fields of particle physics, but its application to cosmology is controversial.
The universe, up to and including its origin, is then represented by a single conical-shaped mathematical object, known as an instanton, that has four spatial dimensions (shaped roughly like a squashed sphere) at the Big Bang end and then shifts into real time and proceeds to inflate. "Actually it sort of bursts and makes an infinite universe," said Dr. Neil Turok, also from Cambridge University. "Everything for all future time is determined, everything is implicit in the instanton."
Unfortunately the physical meaning of imaginary time is not clear. Beyond that, the approach produces a universe that is far less dense than the real one. 

The Faith of Strings
Theorists Bring On The 'Brane' Worlds
But any real progress in discerning the details of the leap from eternity into time, cosmologists say, must wait for the formulation of a unified theory of quantum gravity that succeeds in marrying Einstein's general relativity to quantum mechanics -- two views of the world, one describing a continuous curved space-time, the other a discontinuous random one -- that have been philosophically and mathematically at war for almost a century. Such a theory would be able to deal with the universe during the cauldron of the Big Bang itself, when even space and time, theorists say, have to pay their dues to the uncertainty principle and become fuzzy and discontinuous.
In the last few years, many physicists have pinned their hopes for quantum gravity on string theory, an ongoing mathematically labyrinthean effort to portray nature as comprising tiny wiggly strings or membranes vibrating in 10 or 11 dimensions.
In principle, string theory can explain all the known (and unknown) forces of nature. In practice, string theorists admit that even their equations are still only approximations, and physicists outside the fold complain that the effects of "stringy physics" happen at such high energies that there is no hope of testing them in today's particle accelerators. So theorists have been venturing into cosmology, partly in the hopes of discovering some effect that can be observed.
The Big Bang is an obvious target. A world made of little loops has a minimum size. It cannot shrink beyond the size of the string loops themselves, Dr. Robert Brandenberger, now at Brown, and Dr. Cumrun Vafa, now at Harvard, deduced in 1989. When they used their string equations to imagine space shrinking smaller than a certain size, Dr. Brandenberger said, the universe acted instead as if it were getting larger. "It looks like it is bouncing from a collapsing phase."
In this view, the Big Bang is more like a transformation, like the melting of ice to become water, than a birth, explained Dr. Linde, calling it "an interesting idea that should be pursued." Perhaps, he mused, there could be a different form of space and time before the Big Bang. "Maybe the universe is immortal," he said. "Maybe it just changes phase. Is it nothing? Is it a phase transition? These are very close to religious questions."
Work by Dr. Brandenberger and Dr. Vafa also explains how it is that we only see 3 of the 9 or 10 spatial dimensions the theory calls for. Early in time the strings, they showed, could wrap around space and strangle most of the spatial dimensions, keeping them from growing.
In the last few years, however, string theorists have been galvanized by the discovery that their theory allows for membranes of various dimensions ("branes" in string jargon) as well as strings. Moreover they have begun to explore the possibility that at least one of the extra dimensions could be as large as a millimeter, which is gigantic in string physics. In this new cosmology, our world is a three-dimensional island, or brane floating in a five-dimensional space, like a leaf in a fish tank. Other branes might be floating nearby. Particles like quarks and electrons and forces like electromagnetism are stuck to the brane, but gravity is not, and thus the brane worlds can exert gravitational pulls on each other.
"A fraction of a millimeter from you is another universe," said Dr. Linde. "It might be there. It might be the determining factor of the universe in which you live."

Worlds in Collision
A New Possibility Is Introduced
That other universe could bring about creation itself, according to several recent theories. One of them, called branefall, was developed in 1998 by Dr. Georgi Dvali of New York University and Dr. Henry Tye, from Cornell. In it the universe emerges from its state of quantum formlessness as a tangle of strings and cold empty membranes stuck together. If, however, there is a gap between the branes at some point, the physicists said, they will begin to fall together. 
Each brane, Dr. Dvali said, will experience the looming gravitational field of the other as an energy field in its own three-dimensional space and will begin to inflate rapidly, doubling its size more than a thousand times in the period it takes for the branes to fall together. "If there is at least one region where the branes are parallel, those regions will start an enormous expansion while other regions will collapse and shrink," Dr. Dvali said.
When the branes finally collide, their energy is released and the universe heats up, filling with matter and heat, as in the standard Big Bang.
This spring four physicists proposed a different kind of brane clash that they say could do away with inflation, the polestar of Big Bang theorizing for 20 years, altogether. Dr. Paul Steinhardt, one of the fathers of inflation, and his student Justin Khoury, both of Princeton, Dr. Burt Ovrut of Penn State and Dr. Turok call it the ekpyrotic universe, after the Greek word "ekpyrosis," which denotes the fiery death and rebirth of the world in Stoic philosophy.
The ekpyrotic process begins far in the indefinite past with a pair of flat empty branes sitting parallel to each other in a warped five-dimensional space -- a situation they say that represents the simplest solution of Einstein's equations in an advanced version of string theory. The authors count it as a point in their favor that they have not assumed any extra effects that do not already exist in that theory. "Hence we are proposing a potentially realistic model of cosmology," they wrote in their paper.
The two branes, which form the walls of the fifth dimension, could have popped out of nothingness as a quantum fluctuation in the even more distant past and then drifted apart.
At some point, perhaps when the branes had reached a critical distance apart, the story goes, a third brane could have peeled off the other brane and begun falling toward ours. During its long journey, quantum fluctuations would ripple the drifting brane's surface, and those would imprint the seeds of future galaxies all across our own brane at the moment of collision. Dr. Steinhardt offered the theory at an astronomical conference in Baltimore in April.
In the subsequent weeks the ekpyrotic universe has been much discussed. Some cosmologists, particularly Dr. Linde, have argued that in requiring perfectly flat and parallel branes the ekpyrotic universe required too much fine-tuning.
In a critique Dr. Linde and his co-authors suggested a modification they called the "pyrotechnic universe."
Dr. Steinhardt admitted that the ekpyrotic model started from a very specific condition, but that it was a logical one. The point, he said, was to see if the universe could begin in a long-lived quasi-stable state "starkly different from inflation." The answer was yes. His co-author, Dr. Turok, pointed out, moreover, that inflation also requires fine-tuning to produce the modern universe, and physicists still don't know what field actually produces it.
"Until we have solved quantum gravity and connected string theory to particle physics none of us can claim victory," Dr. Turok said.
In the meantime, Augustine sleeps peacefully.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times yesterday about ideas on the origin of the universe misstated the affiliation of Dr. Burt Ovrut, a scientist who speculated that the Big Bang was ignited by a clash of island universes. He is at the University of Pennsylvania, not Penn State.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. John Wheeler, left, and Dr. Andrei Linde have developed separate theories on the origins of the universe. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times, left; Todd Buchanan for The New York Times, right)(pg. F2) Chart/Diagram: "Inflationary Bubbles and Other Ideas"To explain what might have existed before the birth of the universe, cosmologists turn to a number of imaginative theories. CURRENT THEORIES QUANTUM UNCERTAINTYOn the tiny, quantum scale, particles exist only as clouds of probability until they are actually observed. QUANTUM FLUCTUATIONSParticles can also flit in and out of existence in a kind of foam, even in empty space. A tiny universe could have appeared seemingly out of nothing. ENERGY FIELDSCertain kinds of energy fields could have temporarily imbued space with negative gravity, blowing the early universe apart. BRANE THEORY (STRING THEORY VARIATION)In this cosmology, three-dimensional islands, or membranes, float in a five dimensional megaverse. If two membranes were to collide, the clash could ignite a Big Bang. INFLATION THEORYA furious expansion stretches the fabric of space, taking it from the size of a proton to the size of a grapefruit in a tiny fraction of a second. STRING THEORYIn this cosmology, the universe consists of tiny loops of vibrating strings that form the particles of ordinary matter. According to string theorists, the Big Bang may be a transition from a previously shrinking universe that has reached its minimum size and started to expand. QUANTUM COSMOLOGYJust as a particle exists as a cloud of probability, theoretically everywhere at once until it is observed, some theorists suggest that our universe encompasses all possibilities until it is observed to have a particular set of physical rules. BIG BANGThe energy of inflation becomes a hot fireball that continues growing into a dense soup of matter. (Sources: Cosmology for Beginners,by John Gribbin; Scientific American)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); PHYSICS (74%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (72%); MUSIC (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (51%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%) SPACE; UNIVERSE 

COMPANY: INFINITY AS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%)

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



606 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2027 words

HEADLINE: THE DOCTOR'S WORLD; 
Cancer Doctors See New Era of Optimism

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D. 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 21 

 BODY:
When Todd Hendrickson developed an uncommon intestinal cancer in 1997, he traveled to medical centers around the country from his home in Minnetonka, Minn., seeking effective therapy. But five different therapeutic combinations failed as the painful cancer grew to the size of two footballs, spread to his liver and so weakened him that his wife had to lift him out of bed.
 "If I had been in Holland at the time, I would probably have used their deal, it was that close," he said in an interview, referring to the country's euthanasia policy. 
 Doctors told Mr. Hendrickson, a 43-year-old investment banker, to get his affairs in order for his wife and three young children. 
Then Dr. Timothy D. Sielaff, a surgeon at the University of Minnesota, offered hope. Dr. Sielaff operated three times over a two-year period, each time removing cancerous tissue from his abdomen. "I would keep cutting to keep Mr. Hendrickson alive so he could keep searching for a medical cure since surgery could not provide one," Dr. Sielaff said.
The search ended last August when Mr. Hendrickson became the first patient with the intestinal cancer known as GIST in a trial of a drug now known as Gleevec at the Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. The drug worked within days, has shrunk his cancer by 80 percent and he feels like his old athletic self, he said. But the duration of his remission is unknown since he and his doctors are in uncharted waters.
"For now this stuff is for real," he said, adding, "I am not 100 percent, but I feel the best I have in three years."
This month, the Food and Drug Administration approved Gleevec for a blood cancer known as chronic myelocytic leukemia in which the number of white cells runs amok.
And last week at a meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology here, scientists reported that Gleevec had also worked in about 60 percent of nearly 200 cases with Mr. Hendrickson's type of cancer, known as GIST for gastrointestinal stromal tumor. But it is too early to know how long the remissions will last and how long patients will need to take Gleevec.
The new optimism overshadowed the fact that no one knows whether the cancers will develop resistance to Gleevec. Similar drugs are lacking for the four major cancers -- breast, colorectal, lung and prostate.
Rarely do drugs come along to rescue people from the brink of death. Insulin did it for diabetics in the 1920's. In World War II, penicillin and other antibiotics cured systemic infections and tuberculosis. In 1996, the addition of protease inhibitors to other drug combinations allowed many AIDS patients to get off their deathbeds.
So news of cases like Mr. Hendrickson's, and at least one other person who had planned her funeral only to be discharged from a hospice, heighten expectations that similar new drugs will soon follow.
Doctors tend to reveal their emotions cautiously, and to protect against false hopes many have trained themselves to avoid using words like "breakthrough," "cure" and "miracle." Yet many of the 26,000 participants at the clinical oncology meeting were openly caught up in the excitement of patients for whom Gleevec has worked magic so far.
Two of the country's leading cancer experts -- the society's president, Dr. Larry Norton of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, and the president of M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Dr. John Mendelsohn -- each spoke of Gleevec as a miracle drug at news conferences. And in an interview, Dr. Sielaff, Mr. Hendrickson's surgeon, described his response as "not much short of miraculous."
"It sounds almost maudlin to say that, but it is true," he added. "It is the thing that oncologists have not seen in a long time."
Medical advances have come at a rapid pace in many fields in recent decades, but in some ways have been slower for cancer. In trials, most therapies have provided only weeks, not years, of extra life, leaving many oncologists frustrated because they can cure only a few cancers.
"It's been gloomy," Dr. Mendelsohn said, and "many oncologists suffer burnout."
Over recent years laboratory and animal experiments on the basic, or molecular, structure and function of cells have provided better understanding of how normal cells can go awry to form cancers. But for much of that time, the understanding was more intellectual than practical.
Many earlier cancer gains have come from accidental discoveries, not planned experiments. Now scientists are using the newer molecular information to design experimental drugs to act as guided missiles that aim to destroy only cancerous cells, sparing healthy ones.
Scientists call it molecular targeting because drugs home in on chemical signals that can turn a normal cell into a cancer. Among the targets are receptors on cell surfaces for growth factors and other proteins that go awry. Gleevec works by hitting a specific molecular target in the cell.
Society is beginning to see the payoff from decades of research, oncologists said, citing two newer licensed targeted therapies for cancer: Herceptin for breast cancer and Rituxan for a kind of lymphoma. Though limited, the successes have given oncologists new confidence that by identifying more molecular targets they can rationally design more drugs to block specific actions in cancerous cells.
Gleevec, for example, inhibits three different proteins involved in the cell's internal signaling system. Many cancer cells divide incessantly because their internal signaling systems have been thrown into hyper-drive by some genetic accident. Gleevec cuts off this signaling by slipping into a pocket on the surface of the signaling protein. This pocket is meant to be occupied by another protein known as ATP. With the pocket jammed, the protein can no longer function.
In the case of GIST, Gleevec hits a receptor protein on the surface of the tumor cells known as c-kit. For reasons that are not fully understood, blocking c-kit leads to the destruction of the tumor cells. 
Because of the new understanding of tumors at the molecular level, some experts predicted that cancers would soon be classified by their molecular characteristics rather than the anatomical site of origin as is current practice.
The excitement expressed in the scientific sessions and hallway conversations about Gleevec's benefits for two uncommon cancers transformed the somber mood of past meetings to one of ebullience this year. The public is witnessing a watershed period in medical history, Dr. Norton said, "the beginning of a sea change -- and I am speaking conservatively -- in the way we practice cancer medicine."
Cancer cells are daunting to treat because they often have a number of genetic mutations. They quickly develop resistance to the drugs that are thrown at them, suggesting that no one drug will ever be much use in itself. The unexpected success of Gleevec has raised oncologists' hopes that other drugs like Gleevec, alone or in combination, may bring down many different types of tumors. If the drugs do not cure the cancer, they may allow people to live with it as a chronic disease.
"Many of us were taught that the cancer cell was so messed up with so many biochemical abnormalities that it was impossible to correct them all and therefore really impossible to kill the cancer cell with medicines that hit specific targets in the cancer cell," Dr. Norton recalled. He added: "The fact is that we know that's not true. We know that we can get very good responses and perhaps even cures with very specific targeted molecules. Imagine what we can do when we start combining them and hitting two or three targets at the same time."
But to other leading oncologists, the enthusiasm was premature.
Each of the two cancers for which Gleevec seems effective strike up to 10,000 Americans each year, far fewer than the major cancers.
In discussing whether Gleevec's seeming success was unique or the beginning of a new era, Dr. Charles Sawyer of the University of California at Los Angeles cited other experts who contend that the more common cancers will be harder to combat because they have five or more genetic targets. Thus, a drug would need to be developed against each one and used in the correct combination for effective therapy.
Dr. William J. Gradishar of Northwestern University and chairman of the society's cancer communications committee warned that "taking a giant leap to say that other drugs in development will work, and work against the major cancers, is just that, a giant leap of faith."
"The most common cancers are tough nuts to crack," Dr. Gradishar warned.
Despite the promise of new biotechnology drugs, "we won't abandon standard therapies" for a long time, Dr. Gradishar said. The effort to develop more powerful new drugs for cancer will require many clinical trials in which scientists try to integrate experimental drugs with older ones, either in combination or in sequence.
One eventual hope is to use the power of the new science of cancer to predict individual susceptibility to cancer and response to therapy. But because scientists need to learn so much to achieve that and other goals, "we should be temperate in our claims to the public" and wary of making predictions, said Dr. J. Michael Bishop, the chancellor of the University of California at San Francisco, who won a Nobel Prize for his cancer research.
Nevertheless, Dr. Mendelsohn, the Houston expert who pioneered the development of an experimental drug, C-225, now being tested against several types of cancer, said the new wave of optimism was "not false enthusiasm."
"It's an expectation, but the benefits won't be delivered in the next few months," Dr. Mendelsohn said.
Dr. Mendelsohn likened the quest for specific cancer treatments to the history of tuberculosis, saying a half century passed between the discovery of the bacterium that causes the infection and the first antibiotics that cure it.
For cancer, Dr. Brian J. Druker, the Oregon Health and Science University researcher who was a pioneer in developing Gleevec, noted that it took 115 years from the first description of the blood cancer in 1845 to the discovery of a genetic abnormality known as the Philadelphia chromosome. It plays a key role in causing the disease. Then it took another 41 years to develop Gleevec as the first effective therapy.
New therapies are coming much faster now. More than 400 experimental drugs are in various stages of human testing for the scores of different cancers, compared with about 20 a decade ago, oncology leaders said, and finding enough patients to enter trials to test the drugs may become a challenge as great as the research.
Treating cancer with the promised drugs will be costly. Novartis, Gleevec's manufacturer, is charging up to $2,400 a month for the drug, although the company has introduced a sliding scale according to patients' incomes.
Some speakers, making comparisons to other sectors of the economy, said the country might have to spend considerably more on health care.
Companies that are developing cancer drugs, particularly the younger, start-up members of the biotechnology industry, are under pressure to keep the price of their stock up. And researchers in universities who receive grants from the National Cancer Institute and other federal agencies also are under pressure to publicize findings to justify public spending.
Thus, much of the hoopla surrounding development of the new cancer drugs, genetic findings and the Human Genome Project reflects a public relations barrage from industry and academe. That was evident at the oncologists' meeting, which has been described as the Super Bowl of cancer meetings.
Such publicity has raised public hopes for quick advances in cancer.
Despite their enthusiasm, many oncologists conceded that cancer most likely would remain the second-leading cause of death in the United States and most other developed countries this decade. The hope is for the decades following.
As Dr. Judy Garber, an oncologist at Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, said: "My mother always responds to the news of whatever the drug of the day is by asking, 'Will you still have a job?' And, unfortunately, I think I will."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Larry Norton, the president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and many other doctors have high praise for Gleevec, a new drug to treat a blood cancer. (Todd Buchanan/ASCO)(pg. F1); Dr. William J. Gradishar, left, spoke of problems treating major cancers; Dr. John Mendelsohn alluded to the "miraculous." (Photographs by Todd Buchanan/ASCO)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (90%); CANCER (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LEUKEMIA (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); HOSPICE (78%); BLOOD DISORDERS (78%); AIDS & HIV (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (73%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (71%); DIABETES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); US FDA APPROVALS (51%); APPROVALS (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%) CANCER; LEUKEMIA; GLEEVEC (DRUG); BLOOD; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); DOCTORS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CLINICAL ONCOLOGY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%) MINNESOTA, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



607 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 COPPER RISES. Copper rose on speculation that a decline in interest rates would help revive sluggish demand for metals. In New York, copper for July delivery rose 1.55 cents, or 2 percent, to 80.3 cents a pound.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); TRENDS (86%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



608 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO DROPS. The euro fell on speculation that reports in coming days will show the European economy is slowing, discouraging investment in the region. In New York, the euro settled at 87.69 cents, down from 87.93 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



609 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Hope Before Hype 

BYLINE:  By Mark Winston Griffith; Mark Winston Griffith is executive director of the Central Brooklyn Partnership, a community organizing group.

 BODY:
The recent scandal surrounding the venerable Harlem-based Hale House is a telling story of a high-profile nonprofit organization being consumed by the very media forces that helped bring it national attention. Mother Clara Hale, the late founder of Hale House, was depicted as the Mother Theresa of Harlem. This characterization not only served to offer a glimmer of hope in a drug-ravaged New York, but helped crystallize the image of Harlem as a den of hopelessness, a Western Calcutta. Hale House in turn was able to leverage the cult of personality around Mother Hale into immense philanthropic support and recognition. It's a trade-off. 
 In 1993, a community financial institution I co-founded to serve Bedford-Stuyvesant was deemed a success before we even opened our doors. We promoted our community "bank" at our grand opening as "the world's first hip hop credit union." 
 Over the next four years my co-founder and I were featured in The New York Times, met the president of the United States, were interviewed on the MacNeil-Lehrer News Hour and modeled clothes in Details and New York magazines. Yes, we improved economic self-determination in our community -- but fashion models? We're talking about a credit union. Just how sexy can a 9.5 percent unsecured loan be?
There are thousands of not-for-profit groups in New York alone. Most of us are more than thankful for any attention that will help us promote our cause, not to our constituents -- our work speaks for itself -- but to the foundations and individuals we rely on to help pay our bills. Reporters loved to juxtapose my dreadlocks and "hip-hop banker" image against an inaccurate but vivid portrayal of Bed-Stuy's bleak economic landscape.
Charismatic figures like Mother Hale are great vehicles for good works, but they shouldn't be confused with the work itself. Neither should the public mistake an activist's press with the leadership required to bring about social change. After the novelty of the hip-hop credit union wore off, I had to resume the difficult work of building economic power in cooperation with thousands of community stakeholders, most of whom will never end up appearing in the newspaper or chatting on the White House lawn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (88%); SCANDALS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); COMMUNITY BANKS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (67%) CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PHILANTHROPY; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: HALE HOUSE (NYC) 

PERSON: GRIFFITH, MARK WINSTON; HALE, LORRAINE E (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



610 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Cashing in On the World's Energy Hunger; 
Caterpillar Is Riding High on Demand for Diesel Generators

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: LAFAYETTE, Ind. 

 BODY:
Ted Lewis lowers a gigantic iron block into place, clamps it down, and begins drilling holes in the skeleton of what will become an 8,000-pound diesel engine.
 That engine, an array of bolts, fuel lines, filters and pistons, rolls off the assembly line at the Caterpillar plant here, ready to be bolted onto a two-megawatt electric generator that will create a machine capable of delivering the power that everyone seems to crave these days. 
 The generators, which are nearly twice as big as a midsize car, are being shipped to California so that Internet server centers there will have the uninterrupted power they need to keep the digital age humming; they are going to hospitals and police departments, which are obligated to have emergency power; and they are being installed at big manufacturing operations and office buildings, which are bracing in a few parts of the country for a summer of rolling blackouts.
"These companies are saying, 'We can't rely on the utilities anymore; we're going to put our own standby units in,' " said Jim Parker, director of electric power generation at Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill. "And they're saying, 'How much power do you have and how fast can you get it here?' " 
For Caterpillar, the world's largest manufacturer of construction and earthmoving equipment, soaring demand for diesel-powered generators is bolstering profits in a fast-growing unit and helping stabilize a company that is coping with slowing sales of construction and mining equipment.
Analysts say the growth of the engine business is making Caterpillar much less of a roller coaster ride than it was in past downturns, when it invariably lost money at the low points. And they say that global energy demand is expected to continue to rise for several years, raising the company's long-term prospects. By 2006, if power generation sales continue to grow by 20 percent a year, as they have for the last six years, they could account for a fifth of the company's revenues.
The strength of its engine business is helping Caterpillar transform itself into a diversified equipment supplier and service provider; it is no longer just a builder of its traditional yellow earthmovers, tractors and other equipment. Indeed, all the company's energy-related businesses -- turbines, diesel-engine generators, oil and gas exploration equipment, and coal mining trucks -- are growing rapidly, benefiting from the nation's energy shortfall.
"One of the reasons Caterpillar's profits in this downturn are better than the downturn in the early 90's is their strength in the energy business," said David Bleustein, an analyst at UBS Warburg .
The value of Caterpillar shares has nearly doubled in the last eight months and is up 18 percent this year. The stock, which is still well below its 1999 high of $64 a share, closed yesterday at $55.70, up 45 cents.
Of course, with the overall economy weakening, Caterpillar is still too heavily tied to the construction industry to avoid a downturn entirely. Profits on about $20 billion in global sales are expected to drop about 14 percent this year, according to Wall Street analysts.
Others are gaining from the energy shortages as well. Cummins Engine and Detroit Diesel -- the nation's other big diesel engine makers -- have also experienced strong demand for the large engines that power small electric generators, though demand has weakened a bit lately. But Caterpillar dominates the world market in diesel-powered generators, which the company says are selling just as strongly overseas.
"You have to understand that the guts of the energy story is offshore," John McGinty, an analyst at Credit Suisse, said. "In the developing world, it's primary power."
Caterpillar has been building diesel engines -- for trucks, buses and locomotives, as well as power generators -- for decades. The acquisition of Perkins Engines in 1997 strengthened the company's grip on the market. By 1999, Caterpillar was the world's biggest maker of diesel and natural gas engines, with nearly $7 billion in sales.
Over all, the company was riding high, bolstered by explosive demand for large trucks and buses. But now, with large truck sales down sharply in the last year, it is Cat Power, as the company calls the power division, that is insulating the company from a steeper downturn and giving Caterpillar a new image.
Much of the generator sales growth a few years ago came from Year 2000 computer concerns. Now it is coming from demand in the western United States, where power shortages are most feared.
Major corporations, hospitals and manufacturing operations are installing backup generators. The diesel-powered generators are used primarily for standby or emergency use, largely because they are relatively expensive to operate and maintain; in some states there are also restrictions on the emissions that come from diesel engines.
Internet server centers are among the biggest purchasers of Caterpillar diesel engines and generators. They not only want continuous power, they need the power modulated so the electric flow does not fluctuate with power spikes and dips.
"Anybody in the data business has to be thinking seriously about this," said Sam Bogoch, the chief executive of Big Storage, which provides storage systems for Internet and other companies.
Standby generators are also in vogue in New York City, which some utility experts say could face power shortages this summer. By some estimates, 80 percent of all skyscrapers in New York are equipped with standby or emergency generators.
Though sales to telecommunications and Internet companies have slowed in the New York region, other corporations and even residences are buying up smaller generators, according to Jim Delaney, a vice president at H. O. Penn Machinery, the region's Caterpillar dealer.
Even utility companies themselves are renting or purchasing standby generators. Some want to plug them into their power grids. Others are buying mobile power modules as Caterpillar calls them: trailers equipped with a generator set with switching gear that can speed to a site to supply backup power. Production of the modules has quadrupled in the last nine months, the company says.
Two years ago, Commonwealth Edison, the big Chicago utility, rented about 200 power modules from Caterpillar for emergency use. This summer, the utility says it expects to have enough power; but nearly a dozen trailers are strategically positioned around the Chicago area, just in case.
Exactly how many diesel generator sets are in operation in the United States is unclear.
Caterpillar's popular two-megawatt diesel generators -- enough to supply the average needs of 2,000 homes -- sell for about $250,000 each. One generator can supply electricity to a hospital; larger buildings often have three, four, even eight generators.
In New York, Goldman Sachs just placed eight Caterpillar generators atop its downtown headquarters at 85 Broad Street. The World Trade Center hoisted four units atop one of its buildings. And AT&T purchased dozens of generator sets to back up the Web hosting sites it opened around the nation early this year.
In California, Caterpillar's standby power is not connected to local utility grids. Instead, it is hooked up to individual factories, office towers and other buildings.
Rental power is also a lucrative business for Caterpillar and its independent dealers. Operating, maintaining, servicing and selling the parts for the units is typically far more profitable than simply selling them.
The generators Caterpillar builds this year are capable of producing 25 gigawatts of power, enough to supply electricity to about 25 million homes. And about half of the company's electric power sales are going overseas, to places like India and Brazil.
"One-third of the world's population still has no access to electricity," said Mr. Parker at Caterpillar.
There are drawbacks, though, to relying on the generators as a primary source of power. Diesel generators create much more pollution than other sources of electricity. In California and New York, where emissions standards are high, some generators are only allowed to operate for about 200 hours a year. New York State is moving to expand the use of such diesel generators when brownouts or blackouts loom. California is facing similar questions about pollution.
"It'll supply the electricity if it's needed, but it's going to create a huge smog cloud," said Robert Burns, a senior researcher at the National Regulatory Research Institute, which does studies for state public utility commissions.
Caterpillar officials point out that diesel engines do not belch out the black clouds of smoke they did a decade ago. But they are aware that cleaner and more efficient modes of power may eventually topple the diesel engine. Caterpillar is already researching alternative sources of power, everything from dual-fuel engines to alternative fuels.
"There are alternative technologies that are some day going to challenge this market, like fuel cells and microturbines," Mr. Bleustein at UBS Warburg said. "But right now, in today's market, it's diesel engines."
Caterpillar says that more of the generators it sells over the next decade will run on natural gas, a much cleaner fuel. Today, about 10 percent of its two-megawatt generators are powered by natural gas; that figure is expected to jump to 50 percent within a decade, the company says.
Diesel-powered generators are not the only source of excitement at Caterpillar these days. Sales of coal mining equipment, like large trucks, shovels and mobile power generators, are soaring because of a resurgence in demand for coal-powered electricity.
Oil and gas exploration is also booming, and Caterpillar sells engines that power offshore rigs and compressors that gather, store and pump gas through pipelines. The company's financing unit is also growing, with profits of $182 million last year. These strengths are offsetting a 50 percent drop in orders for truck engines, and a marked slowdown in demand for construction equipment so far this year.
With its growing emphasis on energy equipment, is Caterpillar less cyclical than it was a decade ago? It seems so, though it is still hard to tell how much more it will suffer if this economic downturn turns out to be as long and difficult as the recession and slow initial recovery of the early 1990's. Still, most analysts are confident that Caterpillar is in a good position to ride out the storm.
"Energy stuff is giving you some offset," Mr. Bleustein said. "Cat may be the only company I follow that hasn't had a significant profit revision."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Caterpillar electric power generator, left, atop a Manhattan skyscraper. By some estimates, 80 percent of all New York skyscrapers are equipped with standby or emergency generators. (H. O. Penn Machinery); Monte Dehne, left, and Jon Hodgen install a heat shield on a generator at a Caterpillar plant in Lafayette, Ind. (Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Bill Belt works on a diesel generator at Caterpillar's plant in Lafayette, Ind. Soaring demand has bolstered profits and stabilized a company faced with slowing sales in construction and mining equipment. (Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. C9) Chart: "Getting Off the Economy-Go-Round"For decades, Caterpillar has been the definition of a cyclical business -- one whose fortunes rise and fall with the economy. Now, by develping its business of selling small electric power generators, the company is insulating itself more from economic ups and downs. Chart shows weekly closing stock price of Caterpillar since 1998.(Source: Company reports; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 1996Sales of power generators: $1.2 billionPercentage of total revenue from generators: 7.3 1997Sales of power generators: $1.3 billionPercentage of total revenue from generators: 6.9 1998Sales of power generators: $1.6 billionPercentage of total revenue from generators: 7.6 1999Sales of power generators: $1.8 billionPercentage of total revenue from generators: 9.1 2000Sales of power generators: $2.3 billionPercentage of total revenue from generators: 11.4(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); DIESEL ENGINE MFG (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); COAL MINING (64%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (62%); POLICE FORCES (54%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DIESEL POWER 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC 

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY; 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (55%) INDIANA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



611 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Profits Plunged In First Quarter At Limited Inc. 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio, May 21 

 BODY:
Profit at Limited Inc. dropped by about half in its most recent quarter because of sluggish sales of spring tops and pants and a decline in earnings at its majority-owned Intimate Brands.
Second-quarter profit will also fall "significantly," Limited said.
 Net income fell 51 percent, to $30.7 million, or 7 cents a share, matching analysts' estimates, from $63 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier. Sales in the period, which ended May 5 and was the first quarter of Limited's fiscal year, were little changed, at $2.13 billion. Profit fell 48 percent at Intimate Brands, owner of the Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works chains. 
 A slowdown in the economy led shoppers to shy away from malls, where most of the company's stores are, Limited said. Same-store sales fell at its Limited and Structure chains and at Intimate Brands' stores, as consumers spent less on clothing, bath gels and lotions. Bra sales could not match those of last year, when customers snapped up new lines like Body by Victoria. 
"Intimate Brands' performance has a huge impact on Limited's earnings," said a Wells Fargo Van Kasper analyst, Jennifer Black. 
Sales at Limited's stores that were open at least a year fell 2 percent, breaking a streak of at least six quarterly gains. The drop was led by a 5 percent decline at Structure, the retailer's men's chain.
At Intimate Brands, in which Limited owns an 84 percent stake, same-store sales fell 7 percent. That included an 8 percent drop at Bath & Body Works. 
Limited shares were unchanged at $17.10. Intimate Brands fell 24 cents, to $16.20. Both are based in Columbus. 
Limited and Intimate Brands both expect per-share profit to fall significantly in the second quarter and slightly in the year. Neither company provided specific forecasts.
First-quarter sales at stores open at least a year fell 1 percent at the Limited chain. Sales rose 1 percent at the Express division, 6 percent at Lerner New York and 5 percent at Lane Bryant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (74%); LINGERIE (73%); WOMEN (72%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (72%); TOILET SOAPS (69%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (68%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (57%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LIMITED INC 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%) SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES; SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (66%) OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



612 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS -- New York; 
Households Grow and Fewer People Live Alone, Data Show

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
The immigrant influx and a tight housing market appear to be reshaping the way many New Yorkers live, according to census figures released yesterday that show more city residents doubling up, a drop in the percentage of people living alone and the biggest increase in average household size in 50 years.
 The number of boarders, roommates and relatives living in other people's homes has risen significantly, the data show. Fewer elderly New Yorkers are living by themselves. Even the percentage of Manhattan residents living alone, long far higher than anywhere else in the country, has dropped. 
 The census figures underscore a growing impression of New York as a rapidly evolving place, where once spacious single-family homes in Queens now accommodate multiple immigrant families and perhaps others, and where even Manhattan studio dwellers find themselves more likely to take in a roommate. 
"It's fascinating," said Andrew J. Cherlin, a demographer and professor of public policy at Johns Hopkins University who studies families and households. "There is no question that immigration and the tight housing market have affected New York City households."
The numbers also indicate some slowing of the rate of change in the makeup of New York City families. The number of married-couple households rose in the 1990's after dropping by nearly 9 percent in the 1980's. And the percentage of households made up of married couples with children under 18 rose slightly.
That small rise, thought to reflect the relatively high fertility rates among some immigrant groups and an abundance of baby boomer families, is in contrast to a downward trend in recent decades that continued nationally in the census numbers reported last week.
Meanwhile, nearly one in five New York City households is now headed by a woman. While the number of female-headed households with children rose at a rate that some sociologists said was slower than in the past and slower than the increase nationwide, the number did continue to rise.
"I think it's interesting that New York is becoming a more child-centered place," said Kathleen Gerson, a professor of sociology at New York University. "There are growing percentages of family households, married-couple households and female-headed households with children."
She added: "New York can only benefit from being a place where children live and thrive, not simply a place where adults spend some time before or after building families. 
"But this also suggests the challenges the city faces -- educating young children and providing for their welfare."
The data also shed new light on precisely how much the city's population grew in the 1990's. While the official count released in March topped eight million for the first time, planning officials have suspected that the increase was a product not only of growth but also of better counting.
The new data support their thinking. The number of households rose by more than 200,000 over the 1990 number, or six times the rise recorded for the 1980's -- an increase so improbably large that some say it suggests that the city's record-breaking population count must have included some households that were simply missed before.
"It's probably about half and half," said Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, suggesting that half the increase in numbers was due to growth and half to better counting. He said the Department of City Planning intended to try to come up with a definitive answer over the next few weeks.
The figures, part of a series from the 2000 census being released over three years, include preliminary findings on who lives with whom. More detailed data on those households and families, including information about income, education levels and nation of origin, are due out later.
Professor Cherlin said his calculations indicated that 39 percent of the city's population growth fell into two census categories: "other relative of head of household," which includes, for example, grandparents or cousins; and "nonrelative of head of household," which can include a friend or someone from an immigrant's village or home country (this category does not include unmarried partners). Nationally, less than a quarter of all growth fell into those categories, he said.
"Those are just the kind of people you'd expect to find in a city with many immigrants and a tight housing market," Professor Cherlin said. "Because immigrants often double up with host families when they come to a new country, and because grandmothers may not move to a separate household if they can't afford the rent."
The percentage of New Yorkers living alone declined slightly to just under 32 percent. While some experts said that the drop in people over 65 living alone might reflect simply a cyclical decline in the number of people in that age group, Professor Cherlin pointed out that the number of elderly living alone nationally rose by 10 percent.
The number of New Yorkers of all ages living alone rose by less than 4 percent, compared with a 21 percent increase nationwide. The percentage of New Yorkers living with an unmarried partner rose slightly.
As a result of those changes, the average household size in the city rose to 2.59 people per household, a figure close to the national average. Household size in the city peaked in 1950 at 3.2, dropped to 2.5 in 1980, then rose to 2.54 in the last census, according to planning department statistics.
Much of the overall increase in household size can be attributed to the large increase in the average household size in Queens. Similarly, the bulk of the increase in housing units occurred in Queens, where city officials say they found the largest share of the units that they say were missing from the Census Bureau's address list.
The overall number of households rose to 3,021,588. Several demographers said the number reflected in part the city's efforts to update the Census Bureau's address list before the 2000 census. The Department of City Planning found several hundred addresses that it said had been missing.
Mr. Rose of the City Planning Commission said that according to building permit records, 82,000 new housing units were built in the city between 1990 and 1999. The roughly 120,000 remaining new units found by the Census Bureau probably included addresses that the city had unearthed as well as subdivided homes, especially in Queens, he said. 
In the area of family structure, married-couple households now make up just over 37 percent of city households. The percentage of married-couple households with children under 18 rose to nearly 18 percent. The national percentage dropped to 23.5 percent, according to the numbers released last week.
The percentage of city households headed by women rose to 19.7 percent, compared with 12.2 percent nationally. Households headed by women with children under age 18 rose to 312,600, or 10.4 percent of the total, up from 9.4 percent in the 1990 census. In the Bronx, however, they accounted for nearly one in five households.
"I was surprised," said Emmanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning and an expert on the census at the Robert Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. "Female-headed families continued to increase, but not running away as fast as before."
There were also differences borough by borough. For example, the percentage of households consisting of elderly people living alone dropped in every borough except Staten Island, which still has the lowest level at 8 percent. The percentage of households with adults of all ages living alone was nearly 48 percent in Manhattan, but just 23 percent in Staten Island and 26 percent in Queens. The percentage of households with children under 18 was highest in the Bronx, at 44 percent, and lowest in Manhattan, at 20 percent.
Homeownership rose. The percentage of owner-occupied units in the city reached 30 percent, up from 23 percent in 1980 and 29 percent in 1990. In a city with some of the highest rental rates in the country, many experts believe that a rise in owner occupancy is a healthy sign because homeowners are presumed to have a greater stake in maintaining their property and the community.
"We're continuing to get a portrait of the city emerging from the census as an increasingly diverse, fundamentally healthy and stable place that's growing," Mr. Rose said. "Which means we have to think in terms of a growth agenda, both in terms of housing units and employment opportunities for these young people that are coming through the educational system, as well as infrastructure and the like. That's the clear message the city can take from this."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about an increase in the average household size in New York City referred incorrectly to efforts by the Department of City Planning to update the Census Bureau's address list before the 2000 Census. The department found that several hundred thousand addresses, not several hundred, were missing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); MARRIAGE (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); REFUGEES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); FERTILITY RATES (68%) POPULATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; HOUSING; CENSUS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



613 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic New York Shifted in 1990's 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
New York City's Hispanic population changed markedly over the last decade as the once dominant Puerto Ricans lost their plurality and the number of people of Mexican ancestry tripled. 
 That shift, and other contours in the city's ethnic landscape, emerged from 2000 census data that was released yesterday and provided new details about the state's increasingly diverse Hispanic and Asian minorities. 
 Over all, the figures showed that the city's traditional ethnic heavyweights -- among Hispanics, the Puerto Ricans, and among Asians, the Chinese -- faced competition for the first time in the 1990's from other fast-growing groups.
The number of Puerto Ricans in the city slipped by 12 percent over the decade, a drop that demographers and community groups attribute to the accelerated movement of retirees back to the island and successful families to the suburbs.
At the same time, a surge of new immigrants from Latin America and the Dominican Republic magnified the effects of that population decline, reducing Puerto Ricans to a mere 36 percent share of the city's Latino population. In 1990, they represented slightly more than half of all Hispanics in the city. 
Their reduced numbers, however, are unlikely to trim back Puerto Rican political dominance. 
"I don't think it changes the immediate makeup of the Latino leadership here, where Puerto Rican officials and policy makers are still the main voice speaking for all Latinos," said Juan Figueroa, president of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund.
Instead, he said, more diversity in the Hispanic population should ultimately produce a broader coalition of Latinos speaking on shared issues. "It's not a zero-sum game," Mr. Figueroa added.
Meanwhile, people of Mexican descent, nearly invisible in the panoply of Latino groups just 10 years ago, have become the third biggest single group of Hispanic New Yorkers, after Puerto Ricans and those of Dominican ancestry. 
Staten Island and Queens showed the biggest growth in people of Mexican background in the city, although comparable increases occurred over the decade in the suburban counties radiating out from New York, like Orange, Westchester and Dutchess. 
"New York became a destination over the past decade in part because Mexico had an economic crisis in 1994 and 1995," said Salvador Beltran del Rio, the Mexican consul general in New York. "At the time you also had a very strong anti-immigrant movement in California, so people didn't want to go there or they wanted to move from the West Coast to the East. Plus, compared with other states, the economy of New York and the Northeast in general has been strong, so there has been a lot of work." 
Colorful evidence of how that migration has become rooted in New York soil could be seen last Sunday in the shadow of Yankee Stadium, where the Diaz Mexican Soccer League opened its season with a day of music, fast food and ceremony at Macombs Dam Park.
As the No. 4 subway train rattled by above their heads and the mariachi band hired for the occasion took a break, hundreds of weekend sportsmen from Mexico paraded around the park in uniforms plastered with the names of beer distributors, soft drink companies, Mexican restaurants and groceries.
There were the Guadalajara Club, Atlas Tecuauti and Real San Sebastian, some with flags proclaiming their name and others accompanied by someone's girlfriend or sister or wife dressed in a long gown or miniskirt. The Diaz league, named for the Mexican-American businessman who owns it, is only one of at least six such leagues in the city and New Jersey.
Most of the soccer players are relatively new arrivals. 
"When I first came, it was very hard because there weren't many Hispanic people near me," said one player, Martin Morales, a 28-year-old Manhattan restaurant worker who left his home in Mexico City for Manhattan in 1992. 
"But the next year, I looked around my neighborhood and in the yards I saw a few more Latinos," he recalled. "The year after that, there were a few more. And now, everyone in all the yards around me is Latino. It's very comfortable."
Daniel Cisneros, another Mexico City native, came to New York eight years ago, at 17, with every intention of eventually returning home. But, in a typical immigrant pattern, life here began to bind him with responsibilities and relationships.
He started to make money working at a dry cleaner in Long Island City, Queens. He met a young woman, also an immigrant, from the Mexican state of Puebla. They married, and now Mr. Cisneros has a 6-year-old son, Christian, who is an American citizen because he was born in New York.
Asked the name of his weekend soccer team, Mr. Cisneros responded, "Las Aguilas." Christian, on the other hand, answered the question in English: "The Eagles."
Now, said Mr. Cisneros, it does not seem logical to go back to Mexico. "Our country is poor," he said. "We have to be here to help those who are left there."
City planners say that the Mexican growth spurt largely reflects the recent migration of Mexicans to New York from other parts of the United States, and that these newcomers in turn will attract more family members from home.
"Once you have a community here and a welcoming environment that includes social and employment connections, more people follow," said Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission. "What starts off as a trickle becomes a steady flow as long as it's a place where people want to come."
About half the reported growth in the population of the city as a whole and for individual ethnic groups is a result of better counting in the 2000 census, Mr. Rose added.
No one has accurate figures, but consular officials said that many of the area's Mexicans are probably living illegally in the country. While immigrants used to shuttle back and forth with relative impunity, they now face harsh penalties if caught at the border. The new laws, passed in 1996, appear to have encouraged more people to settle in the United States.
The latest census figures provided some information about Hispanics who identified themselves as Puerto Ricans, Mexicans or Cubans. All the rest -- including those of Dominican, Colombian or other Latin heritage -- were lumped together as "other Hispanics." 
In New York City, long a magnet for immigrants from the Caribbean and now from South and Central America, that "other Hispanics" category encompasses more people than the other three combined, or more than 1.1 million people. Nationwide, by comparison, the "other" Hispanics accounted for less than one-third of the 35.3 million Hispanics counted in the 2000 census. 
The trend toward more diversity in national origins was also evident among Asians, although less sharply so, according to the new census data.
The number of people of Chinese descent grew over the decade, but by barely 51 percent compared with growth of more than 90 percent between 1980 and 1990. The proportion of Asian New Yorkers who identified themselves as Chinese also slipped slightly.
At the same time, in a dynamic similar to that of Hispanics, other Asian groups appeared to grow at a faster rate than Chinese. The population of people of Indian descent, for example, increased by about 81 percent in both the city and across the state over the last decade. 
And the number of Asians who did not fit into one of the categories listed on the census form -- that is, people who did not identify themselves as Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean or Vietnamese -- also doubled in the city. Among those are Bangladeshis and Pakistanis, two of the city's fastest-growing immigrant groups.

GRAPHIC: Photo: People of Mexican descent have become the third biggest single group of Hispanic New Yorkers, after Puerto Ricans and those of Dominican ancestry. Above, a mariachi band entertains Mexican soccer fans in the Bronx. (James Estrin/The New York Times) Chart: "Ethnic Population Change in the City"Percentage change from 1990 to 2000 for ethnic groups for which data were made public yesterday. Puerto RicanCitywide: -12%Bronx: -9Brooklyn: -22Manhattan: -23Queens: +8Staten Island: +61 MexicanCitywide: +203%Bronx: +175Brooklyn: +172Manhattan: +137Queens: +316Staten Island: +428 CubanCitywide: -27%Bronx: -8Brooklyn: -26Manhattan: -33Queens: -32Staten Island: +13 Other HispanicCitywide: +49%Bronx: +85Brooklyn: +33Manhattan: +27Queens: +53Staten Island: +62 ChineseCitywide: +51%Bronx: -6Brooklyn: +77Manhattan: +21Queens: +61Staten Island: +47 Asian IndianCitywide: +81%Bronx: +38Brooklyn: +62Manhattan: +98Queens: +93Staten Island: +66 KoreanCitywide: +24%Bronx: -22Brooklyn: -6Manhattan: +75Queens: +27Staten Island: +17 FilipinoCitywide: +27%Bronx: +34Brooklyn: +13Manhattan: +7Queens: +37Staten Island: +31 JapaneseCitywide: +35%Bronx: +5Brooklyn: +98Manhattan: +32Queens: +26Staten Island: +21 VietnameseCitywide: +35%Bronx: +27Brooklyn: +26Manhattan: +74Queens: +35Staten Island: +149 Other AsianCitywide: +107%Bronx: +9Brooklyn: +105Manhattan: +55Queens: +156Staten Island: +136 (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CENSUS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); SUBURBS (68%); COUNTIES (65%); SOCCER (63%); SPORTS FANS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%) POPULATION; MINORITIES (US); PUERTO RICANS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); PUERTO RICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (54%)

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



614 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD; 
Reality TV in France: A Smash Hit With Dialectics

BYLINE:  By Alan Riding 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 21 

 BODY:
So the truth is out. With the arrival of the reality show "Big Brother" here this month, the French are proving to be no more highbrow than Spaniards, Italians, Britons, Americans and others before them. Overnight the French have become hooked, tuning in by the millions every evening to watch five men and five woman engaged in an elimination contest in an enclosed space under the eyes of 26 cameras.
 But wait. Perhaps the French are different after all. "Loft Story" (the show's title is in English) may be as hypnotically banal as earlier versions of "Big Brother" elsewhere, but at least here there is the additional entertainment of an immense furor stirred by the show off screen. The question is even being posed: Should the land of Moliere, Montaigne and Voltaire be allowed to watch "trash TV," as reality shows have been tagged here? 
 The first shot was fired by TF1, the privately owned television giant that suddenly found its early-evening ratings battered by the upstart music and movie channel M6. Patrick Le Lay, the president of TF1, decided to fight back, not with a competing show, mind you, but by using his company's immense power to press the government's Higher Audiovisual Council to ban "Loft Story."
Naturally, his argument had nothing to do with ratings. Writing in Le Monde, he said the show raised "ethical, moral and political" problems, not only because TF1 and M6 had agreed not to broadcast reality shows but also because "Loft Story" was spawning "pornographic sub-products" on a satellite channel and on the Internet and because even the M6 show could "incite young people to form temporary couples" (which of course until now has not occurred here).
Still, as head of a network that already offers "Who Wants to be a Millionaire" and is reported to be planning its own "Survivor" show, Mr. Le Lay was open to a counterpunch, which Nicolas de Tavernost, president of M6, promptly delivered. "The simple fact is that TF1 had decided to introduce reality TV into France with 'Survivor,' and we were quicker off the mark," Mr. de Tavernost said. As a follow-up he rescheduled "Loft Story" today to compete directly with "Bigdil," TF1's popular early-evening variety show.
By now, however, far more than ratings appears to be at stake. Could it be that French civilization is also under threat? For two weeks politicians, psychologists, philosophers and newspaper columnists have been opining around the clock, many concluding that France, too, is irreversibly dumbing down, others struggling to understand the stunning appeal of what is at best an unscripted saucy soap opera.
Herve Bourges, a former head of the Higher Audiovisual Council, noted wryly, "Now France can watch itself being bored." Others were more alarmed. Jean-Jacques Delfour, a philosophy professor, described "Loft Story" as "a totalitarian machine." Francois Terre, another prominent academic, lamented that "money, sex, voyeurism, exhibitionism, sadomasochism, a cult of the unwholesome and many other elements of our decadent society are included in 'Loft Story.' "
And yet the show is hardly gripping. Scheduled to last 10 weeks, it eliminates one person each week, with the participants picking two candidates and viewers making the final choice. In the end, the last couple are to live together for six months under the eyes of cameras; if they make it to the end, they are to be rewarded with a house worth $450,000.
To keep things lively between votes, body mikes enable viewers to eavesdrop on private conversations, while games are organized and, the producers hope, romances are initiated. Since the episodes are broadcast in an edited form, any blatant sexual encounters are removed, but they can be seen on a satellite channel that broadcasts from the loft 24 hours a day, with only a two and a half minute delay. Last week the Higher Audiovisual Council decreed that participants should be given two hours of privacy a day.
So far the weekly elimination votes have brought the biggest audiences: more than 10 million people in a country of 59 million, with some 66 percent of viewers between the ages of 15 and 24 tuning in. And in the two phone-in votes, some 3.5 million people chose to evict the first man, Aziz, followed a week later by Kenza. More food for debate: Were the French being racist in first eliminating the only two participants of Arab extraction?
That said, millions of French now know the names, looks and characters of the eight surviving competitors, with teenagers devoting their lunch breaks to arguing about different perfect couples. And being born dialecticians, they find much to discuss. Are the competitors being exploited because they are not being paid as actors? Are homosexuals victims of discrimination since "Loft Story" is designed for a man and a woman to win?
Whether the show can retain public attention for several more weeks is still up in the air, although the countdown to the final couple has drawn huge audiences in other European countries. And here at least the side-show continues. A week ago groups of protesters first tried to "liberate" the "hostages" from their loft. After being driven off by tear gas, they hurled bags of garbage at the M6 headquarters. Two participants who walked out of the loft in the first week (they were replaced) along with the eliminated Aziz were also mobbed like movie stars at the Cannes International Film Festival.
The media, too, have found an interest in keeping alive the debate. On three occasions the normally sober Le Monde has led its front page with coverage of "Loft Story," and has seen its sales rise by 10 percent. Similarly, front-page stories in the left-of-center newspaper Liberation raised its circulation by 15 percent. Skyrock, a youth radio station, has been reporting on "Loft Story" almost minute by minute, while there are even plans to issue a magazine form of the show, with an initial run of 200,000.
Evidently the true reality of this show is economic. Yet even critics of "Loft Story" seem to enjoy hating it. Their only frustration, perhaps, is that "Big Brother" and its French cousin are a Dutch invention. How much more fun it would have been to denounce "Loft Story" as yet another example of nefarious American cultural influence here. But how to explain that "Big Brother" flopped on American television?

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from "Loft Story," a reality-based show on the French channel M6. The show has been cutting into the ratings of M6's larger rival, TF1. (M6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); WRITERS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); ETHICS (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (73%); POLITICS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) TELEVISION 

COMPANY: TELEVISION FRANCAISE 1 - TF1 SA (84%)

TICKER: TFI (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); SPAIN (90%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



615 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Ways to Value Intangible Assets 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Intangible assets are, by definition, hard to see and even harder to fix a precise value for. But a widening consensus is growing that the importance of such assets -- from brand names and customer lists to trademarks and patents -- means that investors need to know more about them.
 A task force appointed by the Securities and Exchange Commission will urge the S.E.C. today to find a way to encourage companies to provide more information regarding those assets, but will stop well short of demanding that companies be required to make more disclosures. 
 "The kind of information that is needed is not provided by the traditional accounting methods," said Jeffrey E. Garten, the dean of the Yale School of Management and the chairman of the task force that was put together at the request of Arthur Levitt, then the S.E.C.'s chairman. 
The task force began meeting in April 2000, when dot-com stocks were still flying high and there was much criticism of accounting for failing to recognize the values that investors then perceived in those companies.
Many of those perceptions have since evaporated, but members of the task force say there is still a need to better understand the assets that often do not appear on balance sheets. The task force called for improved voluntary disclosures both of intangible assets and of various quantitative measures that can shed light on how companies in some industries are performing.
"There is a gap in GAAP," said a task force member, John Doerr, a partner in Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a leading Silicon Valley venture capital firm, referring to generally accepted accounting principles. "A consensus seems to be emerging that more is needed."
The task force stopped short of calling for new regulation by the S.E.C. Instead, it said the S.E.C. should seek to encourage the disclosure of additional information, which it hoped would become standardized within industries. The group said it might be necessary to broaden existing rules to protect companies from being sued if the new disclosures included forecasts that did not prove to be accurate.
As an example of possible new disclosures, Mr. Doerr said companies could provide estimates on the lifetime value, in terms of revenue and profit, of a customer, as well as of the cost of acquiring new customers.
There has been a lot of talk in recent years about the importance of such assets, which also include landing rights of airlines and even desirable business locations, but they generally do not appear in financial statements if the assets are developed by the company, although they can appear as a result of an acquisition.
Logically, that makes little sense. But absent a sale, either of the intangible asset or of the company that owns it, it is hard to fix a value for many such assets. Some, like loyal customers, do not even exist except as an integral part of a successful business.
Speaking last week at a New York University conference on intangibles, the chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Edmund L. Jenkins, said he agreed that voluntary disclosures were needed. But he cautioned against trying to include many such disclosures in the financial statements. "Few would argue that information about intangible assets is not relevant, but many question whether those items are measurable," he said.
Mr. Jenkins noted that an accounting board project had studied the issue and found that some companies were already disclosing such information, but that there was little standardization to the way it was disclosed, sometimes even within the same company.
Mr. Doerr said that another piece of information that many companies and industries might be persuaded to disclose was how large a part of their revenue comes from products introduced within the last year. That would be an indication of the company's ability to innovate, he said.
Another task force member, Richard Sherlund, a technology analyst at Goldman, Sachs, said he hoped that companies would end up providing information on such things as the size of the available market for the products and the competitive strengths and weaknesses of the company. Much of that information, he said, would be relatively soft, meaning that numbers could not be fixed with precision, and not subject to auditing.
For such disclosures to be useful, there would need to be some standardization within industries, and companies would have to be willing to disclose good news as well as bad. The task force voiced hopes that competitive pressures would force such disclosures once they began.
Requiring disclosures would solve that problem, of course, but there is widespread doubt that the S.E.C. could figure out what was best in each industry, or could move fast enough even if it did know. "If you started to regulate right now, these information-based businesses are evolving so quickly," said Nancy Peretsman, a managing director of Allen & Company, an investment bank. "What you don't want to do is put in the wrong disclosure. The best standards will be evolutionary."
Another task force member, Henry Kaufman, an economist and money manager, said that in financial services companies now there were often inadequate disclosures of the risks the companies were taking. "The question now is how enlightened will market participants be" in agreeing to voluntary disclosures, he said. "We'll see if they adhere to voluntary guidelines." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); TRADEMARK LAW (72%); PATENTS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%) COMPANY REPORTS; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (82%)

PERSON: L JOHN DOERR (50%) NORRIS, FLOYD; GARTEN, JEFFREY E; LEVITT, ARTHUR JR (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



616 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Are Raised on the Safety of 2 Popular Arthritis Drugs 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
Doctors are beginning to worry that Vioxx and Celebrex, two wildly popular arthritis drugs, may not be as safe as they were initially believed to be.
 Research presented to the Food and Drug Administration earlier this year showed that patients taking Vioxx, a Merck & Company drug, had a higher, but still relatively low, risk of heart attacks than patients taking an older pain reliever. The study received little public attention at the time, but the F.D.A. is considering whether to add information on possible cardiovascular side effects to both drugs' labels. 
 Now Wall Street is becoming aware of the possible problems, with at least one analyst warning that the problem could particularly affect Merck. 
The two drugs, which cause fewer ulcers than many other pain relievers, are among the best-selling medicines in the world. And both Pharmacia, which makes Celebrex, and Merck are heavily dependent on the drugs for the sales growth that Wall Street expects. 
Celebrex is Pharmacia's biggest-selling drug, generating sales of $2.3 billion in the 12 months ending in March, according to IMS Health. Pfizer co-markets Celebrex with Pharmacia. Merck sold $1.7 billion of Vioxx in the same period, making it the company's second-biggest drug behind the cholesterol medicine Zocor.
Millions of Americans have tried Vioxx or Celebrex, many of them prompted to request them from doctors after seeing television advertisements paid for by the two companies, which are locked in a fierce marketing battle.
While the data is still limited, a large study sponsored by Merck last year showed that patients taking Vioxx had four times the risk of heart attacks of patients taking another pain reliever, naproxen, which is sold both generically and under the brand names Naprosyn or Aleve. The risk, which appears to increase over time, was still low, however, at about 4 heart attacks per 1,000 patients.
Merck says the research does not show a problem with Vioxx. Instead, the company says, naproxen acted to reduce heart attacks by working much like aspirin.
The information from Merck's study was presented to the Food and Drug Administration in February when the companies asked for changes on their drug labels to reflect data showing that Vioxx and Celebrex caused fewer ulcers than other pain relievers. 
In an April 27 report, Richard R. Stover, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Inc., did his own analysis of what he called "disturbing data" from Merck's study. In an interview, Mr. Stover said he was warning his clients, many of them institutional investors who hold Merck shares, that they should watch the issue carefully since it could hurt the company's stock price.
Some doctors, however, say they are worried about both drugs. 
"There must be a warning," said Dr. M. Michael Wolfe, chief of the gastroenterology section at the Boston University School of Medicine and a member of the F.D.A. advisory committee that reviewed the issue earlier this year.
"The marketing of these drugs is unbelievable," Dr. Wolfe added. "I'm sure there are many people out there who are taking these drugs that should not be."
Several doctors say they are worried about the possibility of heart attacks because many of the arthritis patients taking the drugs are elderly and have a higher risk of cardiovascular problems to begin with.
The current debate centers on whether the higher heart attack rate found in patients taking Vioxx is a result of the drug's actually causing damage in some patients or to an absence of the heart-protecting benefits that naproxen may have.
Merck's scientists say that naproxen appears to help reduce heart attacks by stopping or slowing the production of a substance called thromboxane. Thromboxane is thought to cause platelets in the blood to stick together, leading to blood clots.
"Naproxen had a similar antiplatelet effect to aspirin," said Dr. Eve E. Slater, senior vice president of external policy for Merck's research labs, "and those people had fewer heart attacks."
Neither Vioxx nor Celebrex have been shown to have the same heart-protecting benefit.
Dr. Slater also said that Mr. Stover's report was flawed and biased in favor of Pharmacia.
But regulators and some doctors say they still worry that there may be more of a problem with Vioxx.
And even if Vioxx and Celebrex do not damage the heart, the fact that they do not have the heart-protecting benefits of aspirin reduces the ability of the companies to market them as being significantly safer than other pain relievers.
In letters sent to physicians involved in Vioxx clinical trials, Merck recommended last year that doctors consider prescribing low doses of aspirin to patients taking Vioxx if they are at high risk of heart attacks. But those low doses of aspirin could increase the risk of ulcers -- the main side effect that both Vioxx and Celebrex were developed to avoid.
The two drugs, known as Cox-2 inhibitors, have been shown to significantly reduce stomach ulcers compared with pain relievers like aspirin and ibuprofen. In rare cases, serious ulcers can lead to death.
So far, no studies have been done to measure whether patients have fewer ulcers if they take low doses of aspirin with either Vioxx or Celebrex.
At an F.D.A. advisory meeting in February, Dr. Maria Lourdes Villalba, a medical officer at the agency, summed up her analysis of Merck's study, saying that the company had proved that Vioxx, which is known generically as rofecoxib, caused fewer serious ulcers than naproxen. But she said that in her opinion, the potential safety advantage was offset by a higher risk of heart problems.
"Over all, there was no safety superiority of rofecoxib over naproxen," Dr. Villalba concluded, "mainly due to an excess of serious cardiovascular events."
Dr. Villalba said that because there were no studies that proved Merck's theory that naproxen worked like aspirin to decrease heart attacks, the F.D.A. was concerned that the higher rate of heart attacks found with Vioxx might have been caused by the drug's producing blood clots.
Both Merck and Pharmacia say that patients taking either Vioxx or Celebrex and low doses of aspirin will still have fewer ulcers than if they were taking a drug combination like ibuprofen and aspirin.
Dr. G. Steven Geis, Pharmacia's vice president for arthritis and cardiovascular clinical research, said, "We believe that if a patient is on low-dose aspirin and needs a drug for arthritis, celecoxib is a good option."
Celecoxib is the generic name for Celebrex.
Dr. Slater of Merck said, "There is still a tremendous benefit with these drugs." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); ANALGESICS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); GASTROENTEROLOGY (78%); DRUG LABELING (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (73%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) ARTHRITIS AND RHEUMATISM; VIOXX (DRUG); CELEBREX (DRUG); RESEARCH; HEART; LABELING AND LABELS; SALES; NAPROXEN (DRUG); NAPROSYN (DRUG); ALEVE (DRUG); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); PFIZER INC (90%); ARNHOLD & S BLEICHROEDER INC (62%); PHARMACIA CORP (56%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; MERCK & CO; PHARMACIA CORP; PFIZER INC 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



617 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Opponents Criticize $131,000 Cost of Air Trips 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 21 

 BODY:
The state has spent more than $130,000 in the last two years on chartered aircraft to ferry Gov. George E. Pataki to events, and the governor's political opponents are raising questions about the propriety of that spending.
 The state police, who handle the governor's travel, chartered airplanes, mostly jets, for him at least 32 times in 1999 and 2000, for a total of $131,865, according to the governor's aides and invoices filed with the state comptroller's office. 
 Senior aides to the governor said the charters were necessary because the state's two helicopters and two airplanes were either being serviced or engaged with other assignments. The New York Post first reported the extent of the governor's charter flights today. 
Michael McKeon, the governor's chief spokesman, said that in four instances the trips included party fund-raisers along with official events. In those cases, he said, Republican campaign committees reimbursed the state for part of the charter. All told, he said, Friends of Pataki repaid the state $6,241 over the two years, while other Republican committees reimbursed the state $2,915 for the charters. 
Andrew M. Cuomo, the former United States housing secretary who is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, questioned how Mr. Pataki's office decided which events were political and how much campaign committees should kick in. He called on the governor to make public the details of each trip and how the costs were apportioned. 
"You don't run this state on an honor system," Mr. Cuomo said. "We have a series of laws that the Legislature has enacted and there is no law that says whatever the governor wants to do he can do."
There have been questions about Mr. Pataki's use of state aircraft and charters since he took office in 1995 after defeating Mr. Cuomo's father, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. During the campaign, Mr. Pataki denounced the elder Mr. Cuomo for using state aircraft to get to political events and to ferry his family members.
Mr. McKeon said the governor's staff uses a "common sense standard." If most of the events are governmental, the state pays. If most are political, the committees are asked to reimburse part of the cost.
"The governor's use of the aircraft has been to support his efforts to get around the state and do his job as governor," he said. "That's a far cry from the abuses of the Cuomo years, when they used the state aircraft as their personal family fleet."
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, who is also seeking the Democratic nomination for governor, questioned the propriety of the charter flights last year, since some companies were getting a lot of state business without competitive bidding.
In November, Mr. McCall insisted that the state police stop hiring the aircraft every time a need arose and instead make long-term contracts with some of the companies, said Dennis Tompkins, a spokesman for Mr. McCall. No planes have been chartered since then, although the police have submitted eight contracts for review.
Mr. McCall accused Mr. Pataki of doing the same things for which he lambasted Governor Cuomo.
"George Pataki is appearing in government-funded television ads costing millions of dollars, accepting fees for public speeches, not getting a state budget passed on time and spending tens of thousands of state tax dollars to lease airplanes for his travel, all things he criticized the former governor for doing," Mr. McCall said in a statement.
In response, the governor's office late in the day released passenger lists of flights on state aircraft and chartered planes since January 1999. They showed that Mr. Pataki's wife, Libby, flew on state aircraft at least seven times; Mr. McKeon said those trips were all for official appearances as the first lady.
The governor simultaneously put out manifests from two Cuomo years, 1994 and 1987, to prove Cuomo family members sometimes flew alone on state aircraft for no obviously official purpose.
Documents released by the governor's office today showed most of the charter business, about $56,000, went to Richmor Aviation of Hudson, N.Y., while Summit Aviation of East Farmingdale, N.Y., billed about $33,000. A Boston company, Jet Aviation Business Jets Inc., got about $23,000 of the governor's business.
The invoices for the charters submitted to the comptroller's office showed the governor often flew Lear Jets, as well as a Cessna Citation II twin-engine jet. Most of the flights were to upstate cities. In each case, State Police Capt. Ken Rogers decided which company to hire without a competitive bid, which is not required if the contract is worth less than $15,000.
The invoices also show that the charter companies were sometimes asked to bill the Republican Party for half the flight. For instance, on May 15, 2000, the state and the governor's campaign committee evenly split the $7,400 bill. The governor attended a groundbreaking, presented some awards and spoke to a women's group before holding the fund-raiser, his schedules show.
Some of the invoices show evidence Mr. Pataki's staff did try to categorize trips as political or state business. The last charter, on Nov. 1, 2000, was for a flight stopping in Binghamton, Rome and Syracuse, and ending in Albany. 
The governor had five events that day. The first four were a speech to the Syracuse Chamber of Commerce, a ribbon cutting at the Binghamton airport, a press conference about economic development in Rome and one about state money for local roads in Herkimer County. The last was the Herkimer County Republicans' Annual Fall Dinner. 
"Was this state business?" a Pataki aide, Theresa A. Brennan, wrote in a Nov. 15 memo. "Can I get a schedule and quotes? Thanks." Then she added: "Yes." The state paid the $3,645 tab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HELICOPTERS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); FAMILY (71%); ETHICS (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; GOVERNORS (US); ETHICS 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



618 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
Texas Turf Wars

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

DATELINE: WACO, Tex. 

 BODY:
George W. Bush isn't the only guy who fancies himself as a country squire in cowboy country. Outside Waco, where the president has set up his 1,500-acre retreat, land is being scarfed up by wealthy folks from Austin and Fort Worth in search of weekend spreads. The houses are brand new and huge -- McRanchions.
 A little bit farther north lie the dairy farms, which also have been infected with 21st-century gigantism. More than 40,000 cows live and eat and give milk under long metal-roofed sheds. According to the city of Waco, every one of them produces about 100 pounds of manure a day, which is washed away through repeated hosings. The waste and water all flow into . . . 
 COW LAGOONS.
There's something wonderful about a nation that would look at a large body of liquid manure and call it a lagoon. But this is the way the modern livestock industry likes to do business. Many, many animals. Economy of scale. Lakes full of cow goop.
"If we aren't able to expand and grow, we're done," says Donald DeJong, a young family farmer with nearly 2,000 cows.
All this has created a kind of range war, with folks who live downstream pitted against the dairies that are located, unfortunately, smack in the middle of the watershed for the North Bosque River, which empties into Lake Waco, and from there into the taps of area homeowners. Both sides have hired gunslingers, in the form of lobbyists and lawyers and P.R. firms. Waco distributes videocassettes showing poisoned creeks, aggrieved homeowners and dead fish, all of which the city blames on the dairy farms. The farmers have a very energetic trade association that will tell you how the whole problem -- if there really is a problem -- is due to the improperly treated sewage from the city.
"We're a little puzzled about how political this has all become," said Mr. DeJong. Like most of the dairy farmers, he's of Dutch extraction, although one geographically challenged politician I ran into claimed the dairymen were "all from Denmark."
This is a battle that's going on all over the country. People who believed they were living in a bucolic paradise wake up one morning and find that the neighboring farms have turned into Confined Animal Feeding Operations complete with cow or hog lagoons. And since the lagoons can't ever hold all the manure these facilities produce, eventually there are charges that the runoff is polluting the local rivers. Those of us who eat meat or drink milk should at least be paying respectful attention to the fight. 
Unlike most American agriculture, many of the dairy farms outside Waco are owned and run by young couples with children, who work exceedingly hard without a stupendous amount of government subsidy. They're more environmentally conscious than their fathers were, but their farms, because of the size of the herds, are more environmentally dangerous. It's hard to see how they can peacefully coexist with residential communities that are themselves expanding and lusting after golf courses and 6,000-square-foot haciendas.
"The dairy farmers wanted us to bar all construction within two miles of Lake Waco," said Jim Drummond, an intense young state representative from the area. "They wanted to reduce pet density -- a cat abatement zone, I call it. It's not their 42,000 cows, it's my Labrador retriever."
If there's anyplace in the world you'd think a farmer would be able to do pretty much anything he wanted with his land, it'd be Texas. But there's a limit to how much of a sacrifice the non-farming residents are going to be willing to make to let the dairies do their thing. The cats, obviously, are not on the bargaining table. Waco's mayor, Linda Ethridge, says the city is already spending a lot of money improving its own waste treatment system and cleaning up the water that comes down from the dairies.
"We figured out it's about $7 a cow, and it's not our cows," she said.
You, the taxpayer, have also invested in the North Bosque watershed herds in the form of a $6 million federally financed program to compost some of the manure for use along the Texas highways. That would come to about $150 per bovine. You may be gratified to know that these particular cows are said to give excellent milk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); RIVERS (88%); WATER POLLUTION (88%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (76%); FACTORY FARMS (76%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (74%); LOBBYING (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); LAWYERS (65%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (62%) LIVESTOCK; WATER POLLUTION; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) COLLINS, GAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) WACO (TEX); TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



619 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 701 words

PERSON: John J. Egan 

HEADLINE: John J. Egan, Priest and Rights Advocate, Is Dead at 84 

BYLINE:  By PETER STEINFELS 

 BODY:
Msgr. John J. Egan, a Roman Catholic priest in Chicago whose work on issues of civil rights, changing neighborhoods and poverty shaped church efforts in those areas nationally, died on Saturday in Chicago in the rectory of Holy Name Cathedral. He was 84. 
 An influential figure for over four decades in both the religious life and neighborhood politics of Chicago, Monsignor Egan exerted an influence that stretched far beyond that city. 
 His work in the 1960's with Saul Alinsky and Mr. Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation laid the groundwork for what is now a national pattern of community organizing projects based on interfaith coalitions of congregations. 
Ordained a priest in 1943, Monsignor Egan directed the Cana Conference of Chicago from 1947 to 1958. The conference was a ministry to married couples that developed a marriage preparation program, Pre-Cana, that has also been influential nationally.
From 1958 to 1969, Monsignor Egan directed the Chicago Archdiocesan Office of Urban Affairs, where he became deeply engaged in struggles over racial integration and urban renewal. 
In 1965, despite his doctor's orders to avoid stress to a damaged heart, he responded to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s appeal to members of the clergy to march in Selma, Ala. 
He was already known for publicly criticizing the effects of urban renewal projects and public housing on established neighborhoods. He tangled with Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago, challenged the University of Chicago's neighborhood renewal plans and complained of "the dictatorial powers" of urban planners like Robert Moses in New York City. 
Some proponents of urban renewal and integrated housing attacked Monsignor Egan in turn as a self-interested defender of largely white Catholic neighborhoods. Conservatives, including some pastors, recoiled at his working partnership with Mr. Alinsky, a self-styled radical agitator. 
Eventually, Cardinal John Cody disbanded the Office of Urban Affairs in 1969, and Monsignor Egan spent the years from 1970 to 1983 at the University of Notre Dame. There he directed the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, and with Peggy Roach, another veteran of struggles for racial justice, he continued his work of recruiting and advising leaders in community organizations. 
Many of those he influenced called him a "surrogate bishop" for Catholics engaged in social and political struggles. 
Brought back to Chicago in 1983 by Cardinal Joseph Bernardin to direct the archdiocese's Office of Human Relations and Ecumenism, in 1987 Monsignor Egan became head of the Office of Community Affairs at DePaul University in Chicago, a position he held until his death. 
John McGreevy, a historian at Notre Dame and the author of "Parish Boundaries" (University of Chicago Press, 1996), a prize-winning study of the Catholic Church's handling of racial issues in Northern cities, compared Monsignor Egan to "the classic parish priests early in the century who were great politically skilled organizers." But Monsignor Egan, Professor McGreevy said, "made the transition to organizing outside the church as well as within it." 
Monsignor Egan did not shy from internal church controversies. In the 1960's he led a group of reform-minded priests in Chicago, and recalled painfully a single year in Cardinal Cody's tenure when no fewer than 45 priests came to tell him about their decisions to leave the priesthood. 
A month ago, he circulated for publication a plea for the church to ordain women and married men and give women leading roles in the Vatican. 
"Why are we not using to the fullest the gifts and talents of women who constitute the majority of our membership throughout the world?" he wrote. "I realize that even to raise aspects of this question, I label myself a dissenter. Yet prayerful, responsible dissent has always played a role in the church." 
Despite his deep identification with Chicago, Monsignor Egan was born in Manhattan, on 134th Street in what was then an Irish section of Harlem. His father, a bus driver, and his mother, a dressmaker, were immigrants from Ireland, and moved to Chicago when John was 6. 
He is survived by a sister, Kathleen Egan Martin of Rockford, Ill. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Msgr. John J. Egan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLITICS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); MARRIAGE (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); HISTORY (62%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (78%) EGAN, JOHN J (MSGR); STEINFELS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) CHICAGO (ILL)

CATEGORY: Religion 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



620 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 472 words

PERSON: Robert F. Woodward 

HEADLINE: Robert F. Woodward, 92; Was Envoy to Latin America 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
Robert Forbes Woodward, a career foreign service officer and Latin America expert who left an imprint on American policy from Cuba to Argentina, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92.
 Mr. Woodward, who was ambassador to three Latin American countries and Spain before becoming a senior State Department policy maker, helped implement the Kennedy administration's Alliance for Progress, an aid program to spur development in Latin America. 
 Mr. Woodward was an early advocate for such assistance and some colleagues recalled his pressing Washington for more support to the nations of Latin America and promoting the Inter-American Development Bank -- which was established in 1960 -- as a powerful engine for economic growth.
Known as a steady but self-effacing diplomat, Mr. Woodward had served as the American ambassador to Chile for just seven weeks when he became assistant secretary of state for Latin America in 1961. 
Various diplomats had refused the post, worried that they might be undercut by close advisers to President Kennedy, like Richard N. Goodwin and Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., who had their own assignments to recast American relations in the hemisphere.
But Mr. Woodward took the position, just two months after the disastrous American-backed invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs. He soon became entangled in the dictates and secret missions involving the White House advisers, according to George Landau, a longtime friend and former American ambassador to Chile.
"He was a model diplomat," Mr. Landau said. "But he was too nice. He never said 'no.' "
Still, as assistant secretary, Mr. Woodward led the successful effort to suspend Cuba's membership in the Organization of American States as Fidel Castro consolidated his power. He also helped organize the founding meeting of the Alliance for Progress, which aimed in part to dissuade Latin Americans from socialism and revolution.
After eight months in the job, Mr. Woodward became ambassador to Spain. There, he renegotiated pacts for the United States to maintain a submarine base at Rota, Spain, as well as three air bases. 
Born in Minneapolis in 1908, he graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1930 and joined the foreign service a year later. He married Virginia Parker Cooke of Washington, in Lima, Peru, in 1943. She died in 1990.
His 37-year career sent him to virtually every corner of the Americas. He served in consular and embassy posts in Canada, Argentina, Paraguay, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia, Guatemala, and Cuba, in addition to Stockholm. He was appointed ambassador to Costa Rica in 1954, ambassador to Uruguay in 1958 and ambassador to Chile in 1961.
Mr. Woodward is survived by their two children, Robert Forbes Woodward Jr. of Boyds, Md., and Mary Woodward Truland of Germantown, Md.; and two sisters and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert F. Woodward, in 1962 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ACCIDENTAL DEATH & DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INSURANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (71%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (71%) SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE; SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS; 

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%) WOODWARD, ROBERT F; MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); CHILE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CANADA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



621 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Moving a Border to Wed Rich and Poor Towns 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WENDOVER, Utah, May 20 

 BODY:
They sit side by side at the edge of the Bonneville Salt Flats and the old Wendover Airfield, once home to the Enola Gay. But as neighboring towns on the border of northern Utah and Nevada, they could not be more different.
 To the west of the border, West Wendover, Nev., has become latter-day West Berlin, a tourist town of 5,000 with flashing lights, a thriving nightlife and the constant drone of slot machines. On this side, Wendover, Utah, is the East Berlin equivalent, a sleepy hollow of 1,500, faded, crumbling and sad. 
 Soon, however, the differences may melt away. Officials from both towns are considering an unusual merger that would redraw the Nevada border, looping it around Wendover, Utah, to bring both Wendovers together inside Elko County, an annexation that could shrink Utah by up to 15 square miles. 
"The Berlin Wall up there has got to go," said Mayor Stephen B. Perry of Wendover, sitting in the small hotel he owns on Wendover Boulevard, which has a painted line across it, marking the border. "Germany took care of theirs, and it was physical. Ours, we just have to strike a line on the road."
Merging the Wendovers is an idea that officials in both states have kicked around for years but never acted on. Now, with Wendover approaching insolvency and with Utah state officials willing to relieve themselves of the financial burden, the issue has gained enough momentum to bring the Wendovers together. 
The mayors of both towns support a merger. So do state lawmakers from the surrounding counties. And now, members of Congress from both sides, Representatives James V. Hansen of Utah and Jim Gibbons of Nevada, both Republicans, are supporting the idea, the clearest sign yet that political stars are properly aligned for the merger to happen.
It is a somewhat complicated process. The towns have to agree on what land Nevada gets. Then the deal goes before both state legislatures for approval and after that to Congress, which must ratify any border changes between the states. Last week in Washington, the two congressmen met with representatives from both towns and urged them to negotiate a deal.
Michael Dunn, an aide to Mr. Hansen, said the process could be completed within three years.
Border changes are not uncommon among states but most in recent years have involved disagreements and lengthy court challenges. It took a Supreme Court decision in 1998 to settle a 160-year-old dispute between New York and New Jersey over the ownership of Ellis Island, 90 percent of which is now New Jersey's.
Most other cases have involved fixing borders over bits of shifting land in rivers. The most recent dispute involving land only was resolved last year when Virginia and West Virginia agreed on a 20-mile stretch of their northern border in the Blue Ridge Mountains that had long been uncertain. 
The effort here is unusual because both sides have agreed from the beginning on what should be done, and it is not hard to see why.
In recent decades, casino gambling has spurred steady growth on the Nevada side, with new casinos and hotels pushing the West Wendover population to several thousand by 1990. A year later, residents voted to incorporate, and since then the town can barely keep up with the annual 10 percent population growth rate. In addition, the growing population of Salt Like City, 120 miles due east, has been a boon to West Wendover, providing a steady flow of people looking to gamble. 
Subdivisions of affordable single-family homes are springing up. Small businesses are opening. "Our schools are bursting at the seams," Mayor Reese F. Melville said of West Wendover's two public schools. 
The trends are just the opposite on the Utah side. Founded in 1907 as a railroad water stop, Wendover sprang to life with potash mining and later, the air base, which swelled the population by 20,000 during World War II. Soon after the war, as West Wendover grew into a tourist attraction, residents from the Utah side began moving over, drawn by casino jobs and Nevada's lower taxes. Unlike Utah, where gaming is not permitted, Nevada has no state income or corporate taxes.
These days, a majority of Wend over residents still work in the casinos. But with housing costs higher on the Nevada side, a growing majority, perhaps 60 percent, are Hispanics who are eager to work in low-level jobs at the casinos. In general, they live in the trailer homes, many of them dilapidated, that line unpaved streets near the flats.
"We've got more poverty, that's for sure," said Howard Anderson, a retired potash miner who lives in Wendover. "So over all, it's probably a good idea the towns come together."
The two mayors said a merger could bring Wendover the kind of improvements that would make it indistinguishable from its western neighbor, including better roads, new housing developments and casinos -- not to mention the crimes that grow up around gambling. Both towns would also save money by combining their schools and their police and fire departments. 
But several imposing obstacles could block unification efforts, including the recent debt incurred by Wendover. The town is now about $13 million in debt, Mayor Perry said -- $8 million for a new elementary school and about $5 million for improvements to the municipal airport, which Tooele County recently took over because Wendover could not afford the payments. 
West Wendover is reluctant to assume its neighbor's burden. "We just can't take on any more debt," said Mayor Melville, whose term expires this year. "The only way this can happen is if, bottom line, that debt is transferred somewhere else. That's the hard part. Otherwise, it doesn't happen." State and town officials said it was not yet clear whether annexation would include the airport.
Equally threatening is opposition from West Wendover's casino owners, who fear that a merger would attract new operations that would cut into the profits of the town's five big casinos. Currently, West Wendover derives almost one-fifth of its $5 million budget from gaming, Mayor Melville said.
Michael W. Devine, chairman of the West Wendover Resort Association and chief executive of the State Line and Silver Smith casinos, two of the town's largest, said the owners preferred an alternative plan in which Wendover stayed in Utah, and leaders on both sides devised an economic renewal program for the Utah side that would include the development of 1.5 million square feet of commercial space the State Line owns just over the line in Utah.
Among the residents of both towns, those on the Utah side have warmed to the idea of annexation more than their neighbors to the west, where the popularity of the casinos virtually assures them of growth and economic stability. Even so, state lawmakers from the adjoining counties in Nevada and Utah, Senator Dean A. Rhoads of Elko and Senator Ron Allen of Tooele, said they believed that town leaders would adopt a plan and that their legislatures would approve it. 
"I think we'd look on the merger favorably," Mr. Rhoads said. "I just wonder about Utah's willingness to give away part of their state. I'd be apprehensive if we were giving away part of Nevada."
To Mr. Allen, it is not such a mystery why. "Wendover has been a red ink village for the state of Utah for years," he said. "So to us, the idea isn't so remote."

GRAPHIC: Photos: West Wendover, Nev., its casinos aglitter, and Wendover, Utah, its trailer homes dark, plan to merge. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A1); A giant neon cowboy advertising a nearby Nevada casino looms over a trailer park in Wendover, Utah. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GAMING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); MOUNTAINS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); APPEALS (50%) GAMBLING; CASINOS; BANKRUPTCIES 

PERSON: JIM GIBBONS (89%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; HANSEN, JAMES V (REPR); GIBBONS, JIM (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) NEVADA, USA (99%); UTAH, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (92%) UTAH; WENDOVER (UTAH); WEST WENDOVER (NEV); NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



622 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Four Viewpoints On Tax Cut Bill 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Senate speeches yesterday on the tax bill, as recorded by The New York Times:

CHARLES GRASSLEY
Republican of Iowa
 We have had people tell us that we cannot rely on projected surpluses to pay for our tax cuts. However, the biggest threat to fiscal discipline is higher spending, not lower taxes. In 1997 Congress and the president agreed to cap discretionary spending in an effort to balance the federal budget. Unfortunately, as federal revenues rose to record levels and our deficits turned into surpluses, these spending caps were broken. Since 1997, discretionary spending has exceeded the budget caps by $272 billion. 

MAX BAUCUS
Democrat of Montana
There really are two choices. One is to vote against the bill because the tax cut is just too large. That's a view which I respect. But the other is to vote for it because it is a lot better than what we otherwise would be facing here on the floor. It is much more progressive. There are many very good provisions of this bill. The education provisions, for example, or the 10 percent bracket, which is made retroactive to the beginning of this year. It is much better than the bill we'd otherwise have. The single biggest part of this tax cut is the 435 billion provision that provides for a cut from the 15 percent rate to the 10 percent rate. That's the biggest single provision of this bill. As a consequence, 75 percent of this tax cut in this bill goes to people who earn $75,000 or less.

JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN
Democrat of Connecticut
 I've been thinking of the bill, Madam President, in nutritional terms lately. You know the old line, "you can have too much of a good thing?" You can eat too much of a good thing, like ice cream for instance, and it ultimately is not good for your system. We strive for a balanced diet. This is an imbalanced budget proposal. Tax cuts are a good thing, but our economy can have too much of them and that's exactly what this bill does. It leaves out business tax incentives, growth incentives, and it leaves out the kind of genuine short-term fiscal stimulus that our uncertain economy needs.

KENT CONRAD
Democrat of North Dakota
Go back to the time of the Reagan administration, where we saw a proposal for a massive tax cut, a massive defense buildup, and an overall package that did not add up. The results were to absolutely explode the budget deficit of the United States. We went from an $80 billion deficit up to over $200 billion. We quadrupled the national debt. Then President Bush came in and the deficits doubled again to nearly $290 billion. It was not until 1993, when we put in place a plan that actually raised income taxes on the wealthiest 1 percent, cut spending, that we were able to get on a path of fiscal responsibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); NUTRITION (63%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MAX BAUCUS (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BAUCUS, MAX (SEN); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); CONRAD, KENT (SEN); GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



623 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: As a Huge Tax Cut Heads Toward Passage, Senators Reprise Their Familiar Refrains 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
As the $1.35 trillion tax cut headed toward passage in the Senate, moving President Bush a step closer to victory on the centerpiece of his economic agenda, the now familiar debate between the parties gave way occasionally today to moments of feeling, if not passion.
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, asked his party and his president why they were rushing through a big tax cut before they determined how much money the nation needed to strengthen the military. 
 "We are about to enact one of the most massive tax cuts in memory or history, and we do not have any idea how much money is going to be devoted to defense spending and how much is going to be left over for it," Mr. McCain said. 
Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, who anchored the debate in favor of the bill for the Republican leadership, at times portrayed the vote almost as one between right and wrong. At one point, in an exchange over the fairness of repealing the estate tax, as Republicans want to do, he suggested in almost sermon-like terms that the tax code should not penalize the thrifty and reward those with holes in their pockets.
"This person over here is going to live very moderately and miserly, maybe leave a $5 million estate, and when he dies he's going to pay a great reward for living miserly to the federal treasury," Mr. Grassley said.
"You've got another person over here, living it up throughout his life, womanizing, drinking it up, all the things that are dealt with in the material world," he said. 
The profligate man, Mr. Grassley said, gets taxed only once, when he earns the money, while the thrifty man who saves his money so he can pass it to his children will die knowing that his money is going to be taxed again.
"What's fair about that?" Mr. Grassley asked.
The arguments in the Senate today have been heard in one form or another in Congress as long as Republicans and Democrats have sparred over tax cuts: rich versus poor, government versus individual, economic medicine versus fiscal poison.
After last year's presidential campaign and months of wrangling in Congress this year about how to use the projected federal surplus, the two sides had honed those arguments, mixing an array of numbers with their own versions of moral and political imperatives. And much of the debate on the tax-cut bill and its proposed amendments had a dutiful ring, with both sides knowing they were going through the motions because the outcome was all but certain.
Still, both parties knew the stakes were high, with Congress on the verge of committing much of the surplus to tax cuts far into the future.
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, said the tax cut would endanger the nation's ability in coming decades to meet the increasing costs of Social Security and Medicare; lessen the chance that the government could pay its debt; and restrict Washington's ability to improve roads, education and health care and aid farmers.
"I submit that the day this tax cut is enacted will be remembered as a black day in our history," Mr. Byrd said.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, attacked two provisions of the bill as giveaways to the wealthy at the expense of more pressing needs. Mr. Dodd said the top income tax rate should be cut to only about 38 percent, from 39.6 percent, instead of to 36 percent, as the bill calls for. The estate tax should be reduced, he said, but not eliminated. The bill would repeal the tax in 2011.
The money saved by rewriting the bill as he suggested should go to pay more of the national debt and for public services, he said.
"Pick up any paper in America and you'll read about the gas main, the water main, the sewage main that's burst or broken," Mr. Dodd said. "Schools are literally falling apart. Can we not modify this tax cut by a modest amount to reduce the debt and invest in the infrastructure needs of America?" 
Mr. Grassley responded that without a big tax cut, federal spending would grow out of control, leaving the country with a weaker economy and a bloated government.
"The biggest threat to fiscal discipline is higher spending, not lower taxes," Mr. Grassley said.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, said the tax bill did not live up to its billing as an economic stimulus package to ward off a recession.
"Tax cuts are a good thing, but our economy can have too much of them, and that's exactly what this bill does," Mr. Lieberman said. "It leaves out business tax incentives, growth incentives, and it leaves out the kind of genuine short-term fiscal stimulus that our uncertain economy needs today."
Many Democrats said the bill remained too tilted to the rich, even after changes to Mr. Bush's original plan, which would have provided less to families with low and moderate incomes than the Senate version would provide.
But one of the few Democrats who support the bill, Senator Max Baucus of Montana, who faces a tough re-election fight next year in an increasingly conservative state, said the Senate plan was the most palatable option on the table.
"I think this is a much better bill than that proposed by the administration," Mr. Baucus said. "I'm concerned about the size of this tax cut as well. But given the budget resolution providing for $1.35 trillion over 11 years, I think this is a much better bill than we would have had if Senator Grassley and I had not been negotiating to get a compromise."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Max Baucus, left, of Montana, and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, chairman of the Finance Committee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); ESTATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



624 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Welfare's Next Phase 

 BODY:
For Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, dramatically reducing the number of people on New York City's welfare rolls has been one of his proudest achievements. For many former welfare clients who have finally become self-sufficient, earning a paycheck has brought personal pride. But for many others who still need public assistance, the end of a five-year lifetime limit on federal welfare support is now looming, effective at the end of the year. This transition would be hard enough under any circumstances, but it will be especially hard if the city and state fail to provide the support already promised. 
 New York State's Constitution requires the state to provide "aid, care and support of the needy," so Gov. George Pataki and the Legislature have committed funds to support needy people who reach the federal deadline and have not found jobs or are unemployable. The state plan doles out very little cash. Instead it will pay rent, utilities and other costs, either directly or through a debit card. 
 Until recently, most advocates thought that the shift from federal to state care in New York would be virtually automatic. But Mayor Giuliani's welfare team has announced plans to begin calling in federal recipients to apply again for state aid and undergo individual assessments of their progress toward self-sufficiency. Assessments can be valuable if they help people find jobs, but these assessments should be done without forcing all welfare recipients to undergo another complicated application process that is sure to deprive many who need assistance of the state aid to which they are entitled.
The city's attempts to begin reassessing the 39,000 individuals facing a shutdown of federal funds this year come at the same time that the state has moved too slowly to spend federal block grants that are designed to help welfare recipients move off the rolls and to assist the working poor. Those grants pay for such items as transportation, child care and job training to help recipients get and hold jobs. Governor Pataki's administration has had understandable start-up difficulties given the size and complexity of the welfare system. But any unspent federal funds will send a signal to Congress that it can shrink New York's portion of the next welfare allotment at a time when the poor and working poor need more support in this state.
As the economy slows and the federal welfare deadline approaches, leaders in Albany and New York City should make certain that they are helping people get jobs, not simply driving them off the welfare rolls. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GOVERNORS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%) WELFARE (US); EDITORIALS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



625 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: SENATE DEFLECTS NUMEROUS EFFORTS TO ALTER TAX BILL 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 21 

 BODY:
With Republicans united, the Senate tonight rejected one attempt after another to change a bill that would give President Bush his top legislative priority, the first big tax cut in 20 years.
 The solid Republican support seemed to assure the bill's approval, but at midnight, the Senate still faced votes on dozens of possible amendments, and further votes were put off until Tuesday. A conference committee could begin as soon as the bill is passed to work out the differences between this bill and tax legislation passed by the House of Representatives. 
 The Republicans' goal is to have a bill ready for the president to sign into law by the end of the week.
"This is the week that President Bush's proposal will become law," said Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. "I really do believe that by Friday we will have tax legislation." 
Under the Senate bill, most people who pay income taxes would have their taxes cut this year by $300 -- $600 for a couple -- and families with children at home would get an even larger reduction.
Beginning next year, tax rates would be reduced in stages, and by 2007, the top rate would be lowered to 36 percent from the current 39.6 percent. President Bush proposed that the top rate be 33 percent, and the House went along with that.
The Senate tax cut measure, which would reduce taxes by $1.35 trillion over 11 years, would be the largest enacted since 1981, Ronald Reagan's first year as president. 
"The great winner of the tax relief act is the American people," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee.
Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant Republican leader, took issue with those who maintained the country could not afford to lose so much revenue. "It's a very timid package," Mr. Nickles said. "It's about one-fourth of the surplus."
But many Democrats contended the bill was too heavily tilted toward tax breaks for the wealthy, would bring back an era of budget deficits and would drain money needed to pay Social Security and Medicare benefits to baby boomers when they retired.
"Shame on us, shame on us for pushing this debt onto our kids," declared Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota.
By restricting the amount of money the government will have to spend, the measure will frame federal policies for years. But despite the importance of the legislation, the debate in the Senate today was remarkably spiritless.
Under procedures adopted unanimously last week, senators began early this morning to offer and discuss amendments. Mostly, they delivered monologues. Rarely were more than two or three other senators in their seats. All votes were postponed until 6 p.m., and then the many amendments were voted on one after another, pushing the session late into the night.
Democratic proposals included shifting more of the tax relief to lower-income taxpayers, retaining the tax on large estates, narrowing the tax reduction so more money would be available for debt reduction and delaying tax cuts until a prescription drug benefit under Medicare was enacted.
A central Democratic amendment to lower the 15 percent tax bracket to 14 percent was rejected, 50 to 48. Two Democrats, Zell Miller of Georgia and Max Baucus of Montana, voted against the proposal. One Republican, John McCain of Arizona, voted for it.
Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, was absent, attending a graduation. As a matter of senatorial courtesy, Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, who stood on the opposite side of the legislation, had agreed in advance to withhold his vote so the outcome could not be affected by Mr. Stevens's absence.
One Republican amendment proposed lowering the capital gains tax, while another sought to extend the business tax credit for research and development.
A bipartisan group proposed allowing the tax reductions to go into effect each year only if specific debt-reduction goals were met.
But it was clear from the outset that all these amendments would be rejected, and that, perhaps, explained why the debate on them lacked passion.
Normally, at the end of debates on important bills, the party leaders give stirring speeches summing up the arguments. But tonight, the Republican leader, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, made a perfunctory statement, saying only that the bill was a "very significant tax relief act for working Americans."
Democratic leaders left the closing statement to Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey, a freshman. 
"I think we are far overreaching relative to our financial situation," Mr. Corzine said. "It will potentially bring grave concern to marketplaces around the world."
The heart of the legislation would be an across-the-board reduction in income tax rates beginning this year with a lowering of the bottom rate to 10 percent from 15 percent on the first $6,000 for every individual and the first $12,000 for every couple.
Beginning next year, in addition to the reduction in the top tax rate, the other tax brackets above 15 percent would be reduced by 3 percentage points each.
Other important provisions would raise the tax credit for children, now $500 per child, to $1,000, lower taxes for married couples, increase the size of estates exempt from taxation and repeal the estate tax entirely in 2011 and allow deduction of up to $5,000 for college tuition payments.
The bill would also increase the amount of income exempt from the alternative minimum tax and give more favorable tax treatment to pension and retirement programs.
The bill is somewhat more favorable to taxpayers of modest means than the plan President Bush proposed or the measures passed by the House. One provision would allow low-income families to receive a cash payment if they did not earn enough to be able to claim a full tax credit for their children.
But the bulk of the tax savings would still go to the wealthiest. These people pay most of the taxes, and they are the only ones whose taxes were increased in the 1990's.
A study by Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research institute that has the only computer model in private hands capable of making such calculations, showed that the richest 1 percent of taxpayers, with incomes over about $375,000, would get 33 percent of the tax benefits and that the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers would get 15 percent of the benefits.
The Senate bill differs only on the margins from what the president proposed and what the House passed. The biggest difficulty in the conference committee is likely to be what to remove from the House bills so that the entire legislation fits into the $1.35 trillion allotted by the budget plan adopted two weeks ago.
In theory, senators and representatives in conferences are supposed to defend the measures their chamber approved. But that does not always happen, and Senator Lott, who will probably be a conferee, suggested at a news conference this morning that he leaned favorably toward what the House passed. 
"I would like to see some changes from the Senate position," he said.
On the other hand, Senators Grassley and Baucus put the House on notice that if the bill approved by the conference strayed too far from what the Senate passed, there was a risk that the moderate Democrats and Republicans who hold the balance of power in the Senate might vote against the final package and cause its defeat.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Senate's Version of the Tax Cut"The Senate tax bill would reduce taxes by $1.35 trillion from this year through 2011. It must be reconciled with somewhat different tax-cutting legislation passed by the House. The Senate bill's main provisions include the following: ECONOMIC STIMULUS: Allocates $100 billion for tax cuts this year and next year to give a boost to the flagging economy by putting more money in the pockets of consumers. The bill would give single people a tax cut of up to $300 this year, with married couples getting up to $600. REDUCING RATES: Would gradually cut personal income tax rates over the next five years. The top rate of 39.6 percent would fall in steps to 36 percent by 2007; the current 36 percent rate would decline to 33 percent; the 31 percent rate would be cut to 28 percent; the 28 percent rate would fall to 25 percent; would create a new 10 percent rate below the existing 15 percent. CHILD CREDIT: Would gradually double the child credit, to $1,000 from $500, over 10 years. Would allow workers with no federal income tax liability to claim part of the credit to help low-income working families. MARRIAGE PENALTY: Would help two-income couples by addressing the quirk in the tax code that creates a bigger tax bill for many people who file joint returns, but not until 2006. Starting then, it would gradually raise deductions and adjust the 15 percent bracket to deal with the problem. ESTATE TAX: Would gradually reduce estate tax rates and increase the amount of an estate's value exempt from federal taxation and then would repeal the tax entirely starting in 2011. OTHER PROVISIONS: Would increase the level of allowable contributions to retirement savings programs, and would allow deductions for college tuition, though this would be rescinded in 2006. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); FAMILY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); MEDICARE (60%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); KENT CONRAD (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001 



626 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 31 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO DROPS. The euro fell again after German business confidence declined more than expected in April. In New York, the euro settled at 86.53 cents, down from 87.69 cents on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



627 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Staples Posts Flat Earnings; Plans Curbed 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Staples Inc., the office products retailer, said yesterday that its first-quarter profit was flat and forecast no earnings growth in the second quarter as it scaled back expansion in the United States to control costs.
 For the quarter that ended May 5, Staples said its net income was $39.5 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with profit from operations of $39.9 million, or 9 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 The results matched analysts' expectations, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
First-quarter sales rose 4 percent, to $2.67 billion from $2.56 billion, while sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent.
In the quarter a year earlier, Staples had a gain of $4.3 million, or 1 cent a share, for the reversal of an earlier store-closing charge. That resulted in net income of $44.2 million, or 10 cents a share.
Staples said revenue at its e-commerce operations, Staples.com, rose 182 percent, to $213 million, in the first quarter and, for the first time, achieved an operating profit before corporate allocated general and administrative expenses.
Although the company, based in Framingham, Mass., said it expected second-quarter and full-year earnings to be in line with analysts' expectations, it said it was planning more conservatively for the remainder of the year, given the current state of the economy. Staples said it had further reduced its store expansion plans in the United States for the year and now expected to add only 100 stores, 10 fewer than originally planned.
Shares of Staples rose 79 cents, to $16.31.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (53%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: STAPLES INC (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: STAPLES INC 

TICKER: SPLS (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (93%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (93%) SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES; SIC5999 OTHER MISC. RETAIL STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



628 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate; 
Asking Rents for Stores Stay Level in Manhattan

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
The rents that landlords are seeking for stores held steady in Manhattan, and increased in some districts, despite a weakening national economy, according to a survey of space availability and asking rents focusing on September 2000 and March 2001.
 The survey, by the Real Estate Board of New York, is the second conducted by the trade group and is intended to determine retail rental rates, which vary widely within the city. 
 Most of the larger brokerage companies keep elaborate statistics on the office space market, but statistics on stores have been less widely available and actual rental levels are the subject of speculation by both landlords and prospective tenants.
Brokers said the city remained an attractive location for foreign-based retailers to establish a brand image or a new store format because of the city's large number of visitors. But others say that the slowing economy is making some retailers more cautious and that they are not jumping into deals as they would have six months ago. 
"Retailers are willing to pay fair prices for expansion space," said Alan Victor, an executive vice president of the Lansco Corporation, a real estate brokerage. "But the auctions we saw in the past are just that, a thing of the past."
The data for the board's report was submitted by 15 brokerage companies and covers 1,860 store spaces available March 31 with 10.6 million square feet. Average asking rentals increased slightly from last Sept. 30 to $98 a square foot annually from $96.
But the number of stores available for rent declined from the 2,010 last Sept. 30, and the average size of stores for rent went down from 6,236 square feet at that time to 5,715 square feet at the end of March.
Retail rents tend to be higher in small but well-located spaces. The average annual asking rent for stores of less than 1,000 square feet increased to $149 a square foot from $119, while the rental rate for stores of more than 10,000 square feet declined, to $78 a square foot from $84.
The costliest retail locations remain where they have long been: along Fifth Avenue in the 50's, 57th Street between Fifth and Park Avenues, and Madison Avenue between 57th and 67th Streets. But even there, some adjustments have taken place.
The highest asking rent along Fifth Avenue between 50th and 59th Streets declined to $896 a square foot this spring from $1,100. But the top asking rent along 57th Street between Fifth and Park Avenues increased to $833 a square foot from $800 last fall. The upper end of the market along Madison Avenue increased as well, to $850 a square foot from $800.
Not all space rents at the peak level, of course, but the average rental levels along these premier shopping areas show why many of these stores are selling luxury goods, which have higher profit margins. The average asking rent along the key section of Madison Avenue was $575 a square foot this spring, up from $493.
On Fifth Avenue in the 50's, the average rate was $733 a square foot, up from $713, while on the 57th Street strip, the average asking rent was $579 a square foot, up slightly from the fall average of $574.
Some locations in changing neighborhoods, notably near Times Square, have undergone substantial changes. Space on 42nd Street between Sixth and Eighth Avenues can still be rented for as little as $75 a square foot, but the most desirable spaces on the street are now at $632 a square foot, up from $375 in the fall.
Retail rental rates in more residential neighborhoods tend to be considerably less expensive than along the glamour strips, because the stores' customers are largely New Yorkers instead of high-spending tourists. The average asking rent on Third Avenue between 60th and 72nd Streets, for instance, was $198 a square foot, up from $186.
On the West Side, the asking rents for stores on Broadway between 72nd and 86th Streets were an average of $205 a square foot, unchanged from last fall.
Two shopping areas south of Midtown reported opposite results. On Fifth Avenue between 14th and 23rd Streets in the Flatiron District, average asking rents fell to $167 a square foot from $171 last fall. But in booming SoHo, asking rents on Broadway between Houston to Broome Streets increased to an average of $145 a square foot from $129 last fall.
A large part of the retail space that is available in Manhattan is in Midtown, which is defined as 31st Street to 59th Street, river to river. There was about 4.4 million square feet on the market in March, down from 5.2 million square feet last fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); BRANDING (71%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



629 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Web Sites Inconsistent On Health, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
A new study has found that most of the time, health information on the Internet is hard to find, hard to read and often incorrect or incomplete, even on the best sites.
 The study, described in today's Journal of the American Medical Association, is the broadest on the topic to date; it includes detailed questions on four diseases, rates the difficulty of finding information and the site's reading level, and assesses its accuracy and completeness. The study includes Spanish-language sites. 
 "If you are looking for information on breast cancer, for example, and you search the Internet, how easy is it to find a good place for it?" said the study's lead author, Dr. Gretchen K. Berland of the RAND Corporation, the nonprofit research organization that conducted the study. "And if you land on a site, what will you find when you get there?" 
"For the most part, people will be frustrated, especially if they are among the underserved populations," Dr. Berland said in a telephone interview.
The study found that "accessing health information using search engines and simple search terms is not efficient" and that sites did not reliably include important information on health problems.
The study was sponsored by a philanthropic group, the California Health Care Foundation, and carried out by researchers affiliated with RAND. 
The study showed that government and university sites did better than commercial ones, and it concluded that the Internet had the potential "to be a powerful resource for meeting some of the public's health information needs." But, it went on, "this requires Web sites that present well-organized and accurate information in a way that is understandable."
Dr. James D. Metz, editor in chief of the nonprofit Oncolink site that offers information on cancer and scored among the highest of the 25 sites reviewed, said it was difficult to maintain high-quality information on the site.
"Our content is totally written by physicians, nurses and social workers in their fields of expertise," Dr. Metz said. "Very few sites do that."
"Too many sites are just trying to sell something," he said, "and it is scary how they can make a bad site look good." 
The study involved Internet information on breast cancer, childhood asthma, depression and obesity. Using a combined measure of completeness and accuracy, the study found that on 18 English language sites, on average the sites offered complete and correct information on breast cancer 63 percent of the time; on childhood asthma, 36 percent of the time; on depression 44 percent; and on obesity, 37 percent.
The study found that consumers face trouble first in just finding sites with substantial information. Only one in five promising links actually turned up pages with substantial content, it said. Researchers found the reading level of the English sites was above the level of a freshman in college, which is higher than average American reading levels. Spanish sites in the study averaged 10th-grade level. 
But most notable was the study's review of the quality of information offered by health Web sites.
The study involved the six top-rated general health sites, and 12 sites dedicated to specific diseases. Expert panels of physicians and patient advocates selected questions that patients often asked on each subject.
Then, site searchers were trained to scour each Web site for information on a topic. The searchers were given 90 minutes to two hours, more than three times the amount of time consumers report spending when they look for medical information.
Finally, all the information found on each site was collected into notebooks and turned over to a second set of experts, who would score the material for completeness and accuracy. 
Completeness was measured by counting how often central questions were covered in some detail. Accuracy was measured by comparing the judgment of several panels of experts with what was found on the site.
Even though the study reviewed only top-rated sites, researchers still found that the sites gave complete and accurate information only 45 percent of the time, on average. 
On average, reviewers found that Web sites had some information that contradicted other information on the same site and the same topic 53 percent of the time. There was wide variation in whether sources for posted information were given. On average, 65 percent of the sites gave both pieces of source information -- authors and a date -- but the spread was large, from none to 95 percent across the Web sites. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEHEALTH (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CANCER (89%); BREAST CANCER (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OBESITY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); SEARCH ENGINES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WRITERS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); ASTHMA (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (58%) RAND CORP; CALIFORNIA HEALTHCARE FOUNDATION 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; BERLAND, GRETCHEN K (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



630 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Graduates Ask, 'What Now?' 

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

 BODY:
As an undergraduate at the University of Virginia here for the last four years, Rasha Shaath, a Palestinian, learned Hebrew. She thrived in classes that made her examine her views and the troubles of her region from many angles. 
 This summer, Ms. Shaath, 22, will move to her family's new home in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, where she will don the abayya, the Saudis' mandatory covering for women, and look for work, probably as a reporter. Ms. Shaath frets less about the veil than about landing a newspaper job in a country where men and women cannot work together. She fears, on some level, the loss of the person she has become here. 
 "I worry about not having the kind of interaction that will allow me to remember what I gained in my education and use it," said Ms. Shaath, who completed a bachelor's degree in history and Middle Eastern studies. 
She worries, too, that the critical reflexes she sharpened here may be misinterpreted as disloyalty back home. "That can get dangerous, if I allow myself to become too much of an outsider," Ms. Shaath said. 
At campuses across the United States, foreign students like Ms. Shaath are facing commencement not only as a new beginning but also with anxiety, tension and divided loyalties. Families in home countries beckon, while graduates juggle questions that their American classmates need never consider: Will the distant, perhaps less developed, economy they left have a place for them? How will they adapt after immersion in American college life? Is it safe to go home? Are they ready? 
The share of American undergraduate freshmen who are nonresident foreigners has tripled over the last 30 years, according to the annual freshman survey by the University of California at Los Angeles. The Institute of International Education estimates that students from abroad now represent 515,000 of the 14.5 million students attending institutions of higher education in the United States, an increase of nearly 5 percent over the last year alone. More than half the foreign students come from Asia; most earn degrees for careers in business, engineering and computer science. 
After spending the four years of transition to early adulthood away from their countries, with finances often limiting visits back, graduates can have trouble feeling at home anywhere, said Kathy Bellows, who oversees international students and scholars at Georgetown University. Graduation from college shakes an international student's sense of identity and place, Ms. Bellows said.
Though foreigners are courted by universities eager to broaden their profiles -- and for the full, out-of-state tuition they typically fork over -- the welcome mat often frays when they turn to the United States' job market as graduates. In order to extend their student visas for a year of "practical experience," foreigners must get a job in their field of study, and some companies flatly refuse their resumes. The graduates who hope to settle here permanently try to gauge a prospective employer's willingness to sponsor them for a long-term work visa. 
As a result, such students cannot take time off to explore the United States or relax after four years of college, said Kath-Ann Gerhardt, associate dean of international students and scholars at the University of California at Davis.
"Your final year as an undergraduate can be very stressful," Ms. Gerhardt said, "but it's an additional layer of concern that international students face."
Jelena Bosanoc of Belgrade felt the constraints of her situation most keenly in early May. On the day her parents were to leave Belgrade for Budapest, the nearest American embassy that would give them a visa to attend her graduation, her father suffered a fatal stroke. 
While her classmates planned extended post-graduation travels, Ms. Bosanoc, a Georgetown University senior, could not go home for her father's funeral. Her student visa would have expired in her absence, and her work visa for her new job at Goldman, Sachs was not yet done.
"I was ready to go home and beg the authorities to just let me back," Ms. Bosanoc said. "But my mom even said, 'This is not what your dad would want you to do.' "
Aycan Demirhan, a graduate from Istanbul, said two things preoccupied her during her years at Virginia: her family and her immigration status. She said she felt herself a prisoner of these twin worries, particularly when a catastrophic earthquake struck Turkey two years ago.
And when Samer Saadeh, a Beirut-born Virginia senior, took his diploma in early May, he draped the Lebanese flag over his black gown so relatives in Lebanon could pick him out from the sea of graduates on the university's live Web cast.
Alexandre Venot, a 23-year-old at Georgetown who is getting his degree in finance and management, likens the prospect of returning to his family in France to a reverse acculturation, the opposite of his adaptation to American life. He is searching for a job to extend his visa, and hopes for something that will offer moral, more than monetary, satisfaction. Vaguely, he thinks it may be time to reconnect with his homeland.
"I'm a very different person from when I left my home country," Mr. Venot said. "To make myself feel better, I say I'm a citizen of the world, but I don't feel comfortable anywhere. Maybe if I go to Spain and you ask me in three years, I'll say I feel Spanish." 
While some students hope to settle in the United States permanently, others plan to return home, but not yet. 
Ms. Demirhan, who studied psychology and economics, estimates that she needs a decade working in this country to secure a job back home at the vice-presidential level, crucial if she hopes to influence decisions in Turkey's tradition-bound, hierarchical culture. She will start work at Credit Suisse-First Boston in New York this summer, and figures "they'll have to see something really magical in me" to sponsor her for a work visa. 
Astari Daenuwy, an Indonesian student at the University of Virginia, also scoured job fairs and the Internet for an opening. Given her country's political and economic turmoil, she said, "If I go home, I can't really do anything with what I have now."
Recruiters from multinational consulting firms were delighted to learn that Ms. Daenuwy, whose English is fluent and unaccented, spoke Indonesian. Once she revealed she was Indonesian, however, their interest dimmed.
"But you do have friends in your major," she remembers one recruiter suggesting. "We'd love to hear from them." 
Her only offer came from the nonprofit U.S.-Indonesia Society, based in Washington. Ms. Daenuwy has until fall to persuade her new bosses to sponsor her for a six-year work visa, of which the Immigration and Naturalization Service issues only 195,000 a year. Aside from the considerable paperwork sponsorship entails, it also costs an employer more than $1,000 in government fees.
For Mr. Saadeh, whose family lives in Geneva, the senior-year job hunt proved disillusioning. The friendliness and sense of inclusion that opened him up as an undergraduate fell away, with recruiters from several companies declining resumes from international students. He eventually landed a job with Dell Computer, which, with the technology sector's downturn, fell through just before graduation.
Ms. Shaath, who hopes to attend graduate school in Chicago, at first expected to feel bitter about her parents' insistence that she spend a year with them in Jeddah. When she left for college, they feared she would fall in love with her independence and never return. Now, she says she wants to go home.
"I'm attached to my family and roots," Ms. Shaath said. "I think if I stayed on for graduate school now, I'd definitely lose a part of myself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Astari Daenuwy of Indonesia, left, at graduation from the University of Virginia in May with Anne Magnan.; Rasha Shaath, left, whose family is in Saudi Arabia, and Samer Saadeh of Lebanon, graduated on Sunday from the University of Virginia. (Photographs by Alex Brandon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WOMEN (77%); FAMILY (77%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); HISTORY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (93%)

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



631 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Putting Team in Place for a Full-Bore Assault on Regulation 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22 

 BODY:
Across an array of federal agencies, the Bush administration has begun to make good on its commitment of broad deregulation, promoting a policy transformation long sought by the business community and opposed by consumer, labor and environmental organizations.
 Well beyond the intersecting spheres of energy and the environment, where the shifting policies have been apparent for months and crystallized last week in the proposal for a relaxation of regulations to encourage energy development, the scaffolding of a new regulatory framework is taking shape. 
 It would affect antitrust enforcement, telecommunications, workplace rules, consumer protections, financial services and even how the military and other agencies buy goods and services from the private sector.
For instance, Mary Sheila Gall, the official selected to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission, has a decade-long track record at the agency of voting against proposed safety rules because she has often said that injuries are caused not by faulty product designs but by negligent consumers. Her record has attracted widespread support from many manufacturers and strong criticism from Consumers Union and other similar groups. 
She has criticized the agency for promoting "a federal nanny state." Safety experts and industry executives predict that after she takes over, a number of proposals under consideration, like one requiring flame-resistant treatment of upholstered furniture and another regulating baby bath seats, will be dropped.
Timothy J. Muris, the nominee to head the Federal Trade Commission, has repeatedly said that the Clinton administration was insensitive to the economic benefits of large corporate mergers and too aggressive in bringing major monopoly cases and challenging a large airline for predatory pricing. Mr. Muris, a top antitrust official in the Reagan administration, complained at his Senate confirmation hearing last Wednesday that under the previous administration, "there were many large monopoly investigations at the Department of Justice sending a signal that I thought was inappropriate."
And John D. Graham, another Bush appointee for a senior regulatory post, has long maintained that the federal government has imposed too many onerous environmental, health and safety regulations on big business without properly calculating the financial costs of such regulations.
Dr. Graham, a Harvard professor whose research on risks has been sponsored by corporations with stakes in the outcome of regulatory debates, has maintained that exposure to low levels of dioxins, which the government classifies as a human carcinogen, may actually reduce cancer and that there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate any harmful effect of residual pesticides on food. He is expected to become the White House's senior budget official for reviewing almost every proposed federal regulation.
The approach being pursued by the Bush regulators involves a far more rigorous examination of the financial costs and benefits of regulation, one that experts predict will tip the balance of power from consumer, environmental and labor groups to businesses and will lead to a wholesale elimination of scores of rules that have prevented American companies from both growing and having more flexibility in making business decisions.
Supporters of the existing regulations say that the rules promote many benefits that are not easily quantifiable and are certain to be overlooked under such cost-benefit analyses, from protecting consumers from dangerous products to preserving the environment and limiting companies from dominating certain crucial industries like telecommunications. But the administration is sympathetic to companies that have been deeply critical of the financial costs of such rules.
"There are those who believe cost should be no object," said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director and a central player in the regulatory process. "They take the position that if an objective feels good, we should impose a regulation without regard to costs. That's not a very realistic approach."
While many of the Bush appointees are still awaiting confirmation, leaders of American businesses say they can already feel the different regulatory climate in Washington.
"Under Clinton, some of the regulatory agencies had a view that they didn't trust business and the government did a lot of things even if they had to go over the line," said Thomas J. Donohue, president and chief executive of the United States Chamber of Commerce. "The Bush guys have more of an understanding of the effect of regulation on the business community and on the economy. And they are doing it while there is an energy crisis on their hands and an economy that is not doing well."
But others say that the administration is simply repaying its campaign debts to its most important supporters.
"The big oak tree is bending all the way over," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a public advocacy group, and a senior safety regulator in the Carter administration. "Bush is going full bore to support his industry supporters. He wants to completely change the regulatory process to be one that supports the industry."
Not since the Reagan administration's wholesale reversals of regulatory policies have the scales tipped so abruptly, according to lobbyists for both sides in the long-running regulatory debate.
Just as during the so-called Reagan Revolution, the deregulatory renaissance is largely a reflection of the pro-business agenda that President Bush campaigned on. But the change is especially swift this time because Congress and the White House are controlled by the Republicans for the first time in nearly half a century. When the legislative and executive branches of government are controlled by different parties, the regulatory agencies typically take more moderate positions as they walk a line between Congress and the White House.
While Bill Clinton and his administration courted business from Silicon Valley to Wall Street, certain agencies in the 1990's were far more aggressive in their rules and enforcement than in the prior administration. This could be seen in actions ranging from the Microsoft antitrust case to enforcement of environmental regulations.
But now, many of those actions are under assault, and the shifting ground can be felt throughout the alphabet soup of Washington agencies:
*Michael K. Powell, the new chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, has been deeply skeptical of rules limiting the size of cable and broadcasting companies and of regulations that have made it hard for the regional Bell companies to enter the long-distance market without first opening their own local markets. "I do not believe deregulation is like a dessert that you serve after people have fed on their vegetables and is a reward for the creation of competition," he said earlier this year. "I believe that deregulation is instead a critical ingredient to facilitating competition, not something to be handed out after there is a substantial number of players in the market."
*Two of the three people nominated to serve as service secretaries in the Defense Department come from military contractors, where they have advocated a greater reliance on the marketplace and contracting out for services. The two, Gordon R. England of General Dynamics for the Navy and James G. Roche of Northrop Grumman for the Air Force -- along with other senior Pentagon officials -- have vowed to re-examine procurement practices with an eye toward accelerating the review of government contracts, reducing red tape and promoting outsourcing and the privatization of programs that should prove to be enormously beneficial to the business community.
*The president's energy policy, formulated by the White House and a group of agencies including the Interior and Energy Departments, offers conservation proposals in an effort to win over some environmental groups. But it proposes to deliver a virtual wish list of deregulatory changes to the oil, gas and nuclear industries, which had far less influence in the prior administration.
The case of Ms. Gall to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission is perhaps the strongest illustration of the policy shift. Following the tradition of other presidential nominees, Ms. Gall said through an aide that she would not comment on her record or regulatory views while her nomination was pending.
Since 1991, she has been one of three commissioners at the agency, which watches over some 15,000 products. Created in the 1970's, the commission was nearly eliminated in the Reagan administration, and after its budget was eviscerated and it was filled with relatively ineffective officials, frustrated consumer groups contemplated recommending that it be eliminated.
Under Ann W. Brown, who was appointed by President Clinton to head the agency in 1994, its profile rose considerably. Ms. Brown, a former top official at the Consumer Federation of America, opened investigations into products, and she proposed rules as a way to prod industries to formulate their own guidelines.
Over the same period, Ms. Gall has repeatedly voted against safety regulations and has criticized the agency's role in prodding industries to formulate their own standards, which often reduced injuries and deaths. She has voted against safety standards for baby walkers, crib slats, bunk beds and baby bath seats. After the agency prodded crayon makers to remove small amounts of an asbestos-like substance, she applauded the industry but criticized the commission for putting pressure on the companies.
"The commission strives to be a data-driven agency and one committed to sound science in its activities," she said at the time. "In this case, however, the commission requested reformulation in the absence of adequate data. This 'science' more closely resembled 'political' science than traditional scientific inquiry."
But safety experts say that criticism is unwarranted, and that Ms. Gall's philosophy, if put in force at the agency, will lead to a sharp setback for consumers. 
"The mission of the Consumer Product Safety Commission is to reduce or eliminate unreasonable risk of injury," said R. David Pittle, a former commissioner at the agency who is now the senior vice president and technical director of Consumers Union. "If kids year in or year out are killed by some product, the law does not say, 'Well, we have to tell the parents to do a better job.' That doesn't have much meaning to a parent who has lost a child because of a momentarily inadvertent lapse of attention."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John D. Graham is expected to become the top budget official for reviewing proposed regulations. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (91%); CONSUMER LAW (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); CHEMICALS SAFETY REGULATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BABY PRODUCTS (74%); NEGLIGENCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CANCER (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); EVIDENCE (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MERGERS (64%); CARCINOGENS (64%); POLITICS (63%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; CONSUMER PROTECTION; BANKS AND BANKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ENVIRONMENT; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



632 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Japan Finds Diplomacy Can Turn A Bit Unruly 

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 22 

 BODY:
Japan's new foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, a fiery reformer, has never been known for her diplomatic skills. And in her first weeks in office she has committed a number of gaffes that have made her critics question her ability to do the job. 
 Ms. Tanaka has unceremoniously canceled appointments with foreign dignitaries, including a meeting in Tokyo with Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage. She has been widely criticized for undermining the bureaucrats who have managed the foreign ministry for decades, though she herself lacks experience in international affairs. 
 Frustration over her behavior reached a high point last week when foreign ministry bureaucrats openly ridiculed her and she faced a grilling from opposition politicians in Parliament. Even some members of her own party, the Liberal Democratic, have assailed Ms. Tanaka's actions.
Ms. Tanaka is considered an ardent reformer, and as the daughter of former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka, one of the party's strongest leaders, she remains highly popular with the public. She is the first woman to hold the position of foreign minister. 
The criticism of her has been furious. Takuya Tasso of the Liberal Party accused Ms. Tanaka of lying when she said that she had scrapped the meeting with Mr. Armitage because she was "exhausted and in a panic" after a busy day of foreign policy briefings by the agency staff. "All Japanese people think the explanation of the foreign minister is a lie," Mr. Tasso said. "Chronic lying requires psychoanalysis."
United States and Japanese diplomats said Ms. Tanaka's refusal to meet with Mr. Armitage was especially unfortunate because the meeting had been arranged weeks ago and the deputy secretary was carrying a message from President Bush about his new security strategy. Moreover, the United States is Japan's main ally and Mr. Armitage will be involved in setting American policy in Asia, they said. 
Foreign Ministry officials said that in recent days Ms. Tanaka had also skipped scheduled appointments with a number of other foreign diplomats, including Igor Ivanov, Russia's foreign minister: Chris Patten, Europe's external relations commissioner; and Rodriguez Giavarini, Argentina's foreign minister.
And on Monday, another controversy involving Ms. Tanaka was kept alive when Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi said he had not ruled out the possibility of issuing another visa to the former president of Taiwan, Lee Teng-hui.
Aside from the inherent sensitivity of the issue because of Chinese objections, the prime minister's comments apparently contradicted comments by Ms. Tanaka, who reportedly had told China that Tokyo would issue no more visas to Mr. Lee. 
"Madam Tanaka was the worst choice for foreign minister in modern Japanese history," Mr. Tasso said in an interview. "Following protocol and being polite are the most important aspects of Japanese culture since time immemorial and she has shattered that virtue in front of the whole world."
In a television interview, former Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori said of Ms. Tanaka: "I have the impression that she has been acting emotionally." The newspaper Yomiuri Shinbun criticized what it called Ms. Tanaka's "ego trip" in an editorial that concluded, "If things are allowed to continue in this vein, the government could find itself unable to carry out any diplomatic duties."
Much of the onslaught against Ms. Tanaka is being fueled by the powerful old guard of the Liberal Democratic Party of whom the new foreign minister has been a sharp critic. The ruling party elders, who have historically chosen the country's prime minister, were humiliated last month when Mr. Koizumi, a maverick, won the election, running on a platform of social and economic reforms. Mr. Koizumi has filled his cabinet with several radical reformers like Ms. Tanaka. 
But Ms. Tanaka's troubles are also a result of her deteriorating relations with the ministry's entrenched bureaucrats. 
Upon her arrival at the ministry, Ms. Tanaka vowed to shake up the ministry, a largely autonomous agency, and seize control from the bureaucrats. She immediately canceled transfer orders, toughened policy on Russia, and threatened to punish those responsible for an embezzlement scandal at the ministry. The result was a near revolt within her own agency in which senior bureaucrats, more accustomed to shepherding the foreign minister rather than taking orders, openly sparred with her in heated meetings at the ministry. She has been paying the price ever since.
At the parliament budget meeting, Ms. Tanaka refused to answer questions regarding the United States missile defense plan, saying the ministry staff had not briefed her on the issue despite repeated requests, suggesting that they had deliberately withheld information. But ministry executives publicly disputed the minister, providing dates and times when she had been briefed. 
By the end of last week, Ms. Tanaka had apologized, saying that she had received a report.
Political analysts said that Ms. Tanaka's missteps had embarrassed Japan and the Koizumi administration. They said that to be effective in her new post, Ms. Tanaka will have to mend fences with the ministry bureaucrats.
"She's a very intense person and probably a little too interested in getting a sound bite," said Kuniko Inoguchi, a professor of international studies at Sophia University. "But I think she was right to come out strong in the beginning because she is the first woman in that job and she had to demand respect."
Despite Ms. Tanaka's awkward debut at the Foreign Ministry, Morimoto Satoshi, a professor of political science at Takushoku University, said she was an appropriate choice for the post because she is capable of carrying out the type of drastic reforms that Mr. Koizumi has promised. 
The rift at the Foreign Ministry appears to have had little impact on Ms. Tanaka's popularity. Japanese newspapers and television reported that opposition leaders were flooded with angry calls and faxes protesting what many Japanese viewed as unfair attacks against the foreign minister. 
The Foreign Ministry has become unpopular with the public after an embezzlement scandal involving agency officials, who are regarded as elitist and arrogant by many Japanese.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Makiko Tanaka, Japan's new foreign minister, conferring this week with an unidentified lawmaker, right, and her aide, center, at a parliamentary hearing. She has been ruffling a few feathers in the Foreign Ministry. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); POLITICS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); WOMEN (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) WOMEN; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) SIMS, CALVIN; TANAKA, MAKIKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



633 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
My Beautiful Mansionette

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
For most of the past year my wife and I lived in a rented house in central New Jersey -- a McMansion, also known as a mansionette. It was in a brand-new development, in what used to be a cornfield, that looks like a textbook illustration of turn-of-the-millennium urban sprawl. These days they aren't little boxes on a hillside, they're big boxes on flat ground. But they're all still made out of ticky-tacky, and they all look just the same. 
 Our neighbors, however, didn't all look just the same. Most of them were immigrants, and most were nonwhite; the largest contingent came from India. 
 Seeing this, some of my recent correspondents would doubtless have felt confirmed in their prejudices. You see, a few columns back I wrote a piece about urban sprawl and its attendant traffic congestion, which is becoming a very serious issue -- a lot more important to the lives of most people than the dollar or two per day they might eventually get from George W. Bush's tax cut. And a surprising number of the letters I received in response insisted, vehemently, that the real culprit behind urban sprawl was population growth, and that therefore it was all because of immigration. 
A quick search of the Internet reveals that my correspondents are not isolated individuals; they are part of a still small but growing movement. On casual observation I would say that the anti-immigration movement today is where the anti-globalization movement was a couple of years before Seattle: not yet large enough to be a political force to be reckoned with, but quite possibly on its way to achieving critical mass. And complaints about the alleged linkage between immigration and urban sprawl is a popular theme. 
Like so much of what the anti-globalization activists say, these complaints are mostly but not entirely off base. The grain of truth in the argument is that other things being the same, a growing population means more houses, more cars and hence more sprawl. But population growth is only a secondary contributing factor to a disastrous pattern of land use driven by skewed incentives that encourage people to spread out in a low-density sprawl that in turn forces them to spend more and more of their time in cars. What's really impressive to me is the way that medium-size metropolitan areas, like Atlanta or Houston, have managed to mismanage their development so completely that they have worse traffic congestion than metropolitan New York, which has five times their population. (I know, I know, I sound like the kind of person Dick Cheney loves to hate. But as it happens I do own an S.U.V.)
So why the vehemence? Psychoanalyzing a political movement guarantees a fresh wave of hate mail, but my best guess is that the passion of my correspondents is ultimately fueled by cultural unease. The changes one sees in central New Jersey are the same as what one sees everywhere in this country: farms and traditional towns submerged by a rising tide of malls, highways and McMansions. And since some of the faces behind the wheel or the fake Palladian window are brown, it's all too natural to blame them for the trend.
Obviously I don't feel the same way; I am one of those people who feel that immigration is a good thing -- most of all for the immigrants, but good for America too. To some extent this position rests on mundane economic arguments. Foreign-born talent has been crucial in this country's technology boom, and plays a large role in many less glamorous industries too. (For some reason all the gas stations around here seem to be run by Sikhs.) And one can make a good case that demography -- the perils of a low birth rate -- is a key factor in the economic malaise of Japan and some European countries; America's openness to immigration is one of the things protecting us from that fate.
And I have my own cultural prejudices. Isn't the immigrant experience part of what this country is all about? Without immigrant families climbing the social ladder, what would become of the American dream? 
But never mind the rational arguments. Over the horizon new and possibly quite nasty political storms are brewing. If you think people get angry and irrational when arguing about taxes, wait till you see them argue about immigration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CITIES (76%); REFUGEES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%) URBAN AREAS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); DICK CHENEY (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



634 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Estimate In New Jersey Now Reaching $1.6 Billion 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 22 

 BODY:
Just a year ago, New Jersey was reveling in the budgetary equivalent of a winning Powerball ticket: a huge windfall of tax revenue allowed state officials to draft a budget with a 10 percent spending increase and a record $870 million surplus. But with just six weeks to go before the next budget must be adopted, the state has gone from counting its spoils to pinching its pennies.
 Nonpartisan fiscal analysts are now predicting a $1.6 billion shortfall in next year's budget, up from the $1 billion deficit that they were predicting just seven weeks ago. The projections raise the likelihood that Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco and the Republican-controlled State Legislature will have to make drastic spending cuts in the heat of the Republican primary campaign for governor. 
 While no one at the State House is predicting a recession, the nationwide economic slowdown is clearly being felt in New Jersey. State taxes collected in March and April declined more than 2 percent from last year, and the unemployment rate rose to 4.2 percent in April from 3.8 percent the month before. While there is little doubt that the budget can be balanced, there is a new air of uncertainty. What if stocks drop again? What if more jobs are lost, or energy prices continue to rise? 
The anxiety that state officials are starting to feel was evident at a routine budget hearing this morning, when the acting treasurer refused to provide lawmakers with revised revenue projections, saying he needed more time. It was a departure from practice, drawing harsh criticism from Democrats and even raising the eyebrows of Leonard Lance, the Republican chairman of the Assembly Budget Committee.
The budget process cannot proceed until the executive branch certifies revenue projections, so, as a result of the delay, the Legislature will have a month at best to rework the $23.2 billion budget, which may need to be cut by as much as 5.5 percent.
In his testimony, the acting state treasurer, Peter R. Lawrance, did not discount evidence that this year's tax revenues were falling far short of expectations. But he said the current state of the economy was so unpredictable that officials needed more time to develop accurate estimates, particularly of the capital gains taxes that the state has increasingly come to rely on.
"There is little doubt that we will be lowering our revenues from earlier forecasts," Mr. Lawrance told the committee. "But we will not know to what extent until Treasury staff and our consultants complete the evaluations."
Mr. Lawrance expressed confidence that the New Jersey economy remained strong and said the changing forecasts "should not scare and frighten people in need of state services."
Still, Mr. Lawrance's acknowledgment that revenues will fall short all but guarantees six tense weeks between now and July 1, the deadline set in the State Constitution for adopting a balanced budget. And it means Republicans in Trenton will be scrambling to cut spending while former Representative Bob Franks and Mayor Bret D. Schundler of Jersey City are battling for the party's nomination for governor. The primary vote is on June 26. 
Today, Mr. Lance, the budget committee chairman, did not scold Mr. Lawrance for not providing revenue estimates, but he was not happy. "Traditionally, middle of May is the time when Treasury tells the Legislature its estimates for the coming year," he reminded the treasurer. He rejected Mr. Lawrance's offer to provide new numbers by mid-June, requesting instead that they be presented to the committee, along with a revised budget, by June 1.
Mr. Lance urged the administration to impose "an immediate freeze on all discretionary spending and on all hiring in every department in state government." He said he looked forward to helping the administration cut spending. "I do not believe there is any sentiment anywhere to raise taxes," he said. 
But Assemblywoman Barbara Buono, the senior Democrat on the budget committee, was not as forgiving. "Quite frankly, I think it's an abomination," she said of Mr. Lawrance's refusal to supply estimates. "I can't find that there is any excuse." 
Ms. Buono accused Mr. Lawrance of abdicating his responsibilities as treasurer and said he was hampering the Legislature's participation in the budget process. "How can we review our options if you put no data, no calculations before us?" she asked. "You reassure us that we are going to have a balanced budget. When are you going to let the Legislature in on it?"
Mr. Lawrance's appearance at today's hearing was preceded by testimony from David J. Rosen, the chief of the finance section of the Office of Legislative Services, a nonpartisan agency that analyzes the budget. Mr. Rosen testified that the shortfall for next year, projected in April to be $1 billion, was now estimated to be $1.6 billion. 
Mr. Rosen and Alan R. Kooney, the legislative budget and finance officer, said that tax revenues had dropped off much sooner than they expected. They expressed particular concern about a decline in capital gains tax revenue, which they estimate will be down 25 percent from last year and reduce state revenues by about $400 million. The decline could be steeper if the stock markets do not perform better, they said. 
Mr. Lawrance said he did not agree with that estimate for the capital gains tax. In his testimony he cited conflicting projections on capital gains taxes by different economists. In next year's budget, as it now stands, the state has projected an increase in capital gains tax revenue of 3.5 percent. 
As a cost-saving measure, Mr. Lawrance said, the state has barred spending on new office equipment.
He stressed that there was no cause for worry. "As has been stated by many economists, it is their belief and ours that New Jersey's economy remains fundamentally strong," he testified. "And any economic downturn will be more shallow and of shorter duration here than elsewhere." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



635 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Profit At Airline 

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Reversing its first annual loss as a publicly traded company last year, British Airways reported a full-year profit of $:114 million ($164 million). It said it had reduced the number of cheap-seat passengers to focus on business class fliers paying top prices. 
The turnaround came despite the economic slowdown in the United States and Britain's outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, which deterred some travelers. Shares of British Airways rose 6 percent, to 377 pence ($5.43). The company also said it expected its supersonic Concorde flights to the United States to resume in late summer. The airplanes have been grounded since the crash last July of an Air France Concorde near Paris in which more than 100 people died. Alan Cowell (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks share prices of British Airways for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (69%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (85%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC 

TICKER: AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (50%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (87%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



636 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Korean Chip Maker Moves to Raise Cash 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, May 22 

 BODY:
Hynix Semiconductor is opening a global capital-raising campaign with an unusual selling point: its leading shareholders agreed today to surrender all their shares to the creditor institutions to which Hynix owes more than $4 billion.
 The company disclosed the forfeiture of shares held by three other Hyundai companies and by the Hyundai Group's chairman, Chung Mong Hun, to demonstrate that it is indeed leaving the Hyundai orbit. It is trying to raise cash and clean up debt as part of a $3.8 billion self-rescue plan. 
 Hynix's president, Park Chong Sup, opened the 25-city roadshow, with stops in North America, Europe and Asia, on Monday by promising to spell out for investors how "fundamental changes within Hynix" were yielding improvements "that reach into every area of our operations and activities."
The biggest change was the surrender of a combined 19.3 percent of the company's equity by Hyundai Merchant Marine, Hyundai Heavy Industries, Hyundai Elevator and Mr. Chung, a son of the Hyundai group founder, Chung Ju Yung. The deal freed the three Hyundai companies of responsibility for debts in excess of $1 billion that they had backed on Hynix's behalf. 
Mr. Park, a longtime executive at Hyundai Electronics, as the company was known before it began breaking away from the group, has reportedly laid out for investors a plan to spend some $7 billion on new and refurbished plants and on research and development in a drive to catch up with Samsung Electronics in production of memory chips. Hynix, long the No. 2 producer behind Samsung, has lately been overtaken by Micron Technology as well.
Success for Hynix depends on whether it can persuade investors to buy $1 billion in new equity, in the form of global depository receipts, plus some $300 million in high-yield bonds, before the end of June when the company completes its separation from the Hyundai Group.
The government-controlled Korea Development Bank has already bought more than $600 million worth of Hynix bonds this year, and another government-controlled institution, the Seoul Guarantee Insurance Company, backs a further $500 million in bonds that were purchased by local investment trust companies, two moves that have drawn criticism overseas, especially in the United States, as veiled subsidies to the company, a contention the government denies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Park Chong Sup, right, the president of Hynix Semiconductor, with Jeffrey Shafer of Salomon Smith Barney. Salomon is the lead manager in the sale of Hynix depository receipts valued at $1 billion. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (62%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: HYUNDAI GROUP (95%); SK HYNIX INC (92%); HYUNDAI CORP (92%); GUARANTEE INSURANCE CO (63%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); HYUNDAI MERCHANT MARINE CO LTD (56%); HYUNDAI ELEVATOR CO LTD (55%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (55%); HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES CO LTD (55%); KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HYUNDAI GROUP; HYNIX SEMICONDUCTOR 

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (92%); 000660 (KSE) (92%); 011760 (KSE) (92%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); 011200 (KSE) (56%); 017800 (KSE) (55%); SMSN (LSE) (55%); 005930 (KSE) (55%); 009540 (KSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3534 ELEVATORS & MOVING STAIRWAYS (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON; CHUNG MONG HUN; PARK CHONG SUP 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (65%) NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



637 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Target's Net Rises 6.3% As It Expands To New Areas 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, May 22 

 BODY:
The Target Corporation said today that profit in its most recent quarter rose 6.3 percent as it pushed its expansion outside the Midwest and into big markets like New Jersey and Texas.
 Net income rose to $254 million, or 28 cents a share, in its first fiscal quarter, compared with $239 million, or 26 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
Sales in the quarter, which ended May 5, rose 7.7 percent, to $8.35 billion. 
 The results matched analysts' expectations, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
The opening of 70 discount stores in the last year helped lift sales 11 percent at the Target chain, a smaller rival to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the Kmart Corporation. Exclusive brands like Mossimo clothing and Michael Graves home goods attracted shoppers even as the slowing economy led many consumers to curb spending.
Target stores "differentiate themselves from a product standpoint," said Mark Miller, an analyst at William Blair & Company. "It gives them more of a buffer as opposed to some competitors who just compete on price."
Profit growth at Target, which is based in Minneapolis, was tempered by sales declines at the company's Mervyn's and Marshall Field's department stores. 
Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1.7 percent. That included a 2.8 percent gain at Target, a 1.6 percent decline at Mervyn's and a 4.5 percent drop at Marshall Field's.
Target's earnings forecasts are "consistent" with analysts' expectations of 30 cents a share for the second quarter and $1.55 a share for the full year, Doug Scovanner, the company's chief financial officer, said on a conference call.
Shares of Target rose $1.14 to $38.89. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (98%); MACY'S INC (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); KMART CORP (70%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: TARGET CORP 

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (98%); M (NYSE) (93%); WMT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (98%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (98%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (84%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



638 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Nasdaq Edges Higher While Blue Chips Drop Slightly

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors gravitated toward technology stocks again yesterday, sending the Nasdaq composite index slightly higher for a sixth consecutive session.
 Blue chips faltered, however, on a mix of company-specific news and profit taking and an expected pullback from the big advance that sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 464.95 points, or 4.3 percent, over the previous four sessions. 
 "I think the investment public is really falling back in love with technology and telecom and it's been a long, long time since that's been the case," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. "It's not surprising though. If this economy is going to turn around, and it's showing signs that it is, the companies that are going to do the best, the fastest are going to be in the technology sector. It's a market leader." 
 The Nasdaq composite index closed up 8.26 points, or 0.4 percent, at 2,313.85.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 80.68 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,257.24, giving back the gains on Monday that sent it to its highest close since Jan. 20, 2000, when it reached 11,351.30.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3.45 points, or nearly 0.3 percent, to 1,309.38.
 Technology stocks struggled. Gainers included Microsoft, up $1.52 at $70.31, and Cisco Systems, up 61 cents at $23.48. But some other high-profile technology stocks fell, including Oracle, down 52 cents at $17.58.
 Blue chips were likewise choppy, reflecting profit taking from the big run-up last week. Among retailers, Home Depot slipped 39 cents, to $52.99, while Target was up $1.14 at $38.89 on better-than-expected earnings.
 Many stocks made moves based on individual companies' announcements rather than investors' overall worries about the economy or weak earnings reports, which have controlled trading activity in recent weeks.
 AOL Time Warner rose 64 cents, to $57.24; it announced that its America Online unit was increasing the monthly price of its unlimited use plan by about 9 percent, to $23.90.
 Investors punished Merck, which dropped $2.30, to $75.10, on concerns about the safety of its drug Vioxx and also that of Celebrex, made by Pharmacia and co-marketed by Pfizer. Pharmacia fell 52 cents, to $49.50, and Pfizer lost 72 cents, to $44.04.
 Analysts have been expecting investors, who still have concerns about when corporate profits will improve, to pull back and take profits from the market.
 After all, Wall Street has been rallying since early April, primarily in response to the five interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve this year. Money that was on the sidelines for months while the economy struggled has been coming back into the market, and some retreat was inevitable as investors took profits and adjusted their portfolios.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices fell yesterday on concern that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates for a sixth time this year, inciting enough growth to quicken inflation.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to a price of 97 2/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.39 percent from 5.38 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 11/32, to 94 13/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.77 percent from 5.75 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: AOL INC (81%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (71%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); PFIZER INC (51%); PHARMACIA CORP (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



639 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Airline Based At Kennedy Expands West 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
The slow pace of development at Kennedy Airport by the Port Authority is pushing JetBlue Airways, the fast-growing low-fare airline, to expand near Los Angeles.
 JetBlue plans to announce today that beginning on Aug. 29, it will fly twice a day between Long Beach Airport and Kennedy, and it will add 25 daily departures from California over the next two years to as many as 14 other cities, including Boston, Washington, Denver and Salt Lake City. 
 The move represents an important shift in strategy for JetBlue, which began operations last year with a plan to base its operations solely at Kennedy. It now has 38 flights a day from the airport to 14 destinations. But JetBlue says that it needs to keep growing to lower its operating costs, and that it will run out of gate space by the end of the year. It already has 14 Airbus jets, and expects to have 21 by the end of the year. 
The shift will also most likely step up criticism of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which manages the airport, for not accommodating what is widely considered to be the airline industry's most successful start-up company in a generation.
When JetBlue announced its plans to fly from Kennedy in 1999, the Port Authority was reluctant to lease a terminal to an untested entrant. JetBlue ended up subleasing six gates at Kennedy's Terminal 6 from United Airlines while lobbying the agency with increasing urgency for permission to take over the terminal.
"We move a little more quickly than they do," said David Neeleman, JetBlue's chief executive. "We are just getting kind of boxed in. We need some place to put the planes."
Most cities lobby heavily for increased air service, especially from low-fare carriers, because it creates jobs and increases economic growth. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been an outspoken critic of the agency for its management of both Kennedy and La Guardia Airports.
Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said yesterday that the agency was working with JetBlue to try to accommodate its growth but that nothing had been decided yet.
Mr. Neeleman said that he thought JetBlue would ultimately get its own terminal at Kennedy, and that it was committed to expanding its operations at the airport over the long term. "We still want to grow New York, but the growth rate will have to slow for a while," he said.
He said in an interview that Long Beach Airport had many of the same attributes that had attracted him to Kennedy. Its five runways are underused and are surrounded by a huge population base, of 6.5 million people.
The airport is situated between Los Angeles International Airport to the north and John Wayne Airport in Orange County to the south. But while both of those airports are operating at or above capacity, Long Beach is served only by American Airlines and America West Airlines, and each has only a few flights a day.
The airport also has the advantage of inexpensive landing fees, cheap and accessible parking and a convenient Art Deco terminal.
But it is surrounded by residential communities that are extremely sensitive to noise. In the early 1980's, the Long Beach City Council passed an ordinance limiting airlines to 18 daily departures. The law touched off more than a decade of litigation. Finally, in the mid-1990's, a judge ruled that the city could limit carriers to a total of 41 daily departures.
Commercial and cargo airlines are now making only 14 daily departures. Last week, the airport awarded the remaining 27 to JetBlue. The same day, the Long Beach City Council extended the period during which airlines must use the slots or forfeit them to 24 months from 6 months.
"The community is going to be very concerned," said Rob Webb, a city councilman whose district is directly under the airport's incoming flight path. But he said that under the court order, the council could not stop an airline from operating within the restriction.
JetBlue faced similar opposition from some residents near Kennedy Airport. Its new aircraft are much quieter than the older planes used by many start-up carriers. That helped persuade Mr. Webb to vote for the slot extension.
"If we have to have 41 flights, I want to see the most responsible and neighborhood-friendly 41 flights," he said.
The question is whether JetBlue can succeed at Long Beach, where several other start-up carriers like WinAir, Jet America and Sun Jet International have failed.
Modeled on the low-fare king, Southwest Airlines, JetBlue offers one-way transcontinental fares as low as $129 from Kennedy. It also serves several cities in Florida and upstate New York. Its aircraft offer one-class service with live satellite television at every one of its leather seats, and the airline prides itself on its friendly service.
Mr. Neeleman said that the airline was profitable after just six months, and that it would generate $330 million to $340 million in sales this year. It was financed with $130 million from several institutions, led by funds controlled by the financier George Soros. The original backers recently invested an additional $30 million at a significantly higher valuation, Mr. Neeleman said.
He said he understood the Port Authority's reluctance to give Jet-Blue the lease to a terminal at Kennedy before the airline had proved itself. But he said JetBlue now deserved more control over its destiny. 
"We think we have been really good for New York," he added. "We have done everything we said we would do in terms of service, noise and jobs. We just want to be appreciated for what we have done. I think the Port knows that, and it is going to work out well in the end."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIRPORTS (91%); PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AIR SERVICE (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); STARTUPS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); JOB CREATION (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; LONG BEACH AIRPORT (CALIF); FINANCES 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (96%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); AIRBUS SAS (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: JETBLUE AIRWAYS; PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (51%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; NEELEMAN, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; CALIFORNIA; BOSTON (MASS); WASHINGTON (DC); DENVER (COLO); SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



640 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
AOL Raising Monthly Rate 9%; a Rival May Follow Suit

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
America Online said yesterday that it would increase the price of its flagship online service by 9 percent, to $23.90 a month, in a striking show of confidence that its customers would remain loyal as its price rises further above those of its rivals.
 EarthLink, the distant No. 2 Internet service provider, charges $19.95 a month. And MSN from Microsoft charges $21.95, although it offers various rebates and deals that can bring the effective price to half that level. 
 America Online, which is now a unit of AOL Time Warner, presents itself as more than an Internet access provider, offering content, software and chat rooms that other service providers do not. And something in that proposition seems to resonate with users, as AOL has maintained an enormous lead over rivals. 
In February 1998, AOL increased its price $2, to $21.95. It told analysts at the time that it expected to lose about one month's worth of growth. Yet the increase did not seem to set the company back at all.
"When we did a price increase three years ago," said Barry Schuler, chairman of the America Online unit, "there was a short-term pause, then we went into the fastest period of growth in our history." 
AOL says that since its previous increase it has invested $3.5 billion adding telephone lines and network capacity. And its customers spend 50 percent more time online -- now 70 minutes a day -- than they did.
AOL Time Warner's chairman, Stephen M. Case, told investors in January that a price increase was "in the cards" for some point in the future. But some analysts expected that AOL would soften the blow by adding features to the service, like music downloading, when the price rose.
Mr. Schuler said yesterday that was not necessary. "People know us as a premium brand," he said.
Competitors agreed that in general, Internet users are not that price-sensitive and that AOL's move would not slow it down much.
Garry Betty, the chief executive of EarthLink, said that perhaps 10 percent to 15 percent of the market was interested in free or low-cost Internet service, and that those typically were not AOL customers. EarthLink's $2-a-month price advantage compared with AOL, he said, is far less important to its subscribers than its technology is.
Free Internet service providers, which hope to make money selling advertising, have had a tough time. Many have failed and the remaining ones have limited the number of free hours they offer.
Mr. Betty said that EarthLink, which has yet to make a profit, would consider raising its prices, as well. "We are happy about their move," he said. "It's a great response from a market leader that bespeaks the value that people get from the Internet and the need of providers to make money."
Microsoft said it had no plans to raise prices now.
AOL has 23 million subscribers in the United States, and about 80 percent of those pay the $21.95 rate for unlimited use. The rest have cheaper plans -- $4.95 a month for three hours or $9.95 for AOL's content but not Internet access -- or have been given free subscriptions with a new computer. Those plans are not affected by the price increase.
Assuming that AOL's subscriber base remains largely unchanged, the increase means that the company will take in about $430 million a year more in revenue. Analysts estimate that AOL will continue to grow at a record pace. Morgan Stanley, for instance, predicts that domestic subscriptions will increase to 25 million by the end of this year.
Even in the face of a deteriorating economy that is hurting nearly every other media company, AOL Time Warner has stuck to its revenue projection of $40 billion this year, up from $36 billion in 2000 for the old AOL and Time Warner combined. It projects pretax operating earnings of $11 billion, up from $8.2 billion.
The company says it could meet those targets without the AOL price increase, but analysts say the increase cannot hurt. "At the end of the day, it gives you higher confidence that they will make their targets," said Paul W. Noglows of J. P. Morgan. 
Unlike nearly every other Internet company, AOL -- without Time Warner -- is quite profitable. Its pretax operating earnings in the first quarter were $684 million on revenue of $2.1 billion.
In trading yesterday, AOL Time Warner's shares rose 64 cents, to $57.24.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); CHAT ROOMS (73%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); EXECUTIVES (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEVE CASE (59%) HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



641 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Trading on Their Names; 
Turning Government Experience Into Corporate Advice

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
The promotional materials say it all: William S. Cohen, the former defense secretary, is shown chatting with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, sharing a smile with Nelson Mandela, standing shoulder to shoulder with President Jiang Zemin of China and in a "grip and grin" pose with President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria, resplendent in his African robes and dark sunglasses. 
 The brochure is to announce the Cohen Group, a new consulting firm, which is trying to sell nothing so much as Mr. Cohen and his relationships around the globe. After meeting with world leaders in his 18 years as a Republican senator from Maine and his 4 years in the Clinton cabinet, Mr. Cohen is bringing his wealth of contacts and experience to bear for American corporations -- for a price. 
 Hoping to follow in the footsteps of Henry A. Kissinger, who started a consulting firm and made millions, and former President George Bush, who is a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, a Washington investment firm, Mr. Cohen is selling his insights, door-opening skills and star power in a new twist on Washington's revolving door between government service and private gain. 
It is not lobbying exactly, at least as lobbying is defined by government ethics rules that preclude Mr. Cohen and other former federal officials from calling on departments where they once worked. There is no chance of that. What Mr. Cohen is doing is trading on his government connections to provide strategic advice to corporations in the private sector, where the government ethics rules do not apply and where the ante is higher.
As business becomes more global and the stakes rise, Mr. Cohen and several other former government officials have come up with innovative ways to market their influence and knowledge: telling companies whom to meet with in foreign countries, explaining which way the political and economic winds of other countries might be blowing and, often, accompanying corporate executives abroad to help open doors and make deals happen. For lack of a better term, it is called international strategic consulting.
Other senior aides to President Bill Clinton are doing the same, including his former national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger; a former chief of staff, Thomas F. McLarty III; the former ambassador to the United Nations, Richard C. Holbrooke; and the former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, William E. Kennard.
"When you are in government, you get to meet hundreds, if not thousands of people at top levels of business and government, all over the world," said Peter G. Peterson, who was commerce secretary under President Richard M. Nixon and is now chairman of the Blackstone Group, a Wall Street investment firm. "People tend to have seen you in very important government negotiations. You often get access and credibility that may sometimes be difficult to get if you have only been in business."
Mr. Cohen, who started his firm with three other Pentagon officials two days after leaving office in January, said he was already dealing with "major major" business leaders. 
"They may be chief executives," he said, "but they may not be attuned to cultural issues, or how to approach the decision makers or even who the real decision makers are. They need advice on what to do."
In its first 100 days, the Cohen Group has been brought in to help an American manufacturer untangle problems in getting payments from its operations in Macedonia, is working with an aviation company seeking a Chinese partner, is helping another manufacturer close a deal in Oman and is advising a telecommmunications company on projects in Brazil and Chile.
While the Cohen Group says that confidentiality agreements preclude it from disclosing the names of its clients, the company, which operates out of a Washington office filled with photos of Mr. Cohen on Air Force One and with other Clinton officials, aims to have about 15 clients on retainer -- at fees that could range from $250,000 a year to, potentially, more than $1 million.
The granddaddy of this line of business is Mr. Kissinger, who started his advisory firm in 1982 and quickly lined up blue-chip clients like the American Express Company, I.B.M. and the American International Group, all of which paid handsomely for the former secretary of state's advice and representation. More recently, Mr. McLarty, who was Mr. Clinton's chief of staff early in his first term, joined him to create Kissinger McLarty Associates, adding clients like Exxon Mobil, United Parcel Service and Delta Air Lines.
"Companies want to minimize risk and maximize opportunities," Mr. McLarty said. "For instance, if a particular energy company has a desire to invest in a particular country, they want to be positioned correctly with the decision-making body. They want to affirm their credibility and put it in the most favorable light. They want to do that with the right tone and make sure that mistakes are not made."
James D. Robinson III, who traveled with Mr. Kissinger in Japan when Mr. Robinson was chief executive of American Express, put it more succinctly. "The more high horsepower you have," he said, "the more it helps you compete."
But where some see this as smart business, others see it differently.
"It's globalized influence peddling and lobbying," said Charles Lewis, executive director of the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit research group in Washington. "They are getting rich from the public trusts they held and are making money from their celebrity, not just in Washington, where it is the traditional thing to do, but internationally. These are senior advisers who have worked for years with the president and are well known. They have incredible cachet all over the world and are basically taking that to the bank."
In the case of Mr. Cohen, not only is he working for himself but he has entered into an array of strategic alliances, as he calls them, with other firms -- becoming the center of a hub-and-spoke system of business connections. He has strategic alliances with McDermott, Will & Emery, the nation's 10th-largest law firm; Fleishman-Hillard, a public relations firm; and Thayer Capital Partners, a private equity group, which is headed by Fred Malek, a former aide to Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush.
Mr. Cohen is also looking to add an investment bank and a hedge fund to provide one-stop shopping. In each of these affiliations, the idea is for the firms to work jointly on projects and to steer business to one another.
McDermott has retained the Cohen Group to offer advice to McDermott clients and to help with marketing. Next month, Mr. Cohen will hold a Silicon Valley seminar for potential clients in which he and Floyd Kvamme, a longtime venture capitalist who is advising President Bush on technology issues, will speak on "Navigating Washington -- and the World." 
Last week, 80 potential McDermott clients in Washington met with Mr. Cohen and his guest, Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican who once worked for Mr. Cohen in the Senate, to discuss opportunities in the military contracting business.
To keep his contacts and image fresh, Mr. Cohen appears regularly on political talk shows -- he was especially active during the Chinese spy plane crisis -- and since leaving the Pentagon he has hopped the globe to meet defense ministers from Poland to Oman and Sweden to Kuwait. He also joined the boards of Nasdaq, Global Crossing, Cendant and Head Sports.
"Bill Cohen can call on a head of state or a former minister," said Timothy J. Waters, managing partner at McDermott. "They will take a call from Cohen, and they won't take one from one of our partners. At least we can get an audience to make a point for our clients."
The arrangement has already paid off. "It's only been 100 days," Mr. Waters said, "but we've picked up new clients because of their awareness of our relationship with Bill."
Fleishman-Hillard, the public relations firm, pays Mr. Cohen for being on its advisory board and lets him use Fleishman's offices around the world. In return, Mr. Cohen will recommend Fleishman to his clients, and vice versa.
Last February, Mr. Cohen appeared on a panel in Washington dissecting the election for potential Fleishman clients. At Thayer Capital, Mr. Cohen is vice chairman of the firm's advisory board and will try to find investment opportunities and raise money. In return, Mr. Cohen will be able to invest in Thayer deals.
"We're looking for opportunities that will be mutually productive," said Mr. Malek of the Thayer Group.
Just down the street from Mr. Cohen's business in Washington is the office of Mr. Berger, the former national security adviser. He has just founded Stonebridge International, which has a strategic alliance with Lehman Brothers on Wall Street and with Hogan & Hartson, the Washington law firm where Mr. Berger once worked.
Mr. Holbrooke, a Wall Streeter turned diplomat, and James A. Johnson, former chief executive of Fannie Mae, the quasi-public finance agency, recently joined Perseus L.L.C., a merchant bank and private equity fund, as vice chairmen. In Washington, Mr. Kennard, the former F.C.C. chairman, joined the Carlyle Group as a managing director in its telecommunications practice. He was elected a director of The New York Times Company on May 15.
Mr. Berger, who is being joined by the former United States ambassador to Brazil, Anthony S. Harrington, is lining up about 15 clients on retainer, among them Duke Energy, and is being paid as an international consultant to Hogan & Hartson. He is also a paid senior adviser to Lehman Brothers and will get a fee from business that he does with Lehman.
"I have sat at the center of things for the last eight years," Mr. Berger said in an interview. "I have seen where economic and political developments are going and am familiar with the leaders and how they make decisions. To me, this is a continuation of what I've been doing in my career, which is to open markets and develop business."
Besides, to these former officials, after the pressure of working in the Clinton administration, business seems tamer. Mr. Cohen said the high-intensity 18-hour days in government made his work in starting a business seem like a slowing down.
"You are not dealing with life-and- death decisions, but commercial ones," he said. "You are not going to be woken up in the middle of the night and told that marines have been killed or that we bombed the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. Except for all the commercial travel, this is a lot easier."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on May 23 with an article about former public officials who have have gone into the business of providing advice to executives omitted a post once held by Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative under the first President George Bush. She was also secretary of housing and urban development under President Gerald Ford.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Cohen Group" William S. Cohen: PUBLIC CAREER -- Representative from Maine (Republican), 1973-79; senator, 1979-1997; secretary of defense, Clinton Administration, 1997-2001. NOW -- Chairman of the Cohen Group, a global business consulting firm.; William Cohen's firm is promoting his government experience. As defense secretary, he visited Vietnam in 2000, above, and Kuwait in 1999, above far left. At left, he is with President Bill Clinton in 1999.; William S. Cohen, the former defense secretary, seated, started the Cohen Group after leaving office in January. With him, from left, are Robert Tyrer, the firm's president and chief operating officer; H. K. Park, a senior associate; and James M. Bodner, the senior vice president. (Agence France-Presse); (Linda Spillers for The New York Times); (Associated Press) Chart: "Experience Pays"Since leaving office, a number of former high-level government officials have gone into the business of providing advice to business executives in doing deals and navigating the global economy. Here are a few examples. KISSINGER MCLARTY ASSOCIATES Henry A. Kissinger, chairmanPUBLIC CAREER -- National security adviser, 1969-75; secretary of state, 1973-77. Thomas F. (Mack) McLarty III, vice chairmanPUBLIC CAREER -- President Clinton's chief of staff, 1993-94; senior adviser to President Clinton, 1994-98. THE CARLYLE GROUP Frank C. Carlucci, chairmanPUBLIC CAREER -- Deputy director, Central Intelligence Agency, 1978-81; secretary of defense, 1987-89. James A. Baker, senior counselorPUBLIC CAREER -- President Reagan's chief of staff, 1981-85; secretary of the treasury, 1985-88; secretary of state, 1989-1992; President Bush's chief of staff, 1992-93. HILLS & COMPANY Carla A. Hills, chairwomanPUBLIC CAREER -- U.S. trade representative, 1989-93. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ETHICS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%) CORPORATIONS; CONSULTANTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) COHEN GROUP

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (56%); BX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (52%); PETE PETERSON (50%) COHEN, WILLIAM S; WAYNE, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



642 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Lifting Iraqi Controls Is Delayed 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 22 

 BODY:
Russia threw an unexpected roadblock today in the path of an American and British proposal to allow free trade in civilian goods with Iraq while tightening controls on military imports.
 On the first day of Security Council debate on the plan, Sergey Lavrov, the Russian ambassador, produced a counterproposal that would put off a decision for six months. China and France also cautioned against haste, threatening to derail or stall Council action well beyond the June 3 deadline set by Britain, the sponsor of the resolution, and the United States. 
 By that date, the Council must extend -- or revamp -- the program that allows Iraq to sell unlimited quantities of oil to pay for the needs of its civilian population, who are living under sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. 
The proposal to lift controls on the import of civilian goods, and to make travel to Iraq easier, was intended to rob President Saddam Hussein of the excuse that foreigners are to blame for the suffering of ordinary Iraqis. A major objection to the proposal appears to be over a list of prohibited imports, which the United States is compiling. Apart from arms, Washington wants to restrict imports of certain technologies, communications equipment and some other goods.
Western diplomats hope that the Russian move is just an opening bid in what will be long and tough negotiations.
Mr. Lavrov said after the Council meeting that he was not rejecting the British and American proposal. "On the contrary," he said. "We want a serious -- and I stress a serious -- and constructive discussion of the U.K. draft, but we feel even at this stage that this will involve more time than is left before June 4," the date the next phase of the "oil for food" program would begin. 
"We've seen the proposal by the United Kingdom to have what the U.K. representative himself called a new concept, a radically new regime, and we have quite a number of questions, starting with a list, which we are invited to endorse and which is not yet made available." 
The French, who have apparently seen an early version of the list and decided that it was too broad, say it would be foolish to push ahead without consensus on the Security Council, or at least among the five permanent members -- Britain, Russia, China, France and the United States -- because a divided Council is weak in the face of Iraqi defiance. Also, any of those members, if isolated, could veto a resolution. 
Ambassador Shen Guofang, China's deputy representative, said he had sent the American and British proposal, which he described as "quite complicated," back to Beijing for review. "We need more time to study the resolution," he said, adding that it would be handed to technical experts while officials consulted with other governments. 
"But I doubt we can reach any consensus shortly," he said. He predicted that the current oil sales program would be continued in its present form while discussions go on, seeming to support the Russian stand. 
James B. Cunningham, the acting American representative on the Security Council, said after the meeting today that the United States was refining the list of suspect items and that he saw little reason for delay. "The concept and thrust is clear," he said. "It should be negotiable before the end of this phase." 
The next two weeks will be critical for the Iraq proposal, one of the Bush administration's first initiatives here. But the administration is still operating without a permanent representative at the United Nations and has not explained why it has not sent its nomination of John Negroponte to the Senate for confirmation. Other positions at the American Mission are also waiting to be filled. 
Many diplomats say that unless the White House and State Department are willing to engage in high-level negotiating on behalf of this Iraq resolution, the United States may face another setback here only a few weeks after losing seats on the United Nations Human Rights Commission and International Narcotics Control Board. 
While the British-American plan for Iraq would remove any remaining restrictions on trade in consumer goods and material for rebuilding public services, it would retain control of Iraqi oil profits through United Nations-administered escrow accounts. Iraq must draw on those for purchases. Some of that money is set aside for war reparations, for the Kurds in the north and for United Nations expenses. 
In general, sanctions imposed after Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait, and reaffirmed in 1991 after the gulf war, cannot be suspended or fully lifted until the Iraqis allow arms inspectors to return. 
The last inspectors in Iraq were withdrawn by the United Nations Special Commission in December 1998, ahead of American and British bombing. After a year of stalemate, during which Iraq did not permit the return of inspectors, a new system, the United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission, was created by the Security Council. Iraq has barred its inspectors also. 
This week, Iraqi officials said they would not cooperate with a new "oil for food" program either. Western diplomats say Iraq's acceptance or rejection is irrelevant to the Council's action. But in Baghdad on Monday, Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz threatened to suspend the "oil for food" program entirely and to stop pumping oil. 
Secretary General Kofi Annan, who met with the Security Council today to discuss the Middle East, said he hoped that would not happen. "If Iraq were to stop the program or refuse to participate in the program, the Secretariat will have no means of providing assistance to the Iraqi people," he said. "We use the resources from the sale of the oil to do that." 
Mr. Annan said he hoped that the program would continue, since the effort was intended to help the Iraqi people. "But if Iraq were to turn off the taps," he said, "then we'd be in a very serous situation." Iraq has exported more than $40 billion in oil since the current program began in 1996. Yet it continues to stall in ordering needed supplies, according to a report covering the last six months and submitted to the Security Council by Mr. Annan on May 18. 
"Much to my regret," he wrote, as of May 14 "the office of the Iraq program had not received a single application in the sectors of health, education, water and sanitation and oil spare parts." Orders for housing, electricity, transportation, communications, food handling and agriculture fell below targets. 
On the other hand, the report said that nearly 18 percent of the total value of contracts sent to the sanctions committee for review had been blocked by Council members. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about efforts at the United Nations to block the new British-American proposal on regulating trade with Iraq referred incorrectly to the nomination of John Negroponte as American ambassador to the organization. The White House has indeed acted; it sent the nomination to the Senate on May 14.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); VETO (77%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAQ; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%) UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%) LAVROV, SERGEY (AMB); CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (92%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; FRANCE; 

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



643 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Moving the United Nations, But Keeping the Benefits

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
AS it does every now and then, New York City settled yesterday on a foreign policy that does not quite match the one shaped by Washington, which fancies itself as speaking for Americans on international affairs.
 Taiwan is a country, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani suggested after meeting in Midtown with the visiting Taiwanese president, Chen Shui-bian. The only problem, as the mayor acknowledged, is that the United States has not recognized Taiwan as a country for more than two decades. 
 What are you going to do? Long before Mr. Giuliani arrived on the scene, New York mayors saw no reason to fall reflexively in lock step with the foreign policy muck-a-mucks in Washington. Some things are too important to leave to the professionals. 
That independent streak on international matters brings us to the sermon of the day. It deals with the United Nations, a source of irritation as well as pride for New Yorkers.
Right now, Americans are not exactly brimming with affection for that organization, given the heave-ho that they got this month from the United Nations Human Rights Commission. New York could lead the charge for America by encouraging the United Nations to do something that some, including a mayor or two, have suggested for a long time: 
Move.
Not out of the country, or even to another American city. This move would be rather modest, taking the United Nations from its perch along the East River and relocating it on Governors Island, the unused former military base in New York Harbor.
That way, red-meat American patriots could claim to have sent the United Nations a powerful message, by isolating it more than it is now on the far eastern reaches of Manhattan. At the same time, the city would not have to forgo the substantial benefits that the diplomats provide.
It is the conceit of New Yorkers that the diplos need us more than we need them, that the foreigners do nothing all day but pop into overpriced restaurants and look for places to double-park. Conveniently overlooked in the stereotyping is the fact that the United Nations helps fill our pockets. It generates, by the city's own estimates, more than $3 billion a year in economic activity.
With a shift to Governors Island, that money can be preserved (most of it anyway -- some East Side restaurants would lose lunch traffic). And there would be important pluses, as Carol Goldberg of Syosset, N.Y., pointed out in a letter to this newspaper last September, when the United Nations was holding its "millennium summit."
Traffic jams would be eased on the East Side, she said. When there are huge gatherings, arriving world leaders could be flown directly by helicopter from the airports to the United Nations complex.
Security, always a worry, would be more manageable on Governors Island. And instead of staring at the Pepsi-Cola sign in Long Island City, as they do now, delegates and visitors would enjoy "inspiring views," in Ms. Goldberg's words, of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. 
NOR is any of this a radical thought. As far back as the 1940's, Governors Island was Mayor William O'Dwyer's site recommendation for the nascent world organization.
Maybe it's time. The alternative seems to be endless squabbling among local, state and federal authorities over what to do with the island. Besides, the United Nations headquarters is run-down.
Its roofs leak. It lacks a decent sprinkler system. Asbestos must be removed. Space is inadequate. "Clearly, we've been living on borrowed time," said Joseph E. Connor, the under secretary general for management, who estimated that getting the place in shape would cost nearly $1 billion.
With that much money at stake, why not start from scratch on Governors Island? Granted, no one at the United Nations is clamoring to move. "It's a matter of being content where we are, with a building that's instantly recognized all over the world," Mr. Connor said.
But Mr. Giuliani is not without persuasive powers. A few years ago, he managed to get some of the worst diplomatic offenders to start obeying New York's traffic rules. Perhaps he could apply his talents to this issue. As an incentive for him, the name could be changed to Mayors Island.
He'd probably like that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); RELOCATIONS (65%); HELICOPTERS (60%) RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (95%) NEW YORK CITY; GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



644 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Calls Taiwan a 'Country' During Leader's Visit 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani met yesterday morning with the president of Taiwan, referred afterward to the island of 22 million people as a "remarkable country," then scoffed at Chinese reporters who heatedly asked if the mayor planned to recognize Taiwan as its own nation. 
 "Well, I don't get to recognize countries," an exasperated Mr. Giuliani said at a City Hall news conference after his meeting with the Taiwanese leader, Chen Shui-bian, at the Waldorf Towers. "I'm not the State Department." He added, "And the State Department said it was O.K. to visit with him. So, you can now go out and make a big deal out of it in some distorted way if you want. That's your job." 
 Mr. Giuliani's press secretary, Sunny Mindel, said later that the mayor's reference to Taiwan as a country was "a manner of speaking" and not a political statement at odds with the United States policy of recognizing only one Chinese government. A State Department official shrugged off the mayor's remarks. "Rudy Giuliani doesn't represent U.S. policy," said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Although the United States does not recognize Taiwan as a country, critics of China, among them many Republicans, often refer to it as one.
Mr. Giuliani's comments, and Mr. Chen's visit to New York City, come at a delicate time in relations between Washington and Beijing.
Last month President Bush seemed to upgrade relations with Taiwan when he said that the United States would do "whatever it takes" to defend it, but he also said later that Taiwan should not declare independence or provoke an attack by China. His administration later gave Mr. Chen, over angry Chinese opposition, permission to stop briefly in the United States on his way to and from Latin America.
But the official position of the United States government is that the visit is unofficial, even though more than two dozen members of Congress took an Air Force jet from Andrews Air Force base outside Washington on Monday evening to have dinner with Mr. Chen at the Waldorf Towers. "He certainly seemed to be enjoying the fact that he had freedom of movement and that he was being treated like a world leader," said Representative Peter King of Long Island, a Republican, who was there. "Unlike the last time, when he was treated like he was under house arrest."
Mr. King was referring to Mr. Chen's last pass through the United States, in August, when the Clinton administration sequestered him in his hotel room in Los Angeles and discouraged members of Congress from visiting him.
Still, Mr. Chen moved about the city yesterday like a world leader who was under an order of silence, which he was in effect. He held no news conferences and made no public statements. Even Mr. Giuliani was whisked into an 8 a.m. meeting with Mr. Chen without speaking to reporters who stood in a rain-drenched clump on the sidewalk.
Mr. Chen was then driven to the New York Stock Exchange, where his limousine sped by reporters waiting outside the main entrance and turned a corner to let the president in the side door. Mr. Chen was given a tour of the old and new trading floors by Richard A. Grasso, the exchange's chairman, who did not return a call seeking comment. Later in the day, Mr. Chen toured the Jacqueline Kennedy exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but not with Philippe de Montebello, the museum's director, who was said to be in internal meetings.
"This has never been portrayed as an official visit," said Harold Holzer, the museum's spokesman.
Mr. Giuliani, who noted in his news conference that he was friendly with him from Mr. Chen's days as mayor of Taipei, said much of the meeting was devoted to discussions of expanding economic relationships between Taiwan and New York.
"Taiwan is a remarkable country when you consider the size of the country, the population, and what it's able to produce and the economy it's been able to build and grow," Mr. Giuliani said. He added that Taiwan was "a great and strong ally of the United States, and an outpost of democracy."
China's anger at Mr. Chen's visit is likely to be heightened by another event today, a scheduled meeting between President Bush and the Dalai Lama, Tibet's exiled spiritual leader. China controls Tibet and resents any official recognition of the Dalai Lama or his cause. Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said yesterday that "the president considers the Dalai Lama an important spiritual and religious leader and looks forward to his visit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan, outside the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where he toured the Jacqueline Kennedy exhibition yesterday. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); CITIES (79%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); AIR FORCES (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); HOUSE ARREST (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PETER T KING (51%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CHEN SHUI-BIAN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) TAIWAN; NEW YORK CITY; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



645 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Dogged Fight by Senate Democrats Delays Tax Cut Bill 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22 

 BODY:
Lacking the votes to block the $1.35 trillion tax cut moving through Congress, Democrats in the Senate delayed its passage today to make their argument one final time that the plan was fiscally irresponsible and excessively tilted to the wealthy.
 Democrats offered dozens of amendments, each of which went down to defeat, gumming up what Republicans had hoped would be a quick path to passage for the tax measure. 
 By the end of the day, Republicans were increasingly pessimistic about reaching their goal of completing work on the bill and sending it to President Bush for his signature by the end of the week.
For Republicans, the job will only become more complicated if Senator James M. Jeffords, Republican of Vermont, switches parties on Wednesday. 
After working through amendments until just before midnight on Monday, weary senators trooped on and off the Senate floor for votes on Democratic amendments until the chamber adjourned this evening. While intended in part to make a political point about the differences in priorities between the parties, the amendments also seemed designed simply to frustrate the Republicans and Mr. Bush.
On that score, the Democrats succeeded. By insisting on votes on amendments through the evening, Democrats forced Republicans to miss a Republican National Committee gala fund-raising dinner with President Bush.
"I want the Congress to pass tax relief now," Mr. Bush told reporters at the White House. "Congress ought to stop delay and move forward."
Democratic leaders were unapologetic.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said, "These issues are too important to say we ought to, just for the convenience of the Senate or the convenience of somebody, try to finish up because it's a neat way to do it by Memorial Day."
The Democratic amendments sought to pare parts of the tax cut, especially those primarily aiding upper-income people, and to provide more money for health care, education and tax provisions that would benefit lower-income people.
But Democrats repeatedly came up short. A proposal by Mr. Daschle to replace the $1.35 trillion tax cut with a $900 billion plan was defeated, with 58 votes against it and 41 in favor. Nine Democrats voted against Mr. Daschle's plan, suggesting that they would join nearly all of the Senate's 50 Republicans to pass the $1.35 trillion plan.
Mr. Daschle offered another amendment to reduce the top tax rate to 38.6 percent from 39.6 percent rather than to the 36 percent in the bill, and to use the savings to expand the 15 percent tax bracket. The vote on that amendment was 50 to 50. Under Senate rules an amendment is defeated on a tie vote. 
Republicans said Democrats were playing politics with the economy by holding up passage of the bill, which contains $100 billion in tax cuts for this year and next that Republicans say would help ward off a recession.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, said it was "important to get this tax relief package done as soon as possible, without trying to just put a day or a week on it, because it is going to be good for job security and for the economy."
Even before voting on the bill, Republicans were at work on the next stage of their effort, working out differences between the Senate and House versions. After the chambers reconcile their tax bills, they will vote on a final bill that would then be sent to the White House. 
"I think that we know pretty much where the conference may be able to go," Mr. Lott. 
Republicans in the House would like the top income tax rate to come down closer to the 33 percent proposed by Mr. Bush. They would also like to scale back or eliminate a provision in the Senate bill that would allow low-income workers who do not pay any federal income taxes to receive part of the child credit. Under both the House and Senate versions, the child credit would gradually double, to $1,000.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, said the House negotiators would be flexible about reducing the top rate if the final bill included provisions permitting upper-income taxpayers to claim more deductions and credits. 
The delays were clearly creating tension on both sides of the aisle. Senators spoke openly of the strain of the long series of votes on some of their frailer colleagues. 
Late Monday night, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, offered to allow Senator Strom Thurmond, the 98-year-old Republican from South Carolina, to go home; Mr. Biden said he would offset Mr. Thurmond's absence by not casting his own vote, but the Senate adjourned soon afterward.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Christopher J. Dodd, Byron L. Dorgan, Tom Daschle and Hillary Rodham Clinton, above, left to right, made the case against the tax cut measure for the Democrats yesterday. Meanwhile, the Republicans, represented in their own Capitol Hill news conference by Senators Larry E. Craig, Charles E. Grassley, Rick Santorum and Kay Bailey Hutchison, defended the $1.35 trillion tax bill. (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%) TAXATION; ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); RICK SANTORUM (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



646 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Bush vs. the American Landscape 

BYLINE:  By Robert Redford; Robert Redford, the actor and director, is a board member of the Natural Resources Defense Council.

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
Listening to President Bush's speech on energy last week left me yearning for a straight story. His rhetoric seemed intended either to frighten or to lull one into a false sense of security. It didn't help that as he presented an energy plan -- developed with help from lobbyists for oil, coal, gas, mining and nuclear power -- the president buttoned up his speech by asking all of us to stop bickering, to set a new tone and listen to each other. Since Vice President Dick Cheney refused even to meet with environmental groups, it seems a rather curious, if not disingenuous, request.
 Mr. Bush made it sound so simple. Build tens of thousands of miles of new pipelines, hundreds of oil and gas wells, and more than a thousand new power plants, and it will again be "morning in America." He claims it can be done with little impact. Drilling in the Arctic, off our beaches or anywhere determined to be "necessary" is a harmless matter, he says, thanks to new technologies that render the whole enterprise environmentally friendly. This is simply untrue. 
 Mr. Cheney has been making a point of telling anyone who will listen that the federal government hasn't granted a new nuclear power permit in 20 years. Nobody has applied for one. Three Mile Island served as a cautionary tale that even the most aggressive corporate energy interests could not ignore. Until now. The president's support for nuclear power is boldly presented with nary a nod to inherent risks associated with nuclear waste, nuclear weapons material or power plant accidents.
A look behind the rhetoric reveals that at the heart of the Bush energy plan are proposals to weaken longstanding environmental safeguards. Americans fought hard over the last three decades for these protections. But the Bush plan holds the corporate energy lobby in higher esteem than ordinary Americans who breathe the air, drink the water and overwhelmingly support protecting our wilderness. Coal and oil companies, despite record profits, now seek enormous new taxpayer subsidies and relief from environmental safeguards as payback for their campaign support.
Drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is but a piece of a plan that makes oil and gas exploration and development fair game on nearly all of our public lands, even extraordinary places that were awarded protection as national monuments by the previous administration. The Upper Missouri Breaks in Montana, Grand Staircase-Escalante monument in Utah, and Vermillion Basin in northwestern Colorado may all become subject to exploitation. It's nonsense to think new oil and gas exploration and development won't destroy these incomparable wild places.
Why not tighten fuel economy standards instead? This alone could, over the next 50 years, free up 15 times as much oil as could be produced by drilling in the Arctic, and it would benefit consumers much faster. The administration wants merely to "study" this option. More study? Well, we know what that means. For electricity, simply supporting the higher air conditioner efficiency standards proposed by the previousadministration would save 13,000 megawatts during periods of peak demand in 2020, equivalent to the output of dozens of power plants.
Thirty years ago, corporate America danced across the nation dumping toxic waste into our rivers, spewing chemicals into our air and ravaging pristine public lands, all in the name of progress. In response to the horrific environmental damage of the postwar era, a broad coalition of Americans began working to represent public health, safety and environmental concerns in all levels of government. Now we face an administration trying to unravel this work.
Unfortunately, we have the examples of Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, the Exxon Valdez accident and innumerable studies proving pollution's ill effect on public health to demonstrate that the stakes could hardly be higher. Solid science clearly shows that global warming exists and that the administration's drill, dig and burn approach will only make it worse. I continue to hope for a reasonable dialogue that actually includes the environmental community, but the administration's posture suggests that is unlikely. If he does not make environmental concerns central to his energy policy, President Bush may well leave the next generation with nothing but ashes to stand in.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); WILDLIFE (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); NUCLEAR WASTE (71%); WILDERNESS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (73%) REDFORD, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



647 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese See 1-2 Punch in Asian Visits 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 22 

 BODY:
It is just a coincidence, of course, that President Bush will have a well-publicized "private meeting" with the Dalai Lama on, of all days, May 23. 
 The meeting was condemned today by Chinese officials, who have spent the last week extolling May 23 as an important anniversary in the "liberation" of Tibet. They have also been shrilly denouncing the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader, as a wicked proponent of serfdom and a "scum" who wants to split the motherland. 
 A government spokesman urged American leaders to "stop interfering in China's internal affairs" by permitting official meetings with the Dalai Lama, and warned of "harm to Chinese-American relations" from further coddling of a separatist. 
The scheduled White House meeting follows another act this week that China saw as a deliberate jab in the eye -- the Bush administration's decision to allow a high-profile three-day stopover in New York by Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, including an unprecedented dinner meeting on Monday night with about 20 members of Congress. 
Under the original 1970's agreement by which the United States recognized the leadership in Beijing as the sole government of China, Washington is supposed to avoid high official contacts with Taiwanese leaders. At the Foreign Ministry today, the same spokesman who condemned the Dalai Lama's welcome had equally harsh words for the Chen visit, charging that it violates bilateral agreements and has "inflamed the arrogance of the independence forces on Taiwan." 
The White House announced Monday that Mr. Bush would meet the Dalai Lama in a private capacity, because he is a "Nobel laureate and a world-renowned spiritual leader." 
While President Clinton also met the Dalai Lama, Mr. Clinton only did so in a brief, supposedly unscheduled encounter as the Dalai Lama visited others. With the trumpeted meeting on Wednesday, the Bush administration, in Chinese eyes, is worsening its crime. 
Wednesday is also the anniversary of the ill-fated 1951 agreement between Chinese Communists and beleaguered Tibetan leaders. China now commemorates that agreement, which followed the Communist army's victory over Tibetan forces, as "the peaceful liberation of Tibet," while the Dalai Lama and his supporters say it was signed at gunpoint and soon invalidated by China's heavy-handed tactics. 
China long asserted some form of sovereignty over the Tibetan plateau but its actual control varied through the centuries. Under the so-called 17-point agreement signed in Beijing on May 23, 1951, with a Tibetan leader, the young Communist government officially incorporated Tibet into the new nation and asserted its right to send in troops. But it also promised to allow the region autonomy in social and religious affairs. 
The two sides differ on what caused the deepening conflicts in the years that followed, but in 1959, as the Chinese suppressed a major uprising by Tibetans in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, the 14th Dalai Lama fled to exile in India and repudiated the 1951 agreement as having been coerced. 
After that, China abandoned elements of the agreement, imposing Communist administration on the region. Then, especially in the decade of Mao's Cultural Revolution, 1966 to 1976, the Tibetan religion was suppressed, with many monks imprisoned or killed and temples destroyed. 
In the last two decades of "reform and opening up," China has allowed a controlled revival of Tibetan religion and even aided the rebuilding of monasteries, though it has also continually waged war on popular allegiance to the Dalai Lama, and tensions remain high. 
China now trumpets the 1951 agreement as validating its rule over Tibet and the economic and cultural changes it has wrought, notes the Tibetan Information Network, a London-based group that supports the Dalai Lama.
In conjunction with public ceremonies planned in Lhasa, Chinese and Tibetans throughout the country this week have been subjected to an especially intense propaganda campaign intended to discredit the exiled leader and to glorify the achievements under Communist rule. 
"Betrayers of the motherland and the scum of the nation are not welcome at the temple and the Dalai Lama is one of them," a lama at the Zhaxi Lhunbo lamasery, one of six major temples of the Dalai's own sect, is quoted as saying in a typical article suggesting that Tibetans have rejected the Dalai's leadership. Chinese authorities have removed any lamas who overtly support the Dalai Lama. 
Articles have blamed Tibet's poverty on "the jeopardizing activities of the Dalai Lama clique and anti-China forces in the West." But they have also described enormous economic progress in recent years, asserting that the region has maintained an economic growth rate of 12.9 percent for the last six years and that only 2.7 percent of Tibet's people now live below the poverty line, a line China sets at $72 a year a person. 
A May 14 article in the Liberation Army Daily waxed about the cruelty and backwardness of Tibet before the Communist liberation and had this to say about the exiled leader: "Facts have amply proven that the Dalai is the chief representative of the feudal serf-owning class in Tibet, the chief ringleader of the national separatists inside and outside the border and the loyal tool of the Western anti-China forces." 
In yet another step that has annoyed Chinese leaders, Mr. Bush has appointed the highest-level official yet to serve as coordinator for Tibetan issues, a position created by Congress to promote dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama and to work to protect Tibetan identity. 
Paula J. Dobriansky, the new under secretary of state for global affairs, will also be the Tibet coordinator, the administration recently announced. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARMIES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); RELIGION (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (57%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TIBET-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DALAI LAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; DALAI LAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHEN SHUI-BIAN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (95%); TAIWAN (94%) TIBET; TAIWAN; CHINA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



648 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Power Gains in Status After Lobbying 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22 

 BODY:
As the White House was putting together the energy plan that President Bush released last week, there had been almost no talk of nuclear power as a component of the nation's energy strategy. The nuclear industry thought this was a glaring omission, and a handful of top nuclear industry officials decided they needed to take their case to the administration. 
 In mid-March, a cadre of seven nuclear power executives sought and won an hourlong meeting in the White House with Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser. Also attending were Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's top economic adviser, Andrew Lundquist, the executive director of Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force, and others involved in devising the energy plan. 
 "We said, Look, we are an important player on this energy team and here are our vital statistics, and we think that you should start talking about nuclear when you talk about increasing the nation's supply," Christian H. Poindexter, chairman of the Constellation Energy Group, recalled today.
And then a surprising thing happened.
"It was shortly after that, as a matter of fact I think the next night, when the vice president was being interviewed on television, he began to talk about nuclear power for the first time," Mr. Poindexter said.
Mr. Cheney first discussed nuclear power as an alternative to dirtier fossil fuels in a March 21 interview on CNBC. "If you want to do something about carbon dioxide emissions," he said, "then you ought to build nuclear power plants because they don't emit any carbon dioxide, they don't emit greenhouse gases." 
Mr. Cheney had missed the meeting with nuclear executives because he was on Capitol Hill, talking to members of Congress who themselves were pushing nuclear energy.
In a quick chain reaction, Mr. Cheney put the long-maligned nuclear power industry back on the political map. In the energy plan released last week, the administration breathed new life into the industry, declaring nuclear technology, which provides 20 percent of the nation's electricity, much safer than it was 20 years ago.
Today, Mr. Cheney appeared before 350 nuclear industry executives meeting in Washington -- 100 more than showed up at last year's annual meeting of the Nuclear Energy Institute -- and told them the administration wanted to encourage the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to expedite applications for new reactors, relicense existing plants and "increase the resources devoted to safety and enforcement as we prepare to increase nuclear generating capacity in the future." He said the administration also wanted to renew the Price-Anderson Act, which limits nuclear plant operators' liability in case of an accident.
Mr. Poindexter is still incredulous. "In my wildest dreams, when I was over at the White House in March, I couldn't imagine them getting so behind us," he said.
He was skeptical for good reason. Few industries have enjoyed the kind of renaissance that nuclear power may be poised to undergo. Accidents at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania and Chernobyl in Ukraine seemed to seal the industry's fate as too dangerous, too uncontrollable and too expensive to win back a frightened public or secure the financial backing of Wall Street.
The last nuclear power plant to enter operation was ordered in 1973. There still is no solution to the vexing problem of nuclear waste storage. And while recent polling shows that Americans more lopsidedly oppose dirtier fossil fuels than they oppose nuclear power, they still do not want to live near nuclear power plants.
For those wary of a nuclear revival, these problems are no less real today than they were two decades ago.
"The Bush administration should at most be looking to proceed with what the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was planning -- an orderly phase-out of existing power plants," said Paul L. Leventhal, president of the Nuclear Control Institute and co-director of the Senate investigation into the 1979 accident at Three Mile Island. "Instead, they're talking about a new rebirth, and it frankly just doesn't make sense."
The Union of Concerned Scientists, using data from the industry itself, says that aging plants have experienced eight forced shutdowns in the last 16 months.
And Mr. Leventhal said that replacing coal with nuclear power would not appreciably diminish global warming because most of the pollutants that cause global warming come from cars and trucks. 
Another problem, and one that Mr. Cheney fully acknowledges, is the lack of a national repository for the storage of nuclear waste. In his speech today, the vice president warned that the lack of a storage site could be a deal killer. Without a site, he said, "eventually the contribution we can count on from the nuclear industry will, in fact, decline."
The storage problem will not be solved at Yucca Mountain in Nevada, if Nevada politicians and the gambling industry have anything to say about it. Senators Harry Reid, a Democrat, and John Ensign, a Republican, have made opposition to nuclear waste dumping in their state their priority.
"Until they get the waste problem solved," Mr. Reid said, "nothing's going to happen on nuclear power." 
Peter Bradford, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, who now teaches energy policy at Yale, said that apart from the safety issues, nuclear power was economically problematic.
"The types of long-term investment necessary to sustain nuclear energy are going to prove very hard to find in this kind of volatile marketplace," Mr. Bradford said.
Still, there are cheerleaders. One is Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who heads the Energy and Commerce Committee. He spoke today at the Nuclear Energy Institute's annual meeting and summed up the surprise that others feel at the recent turn of events.
"As we gather here in Washington," Mr. Tauzin said, "who would have thunk that we'd be discussing the possibility of nuclear construction in this country?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (86%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LITIGATION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (70%) ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENERGY AND POWER 

COMPANY: EXELON CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%) NUCLEAR ENERGY INSTITUTE; NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 

TICKER: EXC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (89%); KARL ROVE (73%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROVE, KARL; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; LUNDQUIST, ANDREW; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001 



649 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: For One Web Site, Some Explaining to Do 

BYLINE:  By LISA GUERNSEY 

DATELINE: CARY, N.C. 

 BODY:
MARSHALL BRAIN cannot sit still. When he sits in meetings for his company HowStuffWorks, his left leg pulses restlessly. When he talks, his hands are always busy -- twisting a rubber band, playing with pocket pliers or massaging a Swiss Army knife he has kept for 20 years. Its red paint has worn to a shiny silver. 
 But at least one project stops Mr. Brain, 40, from fidgeting: the act of taking something apart. On a recent Thursday he appeared almost serene as he took a power screwdriver in hand, removed the plastic casing from a wheeled toy robot and gazed at the gears and circuit boards inside. 
 "Look," Mr. Brain said, running his hands over the robot's wheels. "It's actually four-wheel drive."
Fortunately for Mr. Brain, a growing audience shares his curiosity. Three years ago, Mr. Brain created the HowStuffWorks Web site (www.howstuffworks.com), which explains, in depth, the inner workings of almost anything. This month, for example, the site's topics include "How Roller Coasters Work," "How Four-Wheel-Drive Systems Work," "How Night Vision Works" and a popular recent addition, "How Human Reproduction Works." 
More than 500,000 people a month visit the site, according to Jupiter Media Metrix, and in the past two years, the site has won awards from education and technology groups. Educators may have their pick of smaller Web sites to use in class, said Gerry Wheeler, executive director of the National Association of Science Teachers, but "they don't have the quality control or sustainability that HowStuffWorks does." 
Mr. Brain, who never tires of explaining that, yes, Brain is his real surname, is something of a role model among Web masters, someone who built a home page out of a personal passion only to find a worldwide audience interested in his work. A former computer programmer, he started the Web site as a part-time project in 1998, writing his first article from the kitchen table at his farmhouse in Zebulon, N.C., occasionally gazing out the window at his chicken coop. His first article, "How Car Engines Work," is still one of the Web site's most popular. 
"When I was 16, one of the things that fascinated me most was engines," Mr. Brain said. He once watched his neighbor take a car engine apart, work on it, and then put it back together. "I thought he was a genius," he said. 
Now, as the Web has become more commercially driven, Mr. Brain's Web site continues to be a symbol of the times. He built the site as a free, educational resource but soon realized that it would never be able to grow or pay for equipment to handle the traffic without a source of revenue. In 1999, he turned the site into a for-profit company, became its chief executive, found private investors, hired 35 employees and leased space in an office park here. 
So far, he has tried multiple strategies to make money -- including an online toy store (which he called a flop), banner advertising (which has not been terribly lucrative, either) and a company-sponsored student magazine (two issues of which have been published so far, and which Mr. Brain thinks may hold the most promise). He is also starting to license radio and television programs based on his Web site's content.
HowStuffWorks could be the subject of a yet-to-be-finished feature of its own: How a Dot-Com Works. It is a puzzle that Mr. Brain has not entirely solved, and on the day he dissected the toy robot, he acknowledged that it was on his mind. It had been a good week. An article called "How Lock Picking Works" had surpassed the popularity of the piece on the car engine. (The title spurred debate among his staff members, but the editors decided the catchy title was worth the risk.) The site's operations were running smoothly and its six writers -- including Mr. Brain -- appeared to be hitting their stride. But a business meeting the next day would bring the real test. The subject was whether the company could attract a new group of investors even as the stock market was sinking.
"Will the positive momentum carry through until Friday?" Mr. Brain asked rhetorically, driving his pick-up truck to the farm he shares with his wife, Leigh, and two children. He calls himself an optimist -- a "glass-half-full kind of person" -- but he had already figured out what would happen in a worst-case scenario. "The site goes back to one guy, working part time," he said, matter-of-factly. 
Less than a decade ago, Mr. Brain was a computer-science instructor at North Carolina State University and a software programmer who wrote technical books on the side. In 1997, he wrote and published "The Teenager's Guide to the Real World," to address some of the things he said he wished he had known in high school, where as a slightly geeky teenager he struggled to fit in. His mission in all his writing, he said, is to put technical concepts into terms that can easily be digested by general readers, a technique he has employed more fully on the HowStuffWorks site. 
"It is written in a way that most people understand," said Scott Barber, a seventh-grade science teacher at Roehm Middle School in Berea, Ohio, who calls the Web site "a gold mine." One day last December, for example, Mr. Barber used an article titled "How CD's Work" as a springboard for in-class projects. "It was a magical day in the classroom," he said. 
Mr. Brain seems as if he would be comfortable in a classroom, too -- as a student. On this Thursday, he is wearing jeans and white tennis shoes as he strides past cubicles, strewn with motor parts, loose screws and batteries, where writing projects are in progress. As he talks with his employees, he seems more comfortable asking questions than giving answers. To write an article on how cells work two years ago, he bought a half-dozen biology books, including a 1,300-page college textbook, and chewed over the diagrams for weeks. 
"It took me six months to write that article," Mr. Brain said. "It turns out that we don't know a thing about how cells work." 
More unknowns lie ahead for Mr. Brain. Although the Friday meeting brought good news -- interest from another potential investor -- the future still looks shaky for content-based Web sites, especially those that are free. But complaining about the downturn in the economy -- or anything else, for that matter -- would not be Mr. Brain's style. This is a man who had the foresight to buy the domain name HowStuffDoesntWork but who has said he had no plans to use it. "It would end up as a place that has negative energy," he said. 
Clearly, Mr. Brain is more interested in things that do work. As he turned the toy robot over in his mind, another question started to bother him. "Why do they need five circuit boards in this thing?" he asked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: INQUIRING MIND -- Marshall Brain ponders a rotary engine, one of the many items demystified on his site, HowStuffWorks. (Bob Rives for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (86%); ROBOTICS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: GUERNSEY, LISA; BRAIN, MARSHALL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



650 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: WHO KNEW?; 
Sheer, Summery Curtains For the Gossamer Budget

BYLINE:  By MARIANNE ROHRLICH 

 BODY:
 Susan Kirshenbaum, a headhunter in New York, needed almost a hundred yards of fabric to drape over the windows in her Long Island beach house. "I wanted curtains sheer enough to let some light in, but opaque enough for privacy," she said. 
"And they had to be fluid and blow in the wind." On top of that, she had a very low budget. Humble drapery-lining fabric, either pure cotton or a cotton and polyester blend, met all her requirements. "Lining is perfect for a summery look that is economical," said Stan Fradin, president of Rockland Mills, a manufacturer of the fabric. Treated so it won't fade or discolor, it can be made water-repellent. Some weights will block light and provide some temperature control. Lining is as good for pinch-pleated draperies as for cafe curtains or flat panels. It's available in many colors as well as white, and costs from $3 to $6.50 a yard at Joe's Fabrics Warehouse, 102 Orchard Street (Delancey Street). MARIANNE ROHRLICH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FABRICS (91%); BEACHES (88%) CURTAINS 

PERSON: ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



651 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: Making the Most Of a Gift Horse; 
In a Housing Project's Free-Computer Experiment, Wariness Yields to Motivation: It's 'for the Kids'

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
THE mother closed in with the mouse. Her small children crowded by her at the keyboard, their faces aglow from the screen as she clicked on to the attempt at making their grand electronic leap beyond the housing project.
 "This is how you do it, Mom," Kalif, her 5-year-old, authoritatively interrupted Charnita Johnson. But she needed no help, moving through her options with a fierce determination as her 3-month-old, Michael, slept through it all against her breast. 
 The screen shifted kaleidoscopically through a world of possibilities as the unemployed 24-year-old mother made steady progress in one of the more unusual public housing adventures in the country: an experiment to provide poor people like Ms. Johnson not just mastery of mouse and keyboard, but computers of their own. "For the kids," she emphasized as the evening lesson proceeded at the Edgar Allan Poe Homes. 
A good deal was at stake in the class in the project's new Townes at the Terraces complex. Residents were midway through a 20-hour basic course that is the prerequisite for receiving a Dell computer each, fully installed in their apartments. The complex was built with high-speed Internet connections for creation of an electronic village to let residents chat locally or reach out ambitiously to the world. 
"Come on, we can do it," Steven Johnson, the 34-year-old computer instructor at the Poe project, implored as he led Ms. Johnson, no relation, and the rest of his evening class to the crest of a singular experience: the minting of their own e-mail addresses.
Ms. Johnson leaned into the screen, telling Kalif to shush, her face an open study of mixed emotions -- the doubt that her e-mail address could ever happen, the resolve that it must.
The computer came back at her with a gentle crackle of guidance, and Charnita Johnson soon faced her first epiphany on the Internet: There is more than one Charnita in that supposedly alien digital world. She seemed fascinated by this news. She instantly plunged back into the search for an address of her own. 
Soon, click, crackle and she had it: Charnita with a signature wrinkle or two -- an underscore, a J, and there she was. Before her own eyes, she was inviting attention beyond the project.
She beamed handsomely. She pointed at the announcement of her address on the classroom Compaq. But two of her three children, along with a niece, were already responding to her gaze of triumph with a round of cheering. Baby Michael snoozed steadily. He missed a moment that amounted to a commencement party for Ms. Johnson, and perhaps for Michael, too.
"I'm doing it for the certificate," Ms. Johnson said, referring to the certificate of computer literacy that entitles her to the home setup in the prototype program at Poe Homes. The program is intended to boost some of the nation's poorest people into the rich universe of opportunity represented by computers generally and the Internet in particular.
"You know how it is with the kids, and how they need the computer for their future," the mother said. "I just decided I'm going to get this," she added, gently rocking with her baby, still gripping the mouse.
The computer program began with a fanfare when the highly wired Townes complex opened in 1999, as federal and city officials vowed to "close the digital divide" between rich and poor. The task has not been as easy as giving away computers sounds. Only 75 of the 202 households signed up at first; with this odd gift horse at the door glinting esoterically, wariness surfaced.
"In public housing, there's typically some element of distrust and strained relations between the housing authority and the residents," said Jeremiah Griffith, chief operating officer of the Noah Group, a private community services organization running the program. "We spent the first 10 or 11 months trying to address that, and it hasn't been an easy process."
Residents typically wanted to know whether they would lose their place in public housing if the computer broke down. Some wanted to know, conversely, if they had to take the computer to keep their apartment. 
Others did not want to be bothered, said Constance Mayfield, executive director of the program. "In a community like this, even though people are apprised of services, many are not accustomed" to taking advantage of them, Ms. Mayfield said, noting that this was just the sort of problem being sought out in the experiment.
The $1.7 million program, called Hope VI, is being run by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Housing Authority of Baltimore City. Administrators are trying to remedy findings that blacks and Hispanics are far less likely than whites to explore the Internet and that this trend is even stronger in the lower income groups. A Commerce Department study found that in families earning $15,000 to $35,000 annually, 17 percent of whites used the Internet often as opposed to 8 percent of blacks.
In the last six years, the federal housing agency has established about 800 computer learning centers of varying sorts in conjunction with the private sector. Most are in privately owned apartment complexes and offer computer lessons aimed at careers. But Poe is offering a flagship program in providing free machines -- they are actually supplied as an appliance and do not become the residents' property -- in a specially wired public housing setting. 
"It's a generational thing, too," Ms. Mayfield said. "Some kids already are being taught computers in school and so they want them at home. But they have to convince their parents to take the classes."
Eventually, officials went door to door reassuring and enlisting applicants. A survey of residents indicated that greater salesmanship was required, prompting housing authority officials to press harder and focus on some early success stories as word-of-mouth tales to prime demand. 
And over the last few months, attitudes have changed. "Since Christmas it started going much better," Ms. Mayfield said. Residents began wanting the computers as presents for their children. Officials were grateful for this motive. But they held firm to the condition that an adult householder had to have 10 days' training, two hours a day, or there would be no computer to put under the tree.
"I was just stumbling all over the keys," recalled Geraldine Janet Pulley, who said she took the course despite herself. "It was like studying Latin."
Her problem was recognized by Stephanie Roberson, the program director as well as an instructor, as a common one among computer novices. "She was intimidated," Ms. Roberson said. "She thought she was going to hurt the computer."
The lessons are designed to instill a sense of mastery in the residents. Ms. Pulley, a former schoolteacher who had to retire after suffering a stroke, said she eventually got the knack, and a fresh career.
"I learned to laugh," Ms. Pulley said, looking down upon the computer keyboard at the Poe Homes office, where she was recently hired to run a program called Rentroll that tracks rent payments and maintenance needs at 300 apartments. "All of a sudden I was fine. I started to feel good about myself. I was determined not to let this thing defeat me."
Noah Group administrators still have more than 70 boxed computers sitting in their office, waiting for eligible residents who hesitate for a variety of reasons, including onerous commuting and job conditions that can leave them too exhausted for studying. Class hours, accordingly, have been made much more flexible with more inviting schedules for both adults and children. Babies, once forbidden from the adult classes, are now welcomed at sessions, where they punctuate the clicking and tapping with healthy yowls. Mr. Johnson, a new father himself, seems to handle them as just another easily solved glitch at the office. 
For all the admitted start-up problems, the range of activities on a recent day included the half-dozen women taking Mr. Johnson's evening course in the Poe Learning Center, an old power plant converted to classroom space. Upstairs, a group of far more advanced teenagers were happily working overtime as students in the Cisco Networking Academy, a nine-month course sponsored by Cisco Systems, the giant Internet company, designed to net them careers in technology. These students had already built their own computers in this after-school academy and were branching into larger possibilities.
"Routers and switchers," 17-year-old Eugene Hamilton confidently explained, tinkering away as Mr. Johnson went downstairs to begin the literacy course.
"Always something new here, every day," added James Parson, also 17. Both said finding such computer possibilities had changed their lives and their career options. 
"This is a once-in-a-lifetime thing for most of us," Eugene Hamilton said. "We're getting free advanced training that would easily cost thousands of dollars anywhere else." 
The course has led to scores of jobs in the computer industry at $30,000 a year and more, Ms. Roberson said. "That's quite a temptation for an 18-year-old from around here." 
Even so, she insists on taking the students on field trips to Bowie State University and other centers of higher computer education. She and Mr. Johnson urge the Cisco trainees to weigh the inviting job offers against going on to college. College, they emphasize, presents an even larger opportunity to create their own businesses that could offer even more computer jobs to ambitious young people like themselves. 
Down the street from the learning center, Deana Woodard turned her wheelchair to the computer nook in her new Vine Street apartment in the Townes houses. A printed prayer hung over the computer that seemed especially appropriate: "Lord, help me to remember that nothing is going to happen to me today that you and I can't handle." 
Or, for that matter, Ms. Roberson, who stopped by to see how Ms. Woodard's exploration of the Internet was progressing.
"I like to look into the different recipes," said Ms. Woodard, a 57-year-old retired school chef who clicked around a site blossoming with toothsome crab recipes. "It's beautiful," she said of her computer. "I don't think I can do without it."
Ms. Roberson patted her on the back as she typed and clicked.
"I'm not an old hand, but I'll be one soon," Ms. Woodard promised.
At the learning center's basic course, the evening was building toward the magical moment of creating e-mail identities for Mr. Johnson's students. He moved from one computer student to the next, cajoling, insisting, encouraging. "We can do it," he said. "I've got the most common name on the planet. Millions of us, and my address is strictly mine." 
Eugene Hamilton came down from the Cisco room and whispered to his teacher, "I just bugged the whole system." Mr. Johnson, his mind suddenly racing from the problems of e-mail addresses to the advanced unhinging of routers and switchers, quietly stared, a study in digital patience before the cockiness of youth.
Before the teacher could say a word, the student flashed a smile and declared: "Nah, just kidding. We're going great upstairs."
Clearly unruffled, Mr. Johnson turned back to Charnita Johnson's quest for her e-mail address.
"You want to put him down for a while?" he asked the mother of baby Michael.
But Charnita Johnson excitedly declined, exhibiting a kind of symbiotic balance between offspring and mouse as she extracted her new address from the world beyond the project.

GRAPHIC: Photos: DIGITAL LEAP -- Steven Johnson teaches computer repair and networking to Eugene Hamilton and other residents in a program at the Edgar Allan Poe Homes in Baltimore. Deana Woodard (seated, top right), received a computer from the program; Stephanie Roberson, behind her, is the program's director. Edward Smith, Mr. Hamilton, Buddy Potts and James Parson learn together in the computer lab, and Geraldine Pulley puts her new computer skills to work in the housing project's office. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. G5); Buddy Potts (seated), Eugene Hamilton and Edward Smith, of the Poe Homes in Baltimore, with their instructor Steven Johnson. Top, Charnita Johnson seeks a computer literacy certificate. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); CITIES (59%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD); DELL COMPUTER CORP 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%) MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) BALTIMORE (MD)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



652 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Euro Drops On Release Of New Data On Economy 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, May 23 

 BODY:
The European economy showed troubling new signs today of slower growth and faster inflation, a toxic mix that helped drive down the value of the euro to its lowest level this year against the dollar.
 The bad news came from both Germany and France, Europe's two biggest economies; they reinforced the impression that the 12-nation euro zone is much less insulated from the American slowdown than many leaders had asserted. Global demand for European goods is significantly weaker than most experts had predicted just a few months ago, while energy prices are much higher. 
 Germany reported today that economic growth in the first quarter slowed to an annual rate of 1.6 percent, dragged down by a steep decline in investment for machinery and equipment and anemic growth in exports and private consumption. At the same time, data from five German states suggested that consumer prices were climbing at more than 3 percent a year -- much faster than the upper limit set by the European Central Bank. 
France, meanwhile, reported today that its comparatively robust economy had slipped as well, growing at an annualized rate of about 2 percent in the first quarter. Though inflation in France is slower than in most other European countries, it seems to be gathering speed.
Signs of trouble have been showing up elsewhere in Europe as well. The Netherlands, among Europe's growth leaders for much of the last decade, reported a few days ago that its economy virtually stopped expanding in the first quarter, and in neighboring Belgium, where business sentiment often presages developments in the euro zone as a whole, confidence fell to its lowest level in two years.
The mix of trends has made it difficult for the European Central Bank to respond. Unlike the United States Federal Reserve, which has concentrated on combating any slowdown by reducing interest rates five times this year, the European bank has been torn between fears of rising prices and of slumping growth. Two weeks ago, the bank briefly set aside inflation worries and reduced interest rates for the first time this year; today it returned to its previous pattern and left rates unchanged.
All of this amounted to more bad news for the euro, which plumbed new lows for the year against both the dollar and the Japanese yen. Chronically weak since its inception in January 1999, the euro lost nearly a penny in value today, to 85.7 cents in European trading; it began life worth $1.17.
The biggest surprise today was the weakness in French growth, recorded at just 0.5 percent in the first quarter. France spent most of last year growing and adding jobs at its most robust pace in years. Most forecasters expected 3 percent growth this year, even allowing for the effects of an American slowdown. 
The new figures show French consumers continuing to spend at a healthy rate, reflecting the job growth and the tax cuts adopted last year. But exports slipped slightly, and investment in machines and equipment fell significantly. 
"Realism has taken the upper hand in Europe," said Eric Vergnaud, an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. Though Mr. Vergnaud still sees a chance that France can manage a respectable growth rate of about 2.5 percent for the year, he acknowledged that the outlook had deteriorated. "It is time to realize that Europe is not an island," he said. "Things are slowing down, but the slowdown is much more modest than in the United States."
Not necessarily so in Germany, which accounts for one-third of the euro zone's total economic activity. Economists sharply reduced their forecasts for Germany just a few months ago, and many are now doing so again. BNP Paribas expects only 1.5 percent to 1.8 percent growth; Deutsche Bank sees 1.6 percent. "Even this number requires a substantial rebound" in the second half of 2001, Deutsche Bank said today in commenting on the latest data. "The risks remain largely skewed to the downside."
The lurking threat of inflation complicates the equation. Early figures from five of Germany's constituent states suggested that consumer prices here were climbing at an annual rate of 3.5 percent, mainly because of persistent increases in gasoline and food. The biggest reason is the renewed climb in oil prices, which eased slightly late last year but have risen since mid-March. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (68%) CURRENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%) EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



653 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Pentagon pay plan shows that it doesn't always pay to take the money and run.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; This column appears here every Thursday. Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
SUPPOSE your employer hands you a pink slip and offers you a choice: an annual payment of $8,000 a year for 30 years or a lump sum of $50,000 today. Which would you choose? 
 This is not just a hypothetical exercise. When it downsized in the early 1990's, the Defense Department offered many military personnel a similar choice. The military also provided pamphlets and counseling to explain how to make the choice wisely. To the surprise of most economists, the affected personnel rarely followed the military's sound advice. 
 The decision should depend, of course, on how much one values money received today versus tomorrow. A bird in the hand is worth more today than tomorrow, but how much more? The difference between the value an individual places on a dollar received today as opposed to a year from now is called the discount rate.
Standard economic theory says that if capital markets work perfectly, people will borrow or lend until their discount rate equals the market rate for borrowing or lending. Someone with a low discount rate will save money and accumulate interest; someone with a high discount rate will borrow and accumulate debt. This should continue to the point where their personal discount rates equal the market rate. 
Thus, with some justification, the military's pamphlet provided calculations of the present value of the annuity payment using a 7 percent discount rate, the interest rate on money market funds at the time. If the annuity's present value exceeds the value of the lump sum, the annual payment is a better deal.
Capital markets are not perfect, so different people have different discount rates. Someone who is unable to borrow, perhaps because of a bad credit rating, is likely to have a higher discount rate and therefore take the money and run. 
Mounting evidence indicates that most people put excessive weight on a bird in the hand. That $8,000 annual payment is worth more than $106,000 if future income is discounted at 7 percent a year -- more than double the value of the lump sum. If the discount rate is 10 percent, as high as the interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages has been the last decade, the promised $8,000 payment is still worth $83,000. The annual payment is a better deal for anyone who can borrow from a bank.
Yet when the military offered essentially this package, three-quarters of enlisted personnel selected the lump sum, according to an article by John Warner of Clemson University and Saul Pleeter of the Defense Department in the latest issue of The American Economic Review. The authors also examined a number of other separation packages. The break-even discount rate -- or rate that makes the lump sum and annuity payment equivalent -- varied from 17 to 20 percent, depending on years of service and salary. Over all, 92 percent of enlisted personnel and 51 percent of officers chose the lump sum. 
Because the government could borrow at 7 percent at the time, Mr. Warner and Mr. Pleeter calculate that the Treasury saved $1.7 billion by offering the lump sum option. 
Using a sample of 65,000 departing members of the armed forces, they estimate that the average personal discount rate, taking taxes into account, exceeded 25 percent. Discount rates were higher for the less educated, the young, minorities and those with dependents; they were lower for officers.
Other studies have found that people have high discount rates outside the military as well. What makes the Warner-Pleeter study unique is that they looked at a situation in which large sums were offered to people who made actual, not hypothetical, choices. Moreover, subjects were provided advice that should have discouraged them from taking the lump sum. 
Why are personal discount rates so high? An idea gaining currency among economists known as hyperbolic discounting is that individuals use a larger discount rate for shorter time periods. That is, a sum that will be received in 19 years is valued the same as a sum that will be received in 20 years, while money that will be received next year is highly discounted compared with money received today. 
The Warner-Pleeter study, however, found little evidence for such telescopic behavior. At a given break-even discount rate, the length of time over which benefits are paid is unrelated to the likelihood of choosing the lump sum. 
For whatever reason, people act as if they have very high discount rates. Recognition of this fact helps to explain a number of other phenomena.
For example, it is not surprising that the public supports policies that could produce a budget deficit, like a tax cut. High discount rates also help explain the tepid support for public investments, like child care or inner-city education; people are too impatient to wait for the returns when given the opportunity for an immediate tax cut. 
The public's penchant for holding high credit card debt -- more than $6,000 per household with a credit card -- at interest rates near 15 percent a year is also consistent with high discount rates, as are low savings rates. (Indeed, one wonders why the government, which borrows at 5 percent, doesn't offer a credit card to every man, woman and child at an interest rate of, say, 10 percent. This would help reduce the debt and quench individuals' thirst for fast cash.) 
If individuals use excessively high discount rates for personal decisions, how should society discount the future costs and benefits of government programs? A paper by Martin Weitzman in the same issue of The American Economic Review provides a novel answer: he asked 2,160 economists which discount rate the government should use to evaluate long-term environmental projects, after accounting for inflation. The median response was 3 percent; 90 percent reported a rate from 2 to 9 percent -- substantially below the personal discount rate implied by the public's decisions. Professor Weitzman suspects the experts report a lower rate because they take into account subtle relevant factors, like the government's ability to borrow at low rates and expected changes in technology. In their personal behavior, the experts may be as impatient as everyone else. 
A lower discount rate makes projects with big initial costs but long-term benefits, like environmental cleanups, more desirable. Professor Weitzman further shows that disparity in discount rates among experts -- not to mention the public at large -- should lead the government to use a lower discount rate for longer-time horizons because of the wonders of compound discounting at different interest rates. Such a policy would lead to greater public investment in the environment and education, for example.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (50%) KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



654 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 GASOLINE SURGES. Gasoline soared on a drop in inventories of the cleaner-burning grade used in the largest cities. In New York, gasoline for June delivery rose 5.11 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $1.1589 a gallon.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks gasoline prices (near-month contract), since December 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (85%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



655 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 34 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO SLIDE CONTINUES. The euro fell after the German and French economies grew less than expected and inflation accelerated. In New York, the euro settled at 85.70 cents, down from 86.53 cents on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since December 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (85%) CURRENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



656 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall as Investors Book Some Profits

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell yesterday as investors pulled back in the absence of economic news and took some profits from the market's recent rally.
 "You're looking at stocks that are up 10, 15, 20 percent in the last several days," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. "What that might cause is some people to book some profits. People are just kind of reacting to how far up they've come." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 151.73 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 11,105.51. The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index dropped 70.37 points, or 3 percent, to 2,243.48. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 20.33 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,289.05.
All three indexes have rallied since late March and early April. The Nasdaq, which rose in the previous six sessions, is up nearly 37 percent from its closing low on April 4.
Analysts said investors were looking for reasons to take profits after recent gains. They noted that several factors were being cited for yesterday's pullback, including continuing concerns about disappointing second-quarter financial results and the anticipation that Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont would leave the Republican Party, a move that could shift control of the Senate to the Democrats.
But those factors "don't seem to be that major to me," said Richard McCabe, chief market strategist for Merrill Lynch. "When the market is a bit overbought, the least little excuse can be seized upon." 
Shares of DuPont, one of the 30 Dow industrials, fell $1.92, to $47.39, after its chief operating officer, Richard R. Goodmanson, told investors and analysts at the Goldman Sachs Chemical Investors Forum in Boca Raton, Fla., that the company expected a second quarter that was "at least as challenging as in the first quarter." 
Mr. Goodmanson attributed the sluggishness to the global technology slowdown, as well as a softer demand for DuPont products in Europe and declining demand for carpets and paint in North America.
Also weighing on the Dow were declines in Boeing, down $2, to $66; General Motors, lower by $1.71, to $55.18; American Express, down $1.35, to $44.70; and Merck, which fell $1.10, to $74. 
Semiconductor stocks helped pulled down the Nasdaq yesterday after the equipment makers reported weak orders and disappointing earnings forecasts. Applied Materials lost $3.65, to $52.94; Triquint Semiconductor fell $3.13, to $24.81; and the Semtech Corporation, dropped $5.58, to $30.63. 
Among other technology stocks, Cisco Systems fell $1.05, to $22.43; Oracle lost 74 cents, to $16.84; and Nextel Communications dropped $1.70, to $17.37. 
Shares of Dell Computer rose $1.04, to $26.98, after analysts from Goldman, Sachs and Merrill Lynch recommended the personal computer maker's stock. 
Intuit, a software maker, gained $2.20, to $33.35, after reporting better-than-expected third-quarter results. 
Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, noted that trading volume yesterday slowed from Tuesday as investors approached the Memorial Day weekend. "We may have some profit taking, but it's playing to a pretty empty house," Mr. Hogan said. "It's a very, very quiet week for economic data. If you think today's quiet, wait till you see Friday." --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
 (By Bloomberg News)
Treasury bond prices were mixed yesterday.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 1/32, to a price of 97 3/32. The yield was unchanged at 5.39 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 5/32, to 94 8/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.78 percent from 5.77 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks the percentage of participation certificates from January through May.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); FLOORING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); SEMTECH CORP (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); BOEING CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); TRIQUINT SEMICONDUCTOR INC (51%)

TICKER: SMTC (NASDAQ) (61%); GS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%); TQNT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (61%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3675 ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (61%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



657 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Gifts to Charity in U.S. Topped $203 Billion in 2000, Study Says 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Charitable contributions in the United States came to more than $203 billion last year, up 3.2 percent from the previous year, adjusted for inflation, according to the philanthropy group that puts together Giving USA, the most comprehensive annual report.
 The numbers, put out by the American Association of Fundraising Counsel Trust for Philanthropy, can be seen in a positive or negative light. 
 On one hand, they represent a new benchmark, a doubling of charitable giving since 1990, when the $100 billion threshold was first topped. 
But at the same time, last year's increase was the smallest in five years. And the money given to charity represented only 2 percent of the gross domestic product, down from 2.1 percent in 1999. That number has been relatively flat for decades. 
Donations by individuals accounted for three-quarters of charitable contributions, or $152.1 billion last year, a 1.5 percent increase from the previous year, in inflation-adjusted dollars.
"Individual giving didn't have the robust growth one would have hoped for," said Donald Eberly of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. "If people at the century's end gave the way their parents did in the 1950's, we would have an extra $20 billion annually in good works. Looked at from the standpoint of long-term trends, we could and should have had higher contributions in the individual category, a type of giving that often reaches small-scale neighborhood groups and spurs civic engagement." 
A recent report by NewTithing Group, a San Francisco philanthropic research organization, estimated that Americans could have comfortably given twice as much to charity as they did. Those with adjusted gross incomes of $1 million or more could have afforded to give 10 times more than their actual donations, the report said, while those with incomes under $50,000 were already donating an average of $661 a year to charity, about as much as they could afford. 
According to Giving USA, foundations gave $24.5 billion, or 12 percent of the 2000 total, up 15.7 percent from the previous year. 
Bequests, which made up 7.8 percent of contributions, provided $16 billion last year, down 0.7 percent. 
Corporate giving, which made up 5.3 percent of giving, came to $10.9 billion last year, up 8.4 percent. Over all, corporations contributed 1.2 percent of their pre-tax profits, the same proportion as the previous year, but down from the highs of the mid-1980's. 
There have been few big shifts in how charitable money is used. 
Religious organizations, always the largest charitable sector, received 36.5 percent of all contributions. Religious giving reached $74.3 billion, up 0.9 percent from the previous year, adjusted for inflation. 
Education giving was the slowest growing category last year, down 0.7 percent from the previous year. Educational institutions -- including higher education, elementary schools, libraries and tutoring programs -- received $28.2 billion last year, or 13.8 percent of total giving. 
In some other sectors: health giving was up 1.4 percent, to $18.9 billion; human services giving increased 0.3 percent, to $18 billion; arts and culture giving increased 0.5 percent, to $11.5 billion; and international giving decreased by 0.8 percent, to $2.7 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITABLE GIVING (92%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RELIGION (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%) PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN OF FUND-RAISING COUNSEL TRUST FOR PHILANTHROPY 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



658 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Flacking for Governor Pataki 

 BODY:
Surely any governor's job description includes trying to lure tourists into one's state to spend money and boost the home economy. While most states attempt to entice people from elsewhere to come visit, however, Gov. George Pataki and his tourism team spend a large chunk of New York State's advertising budget pitching the state to fellow New Yorkers. Mr. Pataki's aides explain that most people in New York haven't seen the entire territory -- such as people from the Bronx who haven't visited the Adirondacks or those from Buffalo who have missed Times Square. Maybe so. But while Mr. Pataki is promoting New York, there is little doubt that he is also promoting Mr. Pataki. 
 At this stage, New York's Republican governor is not technically a candidate for anything, even his own re-election next year. But Democrats lining up for a challenge are seething about how the governor uses the trappings of his office -- the chartered jets, the promotional literature and especially the expensive face time the governor gets on television, courtesy of New York's taxpayers. Not only does Mr. Pataki love New York, especially during prime time, he also promotes children's health and other state programs. Even the official New York State Web site opens with a grinning Governor Pataki floating into the middle of the screen. 
 A few years ago, New York City lawmakers wisely barred any employee of the city running for office from appearing in the city's public service commercials during an election year. When mayoral candidates appear on television now, they are making news or buying their own time, not putting their faces on some pitch for the city, courtesy of local taxpayers. 
State officials have no such restrictions, and it is difficult even to find out how much taxpayer money is being spent on promotions starring the governor. New York's Democratically controlled Assembly agreed last week to prohibit any use of state funds for public service announcements that feature pictures, likenesses or voices of any statewide elected official or a member of that official's family. The assembly also asked for an annual inventory of every radio, television and Internet advertisement produced by the state.
The bill's chances, unfortunately, are considered negligible even though Governor Pataki supported a similar measure in 1990. Back then, Mr. Pataki was a young Assembly member critical of the man he would ultimately force from office, Mario Cuomo. It was also a time when Mr. Pataki enjoyed labeling Mr. Cuomo as the "imperial" governor for such abuses as reaping too much air time from the state's advertising and promotion machinery. Now that Mr. Pataki has his hands on that machinery, he is not letting go. As for the Democratic bill to end such abuses, the governor's aides dismissed the entire idea in a particularly odd way. They labeled it a publicity stunt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TOURISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MAYORS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ETHICS (60%); WEB SITES (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); EDITORIALS; ETHICS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CUOMO, MARIO M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



659 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Seek Way to Restore Prenatal Care For Immigrants 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 23 

 BODY:
The morning after a federal appeals court ruled that illegal immigrant women are not entitled to federally financed prenatal care, New York lawmakers and health care advocates today began reviewing ways to help restore coverage using only state money.
 The chairman of the Assembly Health Committee, Richard N. Gottfried, said that he had begun drafting legislation that would use only state money to provide such coverage for pregnant illegal immigrants. 
 At least eight other states, including California, which has the nation's largest immigrant population, use only state money to pay for prenatal care for illegal immigrants, according to a survey by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research organization based in Washington. Several others, including Texas, which also has many immigrants, provide prenatal care to illegal immigrants at state-financed clinics. 
The ruling, issued on Tuesday by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, presents a delicate political situation for Gov. George E. Pataki. Facing a potentially competitive race for his job next year, Mr. Pataki, a Republican, has appeared at several events involving causes that appeal to immigrants, and most recently has called on the federal government to extend a legalization deadline for illegal immigrants.
Mr. Pataki's spokesman, Michael McKeon, and Health Department officials would not comment today on whether the administration would back legislation to restore prenatal care for illegal immigrants using only state money. Doing so would cost roughly $15 million, according to Health Department officials; according to their estimates, about 13,000 illegal immigrant women in the state receive prenatal care.
A spokesman for Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican Senate majority leader, said this afternoon that he could not comment until he had spoken to his colleagues and heard what the governor had to say.
The latest court decision overturned a 1987 ruling by a lower court judge who ordered the federal government to provide prenatal care for illegal immigrants. The appeals court found that it was not unconstitutional to deny prenatal care to women who are in the country illegally. Their children, who would become United States citizens, would automatically be entitled to Medicaid benefits for a year after birth, the judges found.
The three-member appeals panel sent the case back to a lower court to decide how to carry out the ruling. Until that happens, illegal immigrants will continue to get prenatal care, just as they have since the 1987 court order.
Lawyers with the Legal Aid Society, representing the immigrant plaintiffs in the case, said today that they had not yet decided whether to appeal. To do so would invite a thorny legal question of whether a fetus has constitutional rights. The appeals court opinion explicitly opened that door, citing the landmark 1973 abortion rights ruling, Roe v. Wade, in rejecting the underpinnings of the lower court's injunction that had allowed federal money to be used for the prenatal care. 
The appellate ruling also turned attention to the often confusing patchwork of laws that govern health care coverage for immigrants in New York who have not become United States citizens. For the most part, even legal immigrants who came to this country after 1996, when the latest federal welfare laws were changed, are currently ineligible for Medicaid. The state is facing a lawsuit over the issue, with plaintiffs claiming that the state Constitution requires coverage for the poor, regardless of immigration status.
Moreover, lawmakers in the Assembly and the Senate have introduced legislation that would restore Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants. The governor has not supported similar legislative efforts in the past.
Illegal immigrants in New York have never been entitled to government health coverage, with three notable exceptions: uninsured children are eligible for Child Health Plus, a state-financed program, and anyone who shows up at a hospital emergency room is eligible for emergency Medicaid. Until the latest court ruling, poor illegal immigrant women were eligible for prenatal care.
Public health and immigrant groups expressed alarm today over the prospect of losing prenatal care for illegal residents. There are no reliable public health studies on the health of babies born to illegal immigrant mothers. But the city's own health studies suggest that several neighborhoods with a high share of foreign-born mothers have infant mortality rates that are higher than the city average. In Flatbush, Brooklyn, for instance, where 60 percent of mothers are from other countries, 8 of 1,000 babies die before their first birthdays, compared with the New York City average of 6.9 of 1,000.
Today, lawmakers and advocates began preparing for a legislative response to the court ruling.
Dr. Luis R. Marcos, president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, said he would urge the governor and the Legislature to enact a law to extend prenatal coverage to women who are in the country illegally. "This is yet another example of the city's public hospitals having to provide health care that nobody wants to pay for," Dr. Marcos said. 
The public hospitals run by his agency are the ones most likely to treat poor, pregnant illegal immigrants; the agency, he said, does not keep figures on the numbers of illegal residents they treat.
Assemblyman Gottfried, a Manhattan Democrat, said providing state money to extend coverage to illegal immigrants was the most humane and fiscally prudent option.
"You save a lot of money every time you save a low-birth-weight baby or a baby born with complications," he said. "The economic advantage of good prenatal care is stunning, quite apart from the human value. You're really shooting yourself in the foot fiscally by not providing prenatal care."
His leader in the Assembly, Speaker Sheldon Silver, said through a spokesman that he was not prepared to say whether he would back such a measure, and he said he was disappointed in the court ruling.
The Health Committee chairman in the State Senate, Kemp Hannon, a Nassau County Republican, stopped short of saying whether he would support similar legislation. But he did not rule it out either. After all, he said, illegal immigrants who are ineligible for Medicaid simply end up in hospital emergency rooms, a far costlier proposition.
"What we should be doing is negotiating as part of the budget to see if there are funds available to use resources of hospitals in a far more rational way," Mr. Hannon said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JUDGES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ABORTION (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGAL AID (73%); POLITICS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%)

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



660 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: A Boy's Slaying Resonates in a Bedroom City of Immigrant Workers 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS and ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
The Morris County, N.J., prosecutor urged Hispanic neighbors of a slain 10-year-old Guatemalan boy yesterday to come forward with any information that might aid the investigation, without worrying about deportation or other penalties if they are illegal immigrants. 
 "We've got a murder to solve," said John B. Dangler, the prosecutor, standing outside the home in Morristown of Walter Contreras Valenzuela, whose battered body was found Tuesday morning near railroad tracks less than a mile from the house he shared with his parents and 9-year-old sister. The authorities had been looking for Walter since early Monday, when he failed to return home from a local church carnival. 
 The prosecutor's appeal, on Spanish-language radio and television stations, was one of many indicators of how much the historic city of richly restored Victorians and humble two-family homes, has changed in recent years as Hispanic immigrants flock there in growing numbers. Latinos, including a recent influx of immigrants from Central America, now make up nearly 30 percent of the town's 18,500 residents, up from 5 percent in 1980 and 14 percent a decade ago. 
Morristown, the seat of Morris County, one of the wealthiest counties in the nation, has been partly reborn as a dormitory town for the men and women who trim suburban lawns, pave the driveways and clean the area's corporate office parks. In that regard, it resembles Mount Kisco in Westchester County and Farmingville in Suffolk, other suburbs among many in the region transformed by immigration in the last decade.
"Because it is located at the center of one of the state's more robust economies, Morristown offers immigrants access to opportunities and provides them with affordable places to live," said James W. Hughes, a professor of urban planning and policy at Rutgers. 
Walter's parents -- his mother is a housekeeper at the Westin Hotel in Morristown and his stepfather a waiter at the nearby Madison Hotel -- were comforted yesterday by the Rev. Brando Ibarra, a priest at St. Margaret's Roman Catholic Church.
"The family is poor," Father Ibarra, who is from Colombia, said outside the family's home on Abbett Street, wedged between a gas station and a Baptist church. "They don't have money for his funeral." 
But that burden was partly lifted, Father Ibarra said, by two neighborhood men who went door-to-door collecting money for the family. As of this afternoon, they had raised $640, the priest said, one dollar at a time. 
Eleodora Contreras, the boy's mother, had not realized her son was missing for several hours on Sunday because she collapsed into bed for a nap after a long day of changing sheets and cleaning bathrooms. "The only thing they were doing was working, working very hard," Father Ibarra said of the Valenzuelas and, by implication, others like them. "But sometimes they can't take care of their kids as well." 
When Walter's mother woke up around 8 p.m. and could not find Walter, she started a frantic, door-to-door search in the largely Hispanic neighborhood. "She was in tears when she came here," said Rosa Murillo, 39, whose 11-year-old-son, Jose, often played video games and soccer with Walter. 
At midnight, Ms. Contreras called the police, who began searching the brush-choked banks of the Whippany River, where Walter sometimes went to fish, and the nearby woods at Historic Speedwell Village, the place where Samuel Morse perfected the telegraph in 1838. 
With tears streaming down her face, Ms. Contreras, 37, told reporters this morning that her son's face had been so badly disfigured that the police had to use fingerprints to make a positive identification. Although investigators would not discuss how the boy had been killed, Mr. Dangler said he had not been sexually assaulted. "We've got some significant leads," is all he would say.
Those who knew Walter described him as energetic and independent minded, a tree-climbing adventurer who excelled at soccer and enjoyed collecting turtles and minnows from the Whippany River. 
"He was a happy kid, always having fun, always playing," said Eddie Gonzales, a neighbor. "He was just a normal boy." 
At Normandy Park Elementary School, eight crisis counselors were on hand yesterday to help Walter's classmates grapple with his death. "There were some pretty devastated kids," said Bill Cole, a school psychologist. " 'Why' was the biggest question -- and 'how.' " 
Although they were careful not to cast blame on his parents, many residents said they were distressed to learn that Walter had gone to the carnival alone on Sunday night. 
Lester Walker, 44, a neighbor, said Ms. Contreras had tried to set rules about where Walter could and could not go, but that she and her husband were not always around to enforce them. "I guess they were always out working and he had a lot of free time," Mr. Walker said. 
Ruth Klineman, a social worker for the Morris County Office of Hispanic Affairs, said that many immigrant parents in Morristown lacked the English-language skills to help them find better jobs. "They try to be good parents but it's tragic that their work often keeps them away from their children," she said. 
Mrs. Klineman, a native of Uruguay, said that many Hispanics are accustomed to life in small villages, where people look out for one another's children. "They come here and they live the same way because they do not know about the dangers," she said. "They shouldn't do that here. But at the same time, they have to feed their kids."
Speaking to reporters yesterday, Ms. Contreras expressed regret that she was not always able to watch her son and made a plea for parents to keep an eye on their children. With grief in her voice, she recounted a conversation she had had with Walter the day before he disappeared, with her son saying how he would one day ease her burden. "He said how much he loved me," she said, "and that one day he'll be able to make a good living and then I won't have to work so hard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Walter Valenzuela lived with his family in Morristown, N.J., which has attracted many immigrants who have found work in Morris County. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B5); Walter Valenzuela; Eleodora Contreras told other parents yesterday to supervise their children carefully. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B1) Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Hispanic Residency Increases"Morristown's Hispanic population has more than doubled in the last decade, while its white and black population have fallen. POPULATION1990 -- 16,6592000 -- 18,544% CHANGE -- +11.3% HISPANIC1990 -- 2,4132000 -- 5,034% CHANGE -- +108.6% ASIAN% CHANGE -- +79.2% BLACK1990 -- 3,9012000 -- 3,068% CHANGE -- -21.4% WHITE1990 -- 9,8902000 -- 9,402% CHANGE -- -4.9% OTHER% CHANGE -- +450.8% (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. B5) Map of New Jersey highlighting Morristown. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); DEPORTATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MURDER (78%); REFUGEES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); SUBURBS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); HOTEL STAFF (66%); STEPPARENTS (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; HANLEY, ROBERT; VALENZUELA, WALTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%) MORRISTOWN (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



661 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Asia: PC Sales 

BYLINE:  By Wayne Arnold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Sales of personal computers in Asia grew 2.9 percent, to $13.9 billion, in the first quarter, according to preliminary estimates by the market research firm IDC, the slowest growth since the Asian financial crisis in 1998. 
PC's are a bellwether for other technology sales, especially in Asia where the machines are less widespread than in the United States. Technology companies normally count on Asia to deliver rapid sales growth, but because the region's economies also depend on supplying the industry with parts, the slump in the United States and Japan has crimped Asia's normally keen appetite for technology. Wayne Arnold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: IDC (CO) 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



662 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing World Trade: Lower Growth Expected 

BYLINE:  By Elizabeth Olson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 World trade growth is likely to be only 7 percent this year, down from 12 percent last year, one of its top performances in recent decades, according to the World Trade Organization. 
The trade body's annual report had predicted that Western Europe would drive any increase in trade volume this year, but initial figures indicate that prediction may have been overly optimistic, its economics division chief said. The decline in imports to the United States would be hardest on its North American Free Trade Agreement partners, Canada and Mexico, the report said. Global trade in goods totaled $6.2 trillion last year. Elizabeth Olson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); ANNUAL REPORTS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (83%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (82%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%) MEXICO; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



663 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Rate Cut Vote 

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Concerned about slowing growth in Britain as a result of the United States downturn, the Bank of England said its experts had voted 8 to 1 to lower interest rates by a quarter-point this month, with the sole dissenter arguing for a bigger cut. 
The vote, published in the monthly minutes of the bank's monetary policy committee, was taken as a sign that the benchmark rate, now 5.25 percent, might well fall a further quarter-point in midsummer. The minutes said it was unlikely that the slowdown in the United States would be offset by growth in other regions and that the United States economy might slow further. Alan Cowell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (84%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF ENGLAND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



664 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Orlando Glitter Hides Dark Side of Young Drug Users 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Arnitra Johnson can imagine the rush of riding one of the roller coasters at Disney World. She has never been to any of the theme parks here, but she thinks the thrill must be the same as the high she used to get from marijuana and Ecstasy.
 "Ecstasy, that's the talk of the town," said Ms. Johnson, an 18-year-old who lived until recently in the local Covenant House, a shelter for homeless youths. "It makes you feel good, see different colors." 
 That is the Orlando Ms. Johnson knows, one in which the bright colors come not from the lights and the fireworks at the tourist attractions but from life in a drug haze, on the streets. It is the Orlando that millions of tourists drive obliviously through every year on their way tofun and fantasy. 
Ms. Johnson represents the most extreme example of how the image and the reality of this playground city can be worlds apart. While Orlando is no doubt a great place for young people to visit, it is not a great place for many of them who come here on their own to live, say experts on the city's social problems. 
Rich from tourism dollars, Orlando is virtually synonymous with family fun. In many ways it is an ideal city, with well-maintained municipal services and facilities, decent schools and an economy that is diversifying into high-technology industries. But the city also has a high rate of teenage heroin use, and government officials and drug counselors say the area has also been struggling with the rising popularity of club drugs like Ecstasy, taken in pill form, and GHB, a liquid sedative.
Orange County, which encompasses Orlando, has among the highest rate of teenage pregnancy and uninsured youngsters in Florida. Nearly 40 of every 1,000 girls 15 through 17 in the county become pregnant compared with 35 statewide and 32 nationwide, according to Florida Kids Count, a project of the University of South Florida in Tampa. And 28 percent of the children under 18 have no health insurance, compared with a state average of 22.3 percent and a national average of 15.6 percent, the Orange County Department of Health says.
The percentage of children living in poverty in the county, 22.3 percent, is in line with the state average of 22 percent and the national average of 21 percent. But experts on social issues say the perception is that everyone here has money to spend on cotton candy and stuffed animals.
"You go to Disney World and everything is orderly and clean and perfect," said Dr. Irwin Redlener, president of the Children's Health Fund in New York, which provides health care to poor children nationwide and operates mobile medical clinics that offer free treatment in inner-city neighborhoods and at centers like Covenant House. "But if you go to the center of Orlando it is the absolute opposite." Referring to Orlando's neediest youngsters, Dr. Redlener said, "Mickey Mouse is not going to help them."
Ms. Johnson, who recently received her first physical examination in years at the mobile clinic and now lives on her own, knows that to be true. "I've heard about Disney and Epcot and stuff like that," Ms. Johnson said. "But I've never been to those places."
Orlando's most vexing problem, by far, is its high rate of drug use, particularly among young people. Since the mid-1990's, Orlando has ranked as high as third among the nation's cities in heroin-related deaths of teenagers per capita, the Florida Office of Drug Control says. 
State officials say drug traffickers are increasingly using Orlando, like Miami, as an entry port to smuggle narcotics from Puerto Rico, Colombia and the Dominican Republic. As the supply has increased, so has the distribution at rave clubs and house parties that cater to a young crowd. 
"We have lost a lot of young people who have had exposure to the increasing amount of heroin in Central Florida," said Representative John L. Mica, a Republican who represents Orlando. 
"We're trying to get a handle on it," said Mr. Mica, who has held several House subcommittee hearings in the city to investigate the problem. Three years ago, Congress said Orlando was the headquarters of a "high-intensity drug-trafficking area" and allocated money for local authorities to combat the problem.
But on the street, little seems to have changed in the availability of narcotics, said several teenage addicts interviewed recently at Another Chance, a counseling center in a suburb here.
To be sure, most youngsters here are not addicted to drugs and are living with their own families. And other cities of similar size struggle with the same problems as Orlando. But the problems here seem somehow magnified by the stark contrast with the city's pristine image.
"Orlando has a bright, shiny veneer," Representative Mica said. "Unfortunately, we've also been a victim of tragedy."
Orlando can also attract young people because of the promise, often broken, of abundant service jobs and round-the-clock entertainment, said Paula Tibbetts, a spokeswoman for Covenant House.
"What happens with so many of them is they never set foot in the amusement parks and they end up in marginal living situations and in some circumstances those totally fall apart and they end up on the streets," Ms. Tibbetts said.
Stephanie Fincher, a 20-year-old recent resident of Covenant House who is estranged from her adoptive parents in Atlanta, came to Orlando for work and fun but became pregnant and ran out of money.
In donated jeans and an orange shirt, Ms. Fincher could pass for a middle-class tourist. Her hair and makeup are flawless, thanks to store-sample cosmetics, and the slick stroller in which she pushes her son, Anthony, was donated.
"When I walk outside I don't look homeless," said Ms. Fincher, whose son was named for another homeless shelter where she lived, Anthony's House, in Zellwood, Fla. 
She figures the misconceptions strangers have about her are just like the ones she had about Orlando.
"I thought, 'Oh, this is going to be fun to live here,' " she said, "but it didn't really turn out that way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The closest some young people in Orlando, Fla., like Arnitra Johnson, 18, have ever been to the fantasy world of theme parks is on a drug trip. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); ECSTASY (90%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); COUNTIES (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); TOURISM (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEROIN (74%); PARTY DRUGS (74%); POOR POPULATION (72%); CANNABIS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); POVERTY RATES (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (62%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEROIN; ECSTASY (DRUG) 

ORGANIZATION: COVENANT HOUSE (57%)

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (96%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) ORLANDO (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



665 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Panel Considers Warning Label for a Heart Medicine 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
An advisory panel at the Food and Drug Administration will hear arguments today on whether to add a warning to the label of Cardura, a popular blood pressure medication, telling doctors and patients that it may be less effective than a much cheaper generic drug.
 Pfizer, the maker of Cardura, has done little to tell doctors and patients about the results of a government study of the drug's effectiveness, according to a lawsuit that was filed last year on behalf of patients. 
 For years, it has not been clear whether newer medicines like Cardura are actually better than older generic treatments for high blood pressure. 
In Cardura's case, a large study by the National Institutes of Health found last year that patients with high blood pressure who took Cardura were two times as likely to be hospitalized for congestive heart failure than if they took an older generic diuretic. The study did not find that patients taking Cardura were any more likely to die than patients taking the diuretic. 
Startled by the finding, researchers immediately halted the part of the study involving Cardura and offered an alternative medicine to the 9,000 patients taking the drug in the trial.
But government regulators have never asked Pfizer to change how it markets the drug. And according to Pfizer documents included in the suit, the company has continued to sell the medicine aggressively, schooling its sales representatives in what to say to doctors who had doubts about the drug.
Pfizer spent $66 million to market Cardura last year, and the drug's sales reached $365 million in America, according to IMS Health. 
After Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, the firm representing the patients, filed the lawsuit, asking that Pfizer be forced to notify patients of the study's findings, a federal district judge in Manhattan told the lawyers that they would have to take the matter up with the food and drug agency.
Pfizer said yesterday that it had acted appropriately in continuing to market the drug. It also said that it believed that Cardura was safe.
Mariann Caprino, a Pfizer spokeswoman, said that the company had reviewed the 316 clinical trials it had sponsored to study Cardura and had been unable to find any link between Cardura and congestive heart failure. The company also reviewed studies by other researchers and said it found no link.
Pfizer believes, Ms. Caprino said, that the government's findings may have been caused by the way the trial was designed. 
"We don't believe a change in the label is warranted," she said.
When scientific data have shown that a drug may be unsafe, the food and drug agency has issued such warnings in the past.
Pfizer said that the government had never given it the data from its study, making it hard to notify patients and doctors.
"Pfizer alerted regulatory authorities around the world" after the government stopped the trial last year, Ms. Caprino said. "Not one of these agencies has asked Pfizer to take any action of any kind."
But some doctors say they are worried that some patients still taking Cardura could be harmed.
"Pfizer's delay in providing such notification may every year cause thousands of unnecessary cases of heart failure among the large number of hypertensive patients who currently use Cardura," said Dr. Curt D. Furberg, chairman of the steering committee of the government study, in an affidavit that is part of the suit.
Lawrence R. Krakoff, professor of medicine at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, said in another affidavit, "Pfizer's delay or refusal to provide such notification to date may have already caused hospitalizations."
Dr. Krakoff is expected to speak at today's hearing in Bethesda, Md.
The government study, the Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial, is also exploring whether two other relatively new drugs are more effective than generics. The study will conclude in 2002.
According to internal company documents made public as part of the suit, as the government was preparing to halt the part of the trial looking at Cardura, Pfizer began to take steps to remedy what it saw as a "potential threat" to its business.
Company executives discussed seeking the support of the American College of Cardiology, the nation's largest group of cardiologists, according to the documents. Pfizer also wrote responses to be used when a doctor that the company considered to be a high prescriber of Cardura raised questions about the trial. 
"It is extremely important that everyone selling Cardura gives a consistent, unambiguous and powerful response to a physician's questions," said an internal Pfizer e-mail message included in court filings.
Ms. Caprino agreed that the company had continued to market the drug. "The regulatory agencies did not put any restrictions on our ability to market the drug," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); PRODUCT LABELING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HYPERTENSION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); CLINICAL TRIALS (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (75%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); JUDGES (71%); SALES FORCE (65%) HEART; LABELING AND LABELS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); CARDURA (DRUG); BLOOD PRESSURE; GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); MILBERG LLP (82%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (83%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; PFIZER INC; NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH 

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



666 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Standing Out in a Tough Crowd; 
A Ford Model Wins Rare German Praise

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany 

 BODY:
This country's big car magazines, which rate automobiles as meticulously as French wine critics compare the latest Bordeaux, have never had much use for cars from Ford of Europe. Boring and bland were some of the kinder things they usually said about Ford's offerings.
 So it was nothing short of amazing when critics ranked Ford's renovated Mondeo, a midsize sedan that sells for about $20,000, as the best car in its class, ahead of the home-market favorite, the Volkswagen Passat. 
 Ford has finally done something right, declared Auto Bild, the country's biggest weekly car magazine. Auto Motor und Sport, perhaps the most influential car magazine for German buyers, went even further: "The days when the Passat easily won all the comparison tests," it said, "are over for now." Some magazines said the new Ford was better value than more expensive cars from Volvo, Audi and BMW. 
After years of being trounced in Europe by Volkswagen and other rivals, Ford is finally winning respect. Thanks in large part to the new version of the Mondeo, Ford's market share in Europe has inched up noticeably in the last few months. And after losing $1.13 billion last year, Ford of Europe earned a tiny profit of $88 million in the first quarter of this year.
"Ford of Europe has been the sick part of Ford for the last decade," said David W. Thursfield, who took over in January as chief executive of Ford of Europe, which is based here. "It is time we contributed to the company's well-being."
But the tone of surprise among German auto reviewers hints at the long-term challenge for the company. Ford, which has been building cars in Europe for more than 70 years, has acquired an image of being uninspired, unreliable, simply behind the curve. Company executives and outside experts agree that even if Ford remains attuned to European tastes and continues to improve, it will still take years to repair the damage.
"Fords are for people who aren't really interested in cars," said Thomas Fischer, chief reporter for Auto Motor und Sport. That is a damning critique in a country whose very identity is wrapped up with precision-engineered cars from Mercedes, BMW, Audi, Porsche and Volkswagen. "Volkswagen has a very strong brand and outstanding image, while Ford really has no image at all," Mr. Fischer added. "As a result, Volkswagen can charge much more for its cars at every level."
Mr. Thursfield, 55, a low-key but tough-minded Briton, has been leading Ford's turnaround strategy since he arrived here one year ago as president. Before that, he was in change of manufacturing at Ford headquarters in Dearborn, Mich. To cut costs and reduce overcapacity, Ford announced plans to shut down a major assembly plant in Dagenham, England. It also sold a factory in Portugal, closed a smaller one in Poland and spun off part of its transmission business to a joint venture with a German manufacturer.
Ford, meanwhile, has invested heavily in modernization. It is pouring about $400 million into a new assembly plant and body shop here in Cologne, which executives say will be flexible enough to easily switch production between entirely different models. It is also investing about $500 million in a new center at the old Dagenham plant for developing and producing diesel engines, and it is trying to patch up its own weakness in diesel technology by forming a joint venture to develop new engines with PSA Peugeot Citroen of France.
Diesel engines have soared in popularity in Europe during the last few years, but both Ford and General Motors were slow to recognize the trend and fell far behind their rivals.
The cost-cutting has already contributed to a big improvement in Ford of Europe's efficiency. "We will have as much capacity in three plants as we used to have in four," Mr. Thursfield said. "If we get to where we are going, it'll be the biggest turnaround in Ford of Europe's history."
At the moment, Ford operations here in Cologne look like one big construction site. A new assembly plant for the Fiesta, Ford's subcompact, is scheduled to replace the old one at the end of this summer. Next door, work is under way on a sprawling new supplier park that will house 13 big component suppliers to feed their parts directly into the assembly line. If all goes as planned, the suppliers will be manufacturing and delivering parts soon after the summer vacation period.
But cost-cutting alone will not provide a quick fix to Ford's image, which has been damaged by years of inattention to changes in European taste and advances among European rivals. In hindsight, Ford executives now acknowledge that part of their problems emanated from Ford headquarters in Michigan.
Under the yoke of executives in the United States, Ford of Europe was painfully late to recognize at least two major changes in Europe. One was the booming popularity of diesel engines, which burn far less fuel than gasoline engines and are now in one-third of all new cars sold here. A second was the rise of smaller minivans, pioneered by Renault in France and quickly copied by other rivals.
Mr. Thursfield says he believes he has almost solved the diesel problem. When the joint venture with Peugeot starts delivering engines later this year, he said, Ford should be able to supply as many engines as customers want to buy. And Ford's newest engines, which use what is known as common-rail technology, are almost as quiet as ordinary gasoline engines and quieter than those now sold by Volkswagen.
But that is simply making up for lost ground. Most other European competitors are rolling out common-rail diesel engines as well, and they have a head start on Ford to boot.
Ford, meanwhile, has yet to produce a small minivan, which is also one of the hottest segments in Europe. Even Volkswagen, which was behind in that area, is coming out with one.
"The problem with Ford is that it doesn't really have an image," said Willi Diez, a professor of economics at the Institute of Automobile Economics in Geislingen, Germany. "It has no attractive niche models that get people excited or stir the emotions. It has nothing to offer in the premium-car segment. It doesn't have a convertible. It doesn't have a coupe. The Mondeo is a fine car, a good car, but it isn't the kind of car that makes your head turn when you see it on the street."
The challenges confronting Ford were highlighted during some recent banter between two disc jockeys on one of Munich's main radio stations. The two were busy belittling the look of German police cars, which are small sedans painted with green stripes.
"But we're lucky here in Munich," one of the disc jockeys said. "Do you know what the police drive in Cologne? Fords! Ford Escorts!"
Both D.J.'s broke into howls of laughter, as the second one nailed the point home. "The gangsters would be long gone by the time they even got to the scene of the crime."
Earl Hesterberg, vice president for marketing at Ford of Europe, acknowledged that many Ford cars lacked a certain cachet and failed to pass the "pub test" -- in which someone walking into a pub will slap the keys down on the bar to show off a new purchase.
In one of Ford's own marketing surveys, car buyers were asked to name the leaders on everything from driving performance to quality and innovation. Volkswagen was listed as leader in the overwhelming majority of categories in Germany, Italy and Spain. Renault was the clear leader in France. Only in Britain, where Ford has always had a very big presence, did Ford rate highly in most categories.
"A lot of people still have a perception of Ford that is old," Mr. Hesterberg said. "They think that Volkswagen has superior engineering, better reliability, or better quality. We've been seen as not as dependable, or we've been seen as American and hence not understanding European needs."
Mr. Thursfield and his team say they believe they will need at least three or four years to fix the image problem, and it may well take longer. Because of Ford's weak appeal in Europe, Ford executives estimate they have to offer their cars at prices that are 6 percent to 7 percent lower than those charged for comparable cars by Volkswagen. Some outside experts say the gap is closer to 10 percent.
But Ford executives make it clear they are listening. They have announced plans for 45 new variants on existing models by the end of 2005. They are also adding in amenities like heated front windshields (very popular in northern Europe), heated seats and fancier headlights. When they renovated the Mondeo, they also made it significantly longer to give it more leg room and interior space.
Ford executives predict they will sell at least 280,000 Mondeos this year, up from 180,000 last year.
Still, Mr. Thursfield warned that Ford's recovery could be hurt by several problems outside its control. One is the weakness of the euro, which deflates European profits when converted into dollars. Another is continued weakness in the European car market, particularly in Germany. German sales have fallen sharply over the last year, and most of the decline has been in the midprice and low-price cars that Ford produces.
The upshot is that Ford executives merely hope to break even for the year as a whole. That result would include the Premium Automobile Group, which covers luxury brands like Jaguar, Volvo, Aston Martin and Land Rover. Marketing and new products help, but credibility comes only after enough people have actually owned the new Fords and been happy with them.
"The most powerful marketing is through word of mouth," Mr. Thursfield said. "This will take three to five years, and we have to have consistently better cars."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers on an assembly line for Fiesta cars at a Ford of Europe manufacturing plant in Cologne, Germany.; David W. Thursfield, Ford of Europe's chief executive, next to a 1931 quote by Henry Ford, which translates "Nevertheless, onward!"; An engineer supervises a wind tunnel test for a Ford Mondeo, which has received praise from Germany's automobile critics. (Photographs by Marcus Gloger/Joker for The New York Times) Chart: "Image Under Repair"In Europe, Ford has been losing out to its rivals -- squeezing profits and leading to a big loss last year. But its prospects have improved lately, thanks to a new version of the midsize Mondeo. Graph shows MARKET SHARE* for 12% of passenger cars from 1996 through first quarter of 2001. Graphs show REVENUES+ ($30 billion) and PROFIT OR LOSS+ (+$0.5 billion) from 1996 to 2000. *Ford brand only+Includes Jaguar, Volvo, Aston Martin and Land Rover.(Sources: Marketing Systems; Ford) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); MACHINE TOOLS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); MARKET SHARE (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD OF EUROPE; VOLKSWAGEN AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; THURSFIELD, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



667 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
'Stab In the Back'

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The medieval German hero Siegfried, pursued by his enemies, stooped down to drink at a spring and was killed by a spear thrust in his back. This Dolchstosse in den Rucken gave rise to the Dolchstosslegende that Prussian officers used to explain their 1918 defeat.
 Republican Party loyalists are now calling today's likely decision by Senator James Jeffords of Vermont to defect to the Democrats a "stab in the back." He will pay no political penalty; most Vermont voters are loyal only to party independence. 
 G.O.P. senators who welcomed former Democrats Richard Shelby of Alabama and Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Colorado into their ranks realize that party-jumping is part of the game. (Shelby's office is cheerfully bedecked with cartoons expressing fury at his switch.) But this is different: the crossover by Jeffords at this critical moment upsets the balance of power in the Senate.
The ultra-partisan Tom Daschle will soon be elected majority leader. On organizational matters, Democrats will need 60 votes to re-form the Senate, which gives minority Republicans some leverage. But the power shift curiously cuts against Democratic solidarity on major votes; it's much harder to hold senators together when they are in the majority than in the minority.
Control of the Senate machinery is the power to frustrate the policies of a president of the opposite party. The edge Democrats will soon hold in the Senate will be reflected inside key committees, which will be backed up by staffs who see the world differently from the current chairmen. 
John McCain will be replaced at Commerce by Fritz Hollings; that will harm campaign finance reform and free trade, though it may help privacy and economic nationalism. At Banking, laissez-faire Phil Gramm's replacement by Paul Sarbanes will lead to closer government supervision of bank operations and mergers. 
The word is that Daschle will pay off Jeffords with chairmanship of Environment and Public Works, replacing Robert Smith. That will help Jeffords undermine White House efforts to develop new oil and gas supplies, as will the change in Energy from Alaska's pro-supply Frank Murkowski to New Mexico's liberal Jeff Bingaman. Jeffords now has a shield to protect the subsidies to Vermont dairy farmers that keep milk prices high to consumers. 
On Foreign Affairs, the difference may be more in style than substance; of late, Jesse Helms and Joe Biden have not been far apart. On Governmental Affairs, however, we can expect Joe Lieberman, running for president, to go after the Bush administration with more gusto than Fred Thompson. 
The biggest change will be in Judiciary. With Daschle whispering in Pat Leahy's ear, ideology rather than character and intellect will be the criterion for judicial confirmation. The minority's current harassment of Ted Olson, whose appointment is not even for life, augurs an era of advice and dissent.
What about Republican leadership? Trent Lott may be more effective holding the troops together now, taking a leaf from Daschle's minority playbook. If not, the senator to watch is Tennessee's Bill Frist.
Is this power shift good for the country? I think not. It's good for pundits of every stripe; the duty of an empowered opposition is to leak. But the way the power balance has come about gives a kick in the pole to the two-big-tents party system.
I'm for a strong minority within each of the major parties, battling internally in primaries, pulling both liberal and conservative extremes toward the stable center. When liberal Republicans or conservative Democrats are seen by lockstep partisans as fifth columns to be ostracized and purged, party debate withers and the system suffers. 
The Jeffords switch feeds the appetite of the purity crowd. (Ya see? Can't trust them G.O.P. libs; they'll stab you in the back when you need 'em most.) It's hard to believe this Vermonter made a decision of great national import driven by personal pique at some White House slight. Whatever his motive, by bolting Jeffords has made life much harder for independent voices within each party. 
Now he's just another Daschle Democrat, comfortable with his ideological kin. But the dwindling band of libertarian or moderate Republicans is shamed into a smaller corner. Neatness rules. Internal dissent is further suspect as disloyalty. Bad day for contrarians in both parties. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); FOOD PRICES (64%); DAIRY FARMING (64%); MILK (60%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (76%); RICHARD SHELBY (76%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); JEFF BINGAMAN (57%); FRED THOMPSON (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%); JOE BIDEN (56%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



668 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcies By Individuals Rise SharplySo Far in 2001 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
A weakening economy and the anticipated passage of a bankruptcy reform bill in Washington caused a spike in the number of individuals filing for bankruptcy in the first quarter, according to an analysis of federal statistics released yesterday.
 The number of personal and business bankruptcies in the quarter ended March 31 was the highest in any quarter since June 1998, according to statistics from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. Most of that increase resulted from individual bankruptcy filings. 
 "A lot of the pressure has come from the loss of jobs," said Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and an expert on bankruptcies. "With families already deeply in debt, it doesn't take much for them to tumble into bankruptcy."
There were 366,841 bankruptcy filings in the first quarter, according to the administrative office. The figure represented an 18 percent increase from the period a year earlier. Much of that increase came from individuals filing for Chapter 13. Such filings were up 21 percent.
Another reason for the spike was the bankruptcy legislation passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate in March. The legislation, which has yet to be sent by Congress to President Bush, would make it more difficult for individuals to file under Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which allows consumers and businesses to shed most of their unsecured debts. Instead, more individuals will be forced to file Chapter 13, which requires debtors to work out a plan to pay off at least a portion of their debts, usually over three to five years.
More recently, personal bankruptcy filings have slowed some, according to weekly data collected on behalf of the credit card industry by E. Christopher Lundquist, president of Lundquist Consulting. In March and April, there were as many as 37,000 filings a week, he said. In the last five weeks, that number has fallen to about 30,000 a week. But based on data through last week, filings are up 26 percent from the period last year, Mr. Lundquist said.
The number of filings has dipped slightly as some of the urgency behind the passage of the bankruptcy legislation has faded, Mr. Lundquist said. The House and Senate have yet to begin reconciling the differences between their bills, according to staff members on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Until those differences are reconciled, the bill cannot be sent to President Bush to sign, the staff members said. Today's expected decision by Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont to leave the Republican Party, giving the Democrats a majority in the Senate, might further delay passage of the legislation, staff members said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (93%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (57%) ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF US COURTS 

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



669 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: BALANCE OF POWER: NEW ENGLAND; 
Jeffords's Move Would Echo Trend Toward Independents in His Region

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23 

 BODY:
If Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont abandons the Republican Party and becomes an independent, as expected, it will mark the convergence of two political trends in New England: the region's alienation from a national Republican Party dominated by Sun Belt conservatives and its growing comfort with independent, or third party, politics.
 Connecticut, a decade ago, elected an independent governor in in Lowell P. Weicker Jr., another liberal Republican who broke with his party. Maine has had two independent governors in recent years, including its current one, Angus S. King, a former Democrat. Vermont's only congressman, Bernard Sanders, is a socialist who runs as an independent. 
 "In the state of Vermont, for at least the last 20 years, there has been a strong and successful political movement outside the Democratic and Republican Parties," Mr. Sanders said. "Many people appreciate the fact that political life can exist outside the two-party system."
In last year's election, 42 percent of New England voters identified themselves as independents or something other than Democrats or Republicans, according to exit polls conducted by Voter News Service. By contrast, 34 percent said they were Democrats and 24 percent said they were Republicans.
Nationally, only 22 percent of the voters considered themselves independents, those exit polls showed.
The flinty, independent Yankee is something of a stereotype, but Governor King of Maine said he believed there was something to it. "It goes back to the roots of New England, people who were farmers, loggers, fishermen. These are essentially independent professions," he said. "There's something in the culture that values that."
But Mr. King, first elected in 1994 and resoundingly re-elected in 1998, said the move toward independent politics also reflected a market niche that was essentially unfilled. He left the Democratic Party, he said, because he no longer felt comfortable with its economics, yet considered himself too much a social moderate to join the Republicans.
"If truth be known," the governor said, "a person who's a fiscal conservative and a social moderate, which describes about 60 percent of the American people, there just isn't a party that speaks to that." 
That is exactly the niche that many New England Republicans try to fill, many analysts say. But, as in Mr. Jeffords's case, it puts them out of step with their national party. 
Darrell West, a professor of political science at Brown University, said, "The thing that's unusual about New England is we don't have a strong religious right. And the cultural conservatives who have risen in power elsewhere simply aren't very numerous in this region." 
"Republicans in New England do tend to be conservative on fiscal matters," Mr. West said, "but not on the social or cultural agenda." 
In the face of these trends, Republicans have managed to hang on, until this week, to half the region's Senate seats, mostly with against-the-grain moderates like Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Senator Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island. But the party that once utterly dominated the Congressional delegation -- in 1924 it held 28 of 32 seats -- now holds just 5 of 23. In some ways, it has become a mirror image of the realigning South of the past 30 years, which shifted to, and helped create, the modern Republican Party.
Leading Republican moderates from New England said they were dismayed at the prospect of losing a voice like Mr. Jeffords's. John R. McKernan, the former Republican governor of Maine and the husband of Senator Snowe, said: "We need people like Olympia and Jim in our party in order for us to remain a majority party. And I think the leadership of the party has to understand that. They're not going to be a national party with a narrow base."
Mr. McKernan also argued: "It's important for the system that you have the John Breauxs in the Democratic Party and the Olympia Snowes and Jim Jeffordses in the Republican Party. So there's somebody inside the room saying, 'Hey, wait a minute, let's make sure we don't get carried away here, in both parties.' "
Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, echoed those sentiments: "This is not good for the Republican Party, and I think it's not good for Jim Jeffords. I think this party needs him."
And Mr. Weicker a Republican senator from Connecticut lost his seat in 1988 and and then won election for governor on a third-party ticket, said tonight: "Let's dispel the idea -- whether it's Jeffords or Weicker or anyone else -- that we left the party. The party's changed radically. They left us."
Mr. Weicker said that he visited with former Senator Barry Goldwater shortly before his death and that "he was bemoaning the fact that even someone like him would be considered too liberal for the Republican Party."
Still, New England itself has grown decidedly Democratic. In last year's razor-close presidential election, Vice President Al Gore carried New England's vote by 56 percent, to George W. Bush's 37 percent. The region delivered 62 percent of its House vote to the Democrats, which split nationally, 49 percent to 49 percent.
Given these trends, some analysts said a Jeffords decision to switch parties was almost inevitable. 
"If it was going to happen anywhere, it's no surprise it happened here," Professor West said. 
As for the reaction back home, Representative Sanders said, "I suspect the next poll will show Senator Jeffords to be much more popular than President Bush." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); TRENDS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: BERNIE SANDERS (73%) TONER, ROBIN; JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (98%); VERMONT, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); SOUTHERN STATES (US); VERMONT

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



670 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: BALANCE OF POWER: THE TAX VOTE; 
SENATE APPROVES CUT IN INCOME TAX IN BIPARTISAN VOTE

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23 

 BODY:
By a large bipartisan majority, the Senate approved a sweeping tax-cut bill today with all the main elements President Bush proposed, and a conference committee began meeting this afternoon to work out the differences between this bill and legislation passed by the House of Representatives.
 Congressional leaders said chances were good that a final bill with the largest tax reduction in 20 years would be ready for the president to sign into law by the end of this week. 
 At the White House, the president urged the lawmakers to move quickly. "Our economy cannot afford any further delays," Mr. Bush declared. 
Democratic senators managed for two days to stave off passage of the legislation by offering amendment after amendment and requiring more than 40 roll-call votes. But Republicans prevailed on every vote, and the Democrats finally yielded. Ultimately, 12 Democrats joined all 50 Republicans in supporting the measure. The vote was 62 to 38.
"This is a real good day's work," Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, said after the vote.
"We have a tax surplus in America," Mr. Lott said, "and this will allow some of that surplus to stay with the people who earned it."
The passage of the tax legislation was overshadowed in the Capitol by the prospect that Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont would leave the Republican Party, turning over control of the Senate to the Democrats.
But the word in the Senate was that Mr. Jeffords had insisted that his action should not affect the tax bill. As a result, Democrats agreed to give Republican senators a majority on the conference committee.
The legislation would lower taxes by $1.3 trillion over the next 11 years, the first substantial tax reduction since 1981, the first year of Ronald Reagan's presidency.
Most Democrats continued to criticize the measure. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said the cut would "crowd out all other priorities" like further debt reduction and prescription coverage under Medicare and threaten the solvency of the Social Security and Medicare programs.
"I believe with all my heart we will regret the day this passes," Mr. Daschle said after the last vote.
The wisdom of a large tax cut has been debated since the presidential campaign last year, and no new arguments were made this week. Hardly any debate occurred in the Senate over the last two days because senators were operating under procedures that allowed little more than one vote after another.
Under the bill, all Americans who pay income taxes would get a tax cut this year of $300 -- $600 for couples -- and most of those with children would receive an even larger cut.
Beginning next year, tax rates would be reduced in stages. By 2007, the top tax rate, now 39.6 percent and paid on taxable income over $297,350, would be 36 percent. The other tax brackets above 15 percent would be lowered by 3 percentage points each. For instance, the 28 percent bracket would be reduced to 25 percent.
The across-the-board reduction was the core of the tax plan President Bush campaigned for last year and proposed to Congress this year.
Other central parts of the bill also proposed by the president would lower the taxes of married couples, double the tax credit for each child to $1,000, increase the size of estates exempt from taxation and repeal the estate tax in 2011.
The bill would allow a tax deduction of up to $5,000 per family to offset college tuition, increase the amount of income exempt from the alternative minimum tax and give more favorable tax treatment to pension and retirement programs. 
Today, the Senate added a provision that would make permanent a business tax credit for research and development due to expire in 2004. This is the only tax break for business in the bill. It is unlikely to survive the Senate-House conference.
The Senate and House bills are so similar that lawmakers should have little difficulty reaching agreement. The main problem will be to squeeze everything into the $1.35 trillion budget plan adopted by Congress two weeks ago.
The House bill would cut the top rate to 33 percent, compared with 36 percent in the Senate measure, and the Senate bill is somewhat more favorable to families of modest means. The Senate measure, for instance, would allow low-income families to receive a cash payment if they did not owe enough taxes to be able to claim a full tax credit for their children.
Republicans control the conference committee and will try to construct a final product as close as possible to what the president proposed. But they will be limited by a bipartisan group of moderates that holds the balance of power in the Senate.
Fifteen moderate senators who voted for the bill today signed a letter to Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is leading the Senate conferees, saying that "adhering as closely as possible to the Senate-passed bill is necessary in order to pass a conference report in the Senate."
They mentioned the size of the top rate and the refundable child tax credit as matters crucial to them.
The biggest beneficiaries of the bill would be the wealthy, who pay the most taxes and are the only ones whose taxes rose in the 1990's.
Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research institute that has the only computer model in private hands capable of figuring how people at different income levels would be affected, calculated that one-third of the total tax relief would go to the richest 1 percent of taxpayers, those with total income of more than about $375,000. Another one-third would go to the next 19 percent. And the 80 percent of taxpayers with incomes below $72,000 would get one-third of the $1.35 trillion in tax relief.
But families of modest means would get the biggest proportional tax cut.
According to calculations by Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm, if the bill were fully in effect, a couple with two children under 17 and a taxable income of $400,000 would have their income tax reduced to $90,888 from $104,877, a cut of $13,989, or 13 percent.
A couple with two children and an income of $36,000 would owe $1,520 under the current law and nothing under the Senate measure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, Trent Lott of Mississippi, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and Bill Frist of Tennessee, all Republicans, announced Senate passage of a tax bill yesterday. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A27) Chart: "AT ISSUE -- To Be Resolved in Conference"With the Senate having passed its version of the tax cut yesterday, negotiators from the two chambers will now work out the differences between the two versions and put it into a form that can win final approval. These are the major issues they will confront: HOW MUCH TO REDUCE THE TOP TAX RATEPresident Bush proposed cutting the top income tax rate of 39.6 percent to 33 percent, and the House bill did so. But the Senate bill reduced the top rate to 36 percent. WHO BENEFITS FROM THE CHILD CREDITThe Senate bill would allow low-income working families who do not pay any federal income tax to receive a portion of the child credit. Most Republicans in the House consider such a step to be akin to a welfare payment rather than a tax cut. HOW TO PROVIDE ECONOMIC STIMULUSThe two bills differ on how to apportion the $100 billion allocated by the bill to give a boost to the economy this year and next. Most Republicans favor a retroactive reduction in income tax rates, but some Democrats are pressing for immediate action in the form of rebate checks. SECONDARY PROVISIONSThe Senate bill would expand the individual retirement account and 401(k) retirement savings plan and would allow some taxpayers to deduct some college tuition costs. Some of those provisions and others might be dropped to make room for others. (pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); APPROVALS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); MEDICARE (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (61%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TRENT LOTT (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); RICK SANTORUM (54%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



671 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Senate Approves Tax Bill With a Cut of $1.3 Trillion
The Senate approved a sweeping $1.3 trillion tax-cut bill with all the main elements President Bush proposed, and a conference committee began meeting to work out the differences between the Senate version and legislation passed by the House of Representatives.
 Congressional leaders said chances were good that a final bill with the largest tax reduction in 20 years would be ready for the president to sign by the end of the week. Page A1. 

Euro Slides Along With Growth
The European economy showed troubling new signs of slower growth and faster inflation, a toxic mix that helped drive down the euro to its lowest level this year against the dollar. The bad news came from both Germany and France. Germany reported that economic growth in the first quarter slowed to an annual rate of 1.6 percent, and France reported that its comparatively robust economy had slipped as well, growing at an annualized rate of about 2 percent in the first quarter. In New York, the euro settled at 85.70 cents, down from 86.53 cents. World Business, Section W.

Stocks Slump in Profit Taking
Stock prices fell as investors pulled back in the absence of economic news and took some profits. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 151.73 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 11,105.51. The Nasdaq composite index fell 70.37 points, or 3 percent, to 2,243.48. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 20.33 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,289.05. C6.

Shoe Designer Enters Guilty Plea
Steven Madden, a designer of footwear and the founder of the company that bears his name, pleaded guilty to federal securities fraud and money-laundering charges. C2.

Personal Bankruptcy Filings Rise
A weakening economy and the anticipated passage of a bankruptcy reform bill caused a surge in the number of individuals filing for bankruptcy in the first quarter, according to an analysis of federal statistics. C12.

Warning Considered for Pfizer Drug
An advisory panel at the Food and Drug Administration will hear arguments on whether to add a warning to the label of Cardura, a blood pressure medication made by Pfizer, telling doctors and patients that it may be less effective than a cheaper generic drug. C3.

Glamour Editor Is Asked to Resign
Bonnie Fuller, the editor in chief of Glamour magazine since 1998, was asked to resign. Executives of Conde Nast, which owns the magazine, said Ms. Fuller had been asked to step down because of Glamour's recent poor performance on the newsstand. In addition, they said that during her tenure she never quite got off on the right foot with Conde Nast's top management and editors. C5.

Anti-Hacker Site Is Knocked Out
The CERT Coordination Center, one of the main places that the online world turns to for information when computer vandals attack, was itself bombarded. Its Web site was knocked out by a distributed denial of service attack, in which hackers flood a site with spurious demands for data and other tasks. C5.

Different Views on Deal for Lucent
As Alcatel and Lucent intensify merger talks, investors and analysts have divergent views about the merits of a combination. C2.

Pay Me Now vs. Pay Me Later
In calculating whether it is better to accept a lump sum or annual payments, sometimes it does not pay to take the money and run. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks closing price of Euro in dollars for the past week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 11,105.51 down 151.73Nasdaq composite -- 2,243.48 down 70.3710-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.39% unch.The euro -- $0.8570 down 0.0083The dollar -- 119.80 yen down 2.89 Graph: "TODAY" shows New-Home Sales from October 2000 through March.April figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -4.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOTWEAR (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STATISTICS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (71%); FASHION DESIGN (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (82%); STEVEN MADDEN LTD (54%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFEB (BRU) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%); SHOO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (54%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (54%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001 



672 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: HOME VIDEO; 
'Big Trouble': Big Comeback

BYLINE:  By Peter M. Nichols 

 BODY:
"All of a sudden it became kind of this weird favorite," said the director John Carpenter. Video can do that for a movie like "Big Trouble in Little China," Mr. Carpenter's 1986 film set in and under the streets of Chinatown in San Francisco. Some Carpenter films -- "Halloween," for example, and "Escape From New York" -- earned reputations in theaters. But others in the 80's -- "The Thing," "Prince of Darkness" -- built audiences on tape. 
 "Home video was cooking then," he said. Before the cassette, "Big Trouble," available this week in a DVD special edition from Fox, had problems with many critics and the studio. In those days Fox was run by Barry Diller. "He treated me O.K., but I don't think he liked the movie," Mr. Carpenter said. Kurt Russell stars as a trucker who helps Chinese friends rescue a green-eyed woman from a 2,000-year-old demon who needs to marry her to rule the world. There is much kung fu, but of a style found in films of the 60's and 70's. "An upscale send-up," Walter Goodman wrote in The New York Times. "Gives good value." 
 Fox wasn't so sure. "They didn't get it," Mr. Carpenter said. " 'Rambo 2' was out; that was the template for action movies. They were very patriotic." The kung fu, recently so captivating to viewers of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," raised eyebrows.
And in "Escape From New York" (1981) Mr. Russell played a mean machine. In "Big Trouble" his character fouls up and talks a lot. "The perception was that he was an idiot," Mr. Carpenter added. "They wanted an action hero."
He and Mr. Russell have a good laugh over all this during a commentary with the film. "It was ahead of its time," Mr. Carpenter says.

Mir, Above It All
It's a nice twist for a documentary. In May 1991 the cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev blasted off for the Russian space station Mir. During his mission the Soviet Union collapsed, and his return to earth was delayed for months.
Andrei Ujica's "Out of the Present," released on DVD this week by Facets Multimedia, makes intriguingly surreal work of this, probing inside Mir and floating above it, following tanks in the streets of Moscow as power begins to shift from Mikhail S. Gorbachev to Boris N. Yeltsin, pausing for long, mesmerizing looks at land masses passing beneath the ship, recording the unfailingly smiling faces of crew members who come and go by shuttle before and after the upheaval below.
Because of various political and economic problems, Mr. Krikalev is prevailed upon to stay aboard Mir. A lean, cheerful young man, he seems unconcerned.
"There is a mixed international company talking to you from a brand new control center with a brand new map," he is told when it is time to descend in March 1992.
Informed of all the changes, the cosmonaut is asked what impresses him most. "Just now it was night," he says. "Now it is light, and the seasons rush past."
Information: (800) 331-6197. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (72%); HALLOWEEN (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); SPACECRAFT (60%); SPACE STATIONS (60%) MOTION PICTURES; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (53%) CARPENTER, JOHN; NICHOLS, PETER M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%)

TITLE: BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



673 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2780 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
Miles Davis: Restless Grooves

BYLINE:  By BEN RATLIFF 

 BODY:
I'VE changed music five or six times," Miles Davis wrote in "Miles: The Autobiography" (1989), a book that offers a great modern example of the untrustworthy narrator. All the huffing and bluffing and posturing one ever suspected to be within him was collected in that volume; much of it was graceless and thickly applied, an older man's attempt to reassert his place in history when he may have been losing it. His new music wasn't what it used to be, and his discography was a shambles.
 If Davis, who died in 1991, did indeed believe that his importance was slipping, if he had anxiety about the future after he was gone, that only diversified the portfolio of psychological imperatives he regularly offered his audience. As much as the serious listener might hate to hear yet more about his image (all that old "Prince of Darkness" stuff), it is undeniable that his music draws some of its richness from extramusical gamesmanship: its cunning, guile, perversity and honesty. Miles Davis loved boxing, that second-guessing game. And he loved surprising people, giving them what they didn't expect. The well-considered pauses in his playing can be heard as the sound of a master strategist. 
 But back to that bold, bracing, even ridiculous idea about changing music: it's an assertion that few other jazz performers would bother making, since jazz makes changes only within its own world and usually operates on a conceptual model of slow refinement, rather than rupture and revolution. Inasmuch as Davis was different from most jazz performers -- and he was -- it is easier to say that he contributed new templates for making jazz, whereas most of his peers were content to inscribe established ones.
Davis, who would have been 75 tomorrow, is better served by reissues than any other artist in jazz. We've come a long way from the beginning of the CD era, when most of his work after 1967 was out of print, and what was in print suffered from bad audio transfers. Now Legacy, Columbia's reissue arm, has completed box-size reissues of all the major periods he was under its contract, sometimes treating a single album as a period (which was indeed the case, if you look closely).
It has been done with sensitivity, and the buyer has options: individual albums have all been singly rereleased, if you want to hear them as they were meant to be heard, free of context and scholarly apparatus. And if you want more, box sets range from $50 for a forthcoming three-CD collection covering his first stabs at jazz fusion to $109 for an eight-disc set of his early work.
To do his fender job on the century of American jazz, Davis's place and timing was perfect. He was 18 when he heard the Billy Eckstine band, an ark that carried Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Parker, in St. Louis in 1944. Davis left town in 1945, the year Parker and Gillespie made their first joint recordings and the first year bebop was generally acknowledged. As a well-heeled, quietly intense outsider slightly behind the curve, he had the advantage of seeing the risk-taking pioneers from a position of safety.
But then he submerged himself in fire, trying to keep up with Parker's frightening speed as a regular member of his band. These raw apprenticeship years are best collected on "CHARLIE PARKER: THE COMPLETE SAVOY AND DIAL RECORDINGS" -- (Savoy/Atlantic), including some sessions under Davis's name.
In 1948 Davis was able to put his name on his first head-turning record, though it had several authors. At the time he was part of a social scene that included the composer-arrangers Gil Evans and Johnny Carisi, the pianist John Lewis and the saxophonists Lee Konitz and Gerry Mulligan; they convened at Evans's Midtown Manhattan apartment, swapping ideas.
It would be hard to imagine more divergent talents coming together, but such were the times. Jazz had been chopped in half by bebop, which caused a long-lasting audience schism, killed the big bands and ended the idea of jazz as a dance music. The best of the young jazz composers in the late 1940's were trying to make something new on the devastated ground; theirs was a task not too dissimilar from the one facing the postwar German and Japanese novelists at the time.
The resulting nonet sessions -- "BIRTH OF THE COOL" -- (now reissued as "THE COMPLETE BIRTH OF THE COOL," -- Capitol) -- made as a series of individual 78-r.p.m. records organized and contracted for by Davis, acknowledge orchestral writing, European harmony and bebop phrasing. Their chastened rhythmic feeling, so different from bebop's charging subdivisions, was a sign not of retreat but of reconsideration. The recordings were credited to Davis, yet it would be hard to assign ownership of this music to anyone involved: nobody in the group made records quite like this later on. (Gil Evans came closest, and more on that anon.)
Aside from the idiosyncratic "Birth of the Cool," navigating early Davis is tricky. There were no LP's in the early and mid-1950's, so the master of the long-playing idea that Davis became was not yet born. But "WALKIN' " -- and "BAGS' GROOVE" -- (both on Original Jazz Classics) need little supporting context to be appreciated. By 1954, having come through his training in bebop -- a form so rigorous and seductive that it limited the artistic growth of a lot of good improvisers -- Davis had found his way to a confident improvisational style but still not a breakaway identity.
What is exciting, though, on "Walkin' " and "Bags' Groove" -- recorded from March to December of that year, amid a strafing of recordings he made for Prestige -- isn't just the newly commanding definition of Davis's own solos but the catalyzing combination of players. There's the exciting, cryptically rhythmic pianist Horace Silver; the majordomo of bebop drumming, Kenny Clarke; on saxophones, the upholstered, sweet-smelling phrasing of Lucky Thompson and the lightning jolts of Sonny Rollins; on vibes and piano, Milt Jackson and Thelonious Monk, respectively, masters of different sorts of swing. 
The logic of Davis's solos on "Walkin' " and "Bags' Groove" forecast a widely absorbing talent, encompassing Louis Armstrong's melodic economy and Dizzy Gillespie's piquant harmony. (A note to consumers: Prestige's cheap and voluminous approach to recording in those days placed little stock in the individual album as a work of art; to understand the man in full, you must spring for about $109 for "CHRONICLE," -- Fantasy's boxed set of everything Davis recorded for Prestige from 1951 to 1956.)

A Fuller Sound
Davis was a collaborative artist who ultimately found his identities through great bands, and Davis's bands from the late 1950's must be represented in any collection. This is where the piano-bass-drum team of Red Garland, Paul Chambers and Philly Joe Jones comes in, setting the rhythmic boundaries of mainstream jazz for decades. And this is also where John Coltrane entered the picture, in his late 20's and at a crossroads. 
Coltrane made a hesitant debut with the group in 1955; a little more than two years later, having quit heroin, he was the most individual saxophonist in jazz. The learning curve is astonishing, hitting its midpoint through "COOKIN' " -- and "RELAXIN' " -- (both on Original Jazz Classics) and becoming terrifying by the time of "MILESTONES" -- (Columbia Legacy).
At first the group was still making music the Prestige way: lots of material, unevenly collected. The Prestige albums were recorded in long sessions, like nightclub sets, and they have a charged, offhand air about them. But by "Milestones," in 1958, Davis was signed to Columbia, where the record making was minutely planned and the marketing was mass. Not the least of that album's strengths is simply that it sounds fuller, with a new heft in its middle and low ranges. 
The alto saxophonist Cannonball Adderley has joined the group, too, and though they were working on similar ideas of rhythm and phrasing, there is a tension between his honey-dripping soul and Coltrane's denser, more agonized wail. Here, too, on the album's title track, the band had discovered modalism. Modes became the tantric secrets of jazz: they shifted musicians away from the bebop orthodoxies of improvising on chords and sticking to standard song structures. "When you go this way," Davis said at the time, "you can go on forever."
For further research hear "KIND OF BLUE" -- (Columbia Legacy), if you're one of the few who haven't. This is the only jazz album that sells 5,000 copies a week, every week. Try to get beyond its landmark status. Listen to it as foreground music; listen to the solos, not just the full picture, as instantly attractive as that may be. (A curious book written a few years ago by the artists Komar and Melamid, called "Painting by Numbers," determined through polling that blue landscapes were the paintings most people wanted to look at. "Kind of Blue," with its openness, harmonic stasis and muted dynamics, is jazz's definitive blue landscape.)
The 1956 Davis quintet was an archetype; you could copy it for a living. But you couldn't do "Kind of Blue" for a living. Modal jazz turned out to be a flavor, not a whole cuisine. As is the case with most best-selling jazz records, melody is the strongest link in "Kind of Blue," rhythm the weakest. In the spirit of Davis, who hated platitudes and received opinions, try to listen for its shortcomings, too.
Of Davis's collaborations with Gil Evans, the first, the 1958 "MILES AHEAD" -- (Columbia Legacy), is my favorite. It radiates a brittle, exploratory honesty and expands on the promise of Evans's "Birth of the Cool" pieces recorded 10 years earlier. Its lack of overarching theme (as in the later Davis-Evans project "Sketches of Spain") or a single composer (as in their "Porgy and Bess") leads to a more constantly varied album.

Keeping Up With Modernity
Davis's second great quintet -- with Wayne Shorter on saxophone, Herbie Hancock on piano, Ron Carter on bass and Tony Williams on drums -- came together in 1964, and again Davis created a virus. In Downbeat blindfold tests, he professed to hate Ornette Coleman's music, but there has never been a jazz performer more anxious about keeping up with modernity. 
He heard it well, and perhaps his second quintet's new direction was a response. His own trumpet language had changed: he shot up into high registers, using smears and staple-gun staccato bursts. Instead of the bumpy, hollering openness in Mr. Coleman's band, Davis's music was finely applied: it became complexly chromatic, and Mr. Hancock added harmonic direction where Mr. Coleman's pianoless band couldn't.
Though their live sets were full of silences and tempo changes, it wasn't quite so otherworldly: Davis used recognizable ballad forms, even if he bent them. And he made the most of set pieces, small chunks of melody -- often from standards like "If I Were a Bell," "Stella by Starlight" or "I Fall in Love Too Easily," in which all members of the quintet precisely came together, only to ricochet off into their own paths. The band used Ahmad Jamal's notion of improvised form, with cues coming from the leader as to what section to play next, but loosened it up until it couldn't get any looser.
Highly abstract, yet sufficiently connected enough to all of jazz's prime values, the band inspired an awful lot of great small-group jazz in the next 35 years, including, most recently, Greg Osby's, Jacky Terrasson's and Dave Douglas's. The group was much more formal in the studio, reaching its zenith with "NEFERTITI" -- (Columbia Legacy), which shows Wayne Shorter's runic, dire writing style to its best advantage.
As for the band's live sound, we're lucky to have "THE COMPLETE LIVE AT THE PLUGGED NICKEL 1965," -- Columbia's after-the-fact document of a week in Chicago that was expanded in 1995 to an essential seven-disc set. (It's also available as the one-disc "HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE PLUGGED NICKEL" -- on Columbia Legacy.) "Mainstream" may connote old hat in certain cases, but this band defined mainstream jazz for a long time, and there's little about it that doesn't still sound modern.
Davis's discography has some great liminal moments between periods, but from 1967 to 1975, there seemed to be nothing but liminal moments as the transition from acoustic to electric jazz became a fitful, thrashing, years-long experiment.
In the box set collecting the music of the great second quintet, there are moments in 1968 -- as in the trancelike "Water on the Pond," the first intimation that Davis wanted to freeze up his rhythm section and swap improvisation for backbeats -- when you could swear you're hearing the aerated grooves of a 21st-century band like Tortoise. "LIVE AT THE FILLMORE EAST -- MARCH 7, 1970: IT'S ABOUT THAT TIME," -- to be released by Columbia Legacy in July, captures a momentary sextet with Chick Corea on electric piano alongside the bassist Dave Holland, the drummer Jack DeJohnette and the percussionist Airto Moreira; it's Wayne Shorter's last night onstage with Davis. This music, too, deserved its own full-fledged period: the music is frenetic, funky, gigantesque.
In the years after the second quintet, Davis's records became harder to understand as performances, edited as heavily as they were by Teo Macero in the studio. Cut-and-splice postproduction techniques didn't begin for Davis with the electric period, as people tend to think; even "MILESTONES" -- (Columbia Legacy) had master versions constructed of bits from different run-throughs. But "IN A SILENT WAY" -- (Columbia Legacy) introduced something altogether new, and another Columbia release, due out Sept. 11, "THE COMPLETE 'IN A SILENT WAY' SESSIONS" -- (Columbia Legacy) -- a three-disc set collecting all the studio jamming it took to construct that great work, as well as the final album itself -- shows some of the roundabout drudge work it took to make a Miles Davis record then.
Davis began to hemorrhage music, and of the eight double albums he made in quick succession from 1969 to 1975, I get the most instant satisfaction out of "GET UP WITH IT" -- (Columbia Legacy). The live albums may be more representative, and "BITCHES BREW" -- (Columbia Legacy) is unquestionably more famous, marking the zenith of Davis's popularity with the rock crowd. But "Get Up With It," released in 1974, was a record of extremes: white-knuckle tension in the six-minute "Rated X," nearly erotic lethargy in the 32-minute "He Loved Him Madly." 
If it isn't the culmination of Davis's first electric period -- that honor might go to "PANGAEA" -- (Columbia Legacy)-- it's the summit of the brash, avant-gardist record-making style that Mr. Macero honed for him. As with the first and second quintets, as with the bold assertions of "Birth of the Cool," this music still has much to say to us.

Dots of Color
Ending a five-year retirement in 1980, Davis made music that was more at peace with itself. The stock rhythm still hewed to the two-beat thrash of the early 70's; Davis still stabbed dissonant chords on whatever keyboard was at hand; and his trumpet style often amounted to dots of color rather than an actual melody. But he was returning to ballads, to pop songs, ultimately flirting with Prince and hip-hop. The Prince collaborations have only surfaced as bootlegs, and the hip-hop ("DOO BOP," -- Warner Brothers) was a lot worse than one should have expected.
Though Davis played well on it, avoid the 1985 "AURA" -- (Columbia Legacy), the electronic big-band record written by Palle Mikkelborg and marred by painfully out-of-date studio treatments: the aural equivalents of stonewashed jeans and legwarmers. Stick with the 1983 "STAR PEOPLE" -- (Columbia Legacy) for its rhythm-and-blues earthiness, and the 1985 "YOU'RE UNDER ARREST" -- (Columbia Legacy) for its Michael Jackson and Cyndi Lauper pop ballads, which, aside from being successes of form and function, were Davis's last great nose thumbing to the sort of jazz fan who thought he knew what was best for him.

Colors of Cool
"The Artwork of Miles Davis," a free exhibition of paintings and lithographs, as well as one of Davis's trumpets and photographs of him, will be on view through Aug. 31 at the Tourneau Time Machine Exhibition Gallery, Madison Avenue and 57th Street. Viewing hours: Mondays through Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.
The display is part of a free jazz series sponsored by Oris Swiss Made Watches that features weekly performances in the Tourneau Atrium at Madison Avenue and 57th Street. On June 21, from 5:30 to 7 p.m., the trumpeter Wallace Roney will perform works associated with Davis. Information: (212) 758-7300.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The trumpeter Miles Davis during a recording session in Manhattan for the 1959 album "Kind of Blue." (Don Hunstein/Sony Legacy)(pg. E22); (Larry Rivers)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%) MUSIC; REVIEWS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); ART 

PERSON: RATLIFF, BEN; DAVIS, MILES (1926-91) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



674 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Buying and Leasing; 
Wary of Experiencing Post-Warranty Blues

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER choosing the new car, picking the options, shopping from dealer to dealer, negotiating the price, working out the trade-in and the loan, comes a decision the buyer may never have considered: ensuring that the warranty will last when the car starts breaking down.
 Dealers call them service contracts, extended warranties or service reimbursements, said Donald L. Griffin, an executive at the National Association of Independent Insurers. Speaking of his trade group's member companies, he added, "the industry starts getting queasy when people start calling it insurance." 
 But insurance is exactly what it is, according to economists, who say that it amounts to a wager between the customer and the insurance company about what will go wrong after the manufacturer's warranty expires and the end of the policy. Typically, these contracts pick up at the beginning of the fourth year and run until the end of the seventh. Like other insurance, the contracts protect the customer from certain risks of unknown probability, at a fixed price. 
The car dealers and companies that make the wager with car buyers do not use the word, though. "Technically, for good reason, it's not considered an insurance product," said Dr. David J. Nye, a professor of finance and insurance at the University of Florida in Gainesville.
If it were called insurance, it would be regulated, he and other experts said. Government agencies would check on the financial stability of the seller, the training of the sales representatives and the clarity of the contract language, they said, as they do for insurance that applies to auto damage or liability or for homeowners insurance.
Instead, many states do not regulate the contracts at all, while others turn the job over to the state attorney general as a contract issue, according to Kristin Welschmeyer, a spokeswoman for the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
Most important, calling it a warranty extension "takes the profitability of the product off the table, as far as the regulators are concerned," Dr. Nye said. Thus price need not bear any relationship to cost.
I should know. I just spent $875 to protect myself against the possibility that the power doors on my new minivan will break when the manufacturer's warranty expires.
Not surprisingly, experts say the extended warranties are more profitable than other lines of insurance. "The price is not carved in stone," said one insurance executive, who insisted upon anonymity. "The dealer can mark it up or down."
People who have worked at car dealerships in the Finance and Insurance department, the back office where the buyer is sent after a warm handshake from the sales representative, say the markup can be 100 percent.
Unlike homeowners or life insurance, hardly anyone shops for warranty extension. "The competition to get you into the dealership and purchase a car is fierce," Dr. Nye said. "Once you're in there and you've bought the car," he added, "who else are you going to buy the warranty from? All they have to do is put a price point on it that you find acceptable. It's not like you're going to buy it from someone else."
Mr. Griffin of the insurers group pointed out, though, that there is nothing to stop a consumer from buying the car and the warranty extension from different places. A variety of vendors, including one airline frequent-flier program, sell the contracts, he added.
Can they be a good deal for the buyer? On average, no, experts say, because, as with all insurance, if the sellers paid out more in claims than they took in from car buyers, they would not be in business very long.
For some forms of insurance, the consumer knows he is likely to lose the bet but cannot tolerate the risk; fire insurance on a house is a familiar example, where the damage could run to tens of thousands of dollars, or even hundreds of thousands.
In contrast, the risk of the worst that can happen on a four-year-old car -- say, an irreparable engine or transmission problem -- is in the low thousands of dollars, and is not beyond the ability of most car buyers to absorb. But consumers, especially at the point of taking delivery, tend to be conservative, and about a quarter of them buy some kind of warranty extension, according to industry experts.
Some car experts swear by them.
"It's really a roll of the dice," said Neil G. Chirico, the road test coordinator at Edmunds, an online car advice service. "If you have one major repair, like the transmission or the engine, or even a major air-conditioning repair these days, you can easily cover the cost of the policy. If you have no repairs, then you've sunk a couple of thousand into basically some insurance."
Mr. Chirico, who said he had worked as a service adviser at a car dealership for eight years, said his conclusion was "the gamble was well worth it."
Mr. Chirico analyzes two extended warranty plans on the 2000 Honda Odyssey minivan, one from Honda and another by an outside vendor. (The article can be found under Advice on the company's Web site, www.edmunds.com.)
Mr. Chirico's opinion is not unanimously held, even within Edmunds; Bob Kurilko, vice president for product development and marketing at Edmunds and a 15-year veteran of Nissan, said that "for most people, the average claims against roughly a $1,000 policy are something like $150."
Cars are more reliable than they used to be, he said, and owners often trade in before the extended warranty is over.
"Playing the odds, you are much better off not buying an extended warranty," he said in an e-mail message. But, he added: "What is peace of mind worth if you're on a fixed budget? Everyone has their own personal assessment."
Dealers are good at probing for that assessment. Purchasing a Honda Odyssey in March, I was offered the "basic" extended warranty for $1,200. As I insisted that I was not interested, the price gradually fell to $875 for the "platinum" version. My assessment was that it was still not worth it.
"I'll give you my employee discount," said the dealer employee handling the closing. I still was not interested but my wife was; when the employee handling the closing said that it would add less than $8 a month to our payment, my wife said that we could compromise by counting the insurance as her birthday present.
We are buying an expensive new van with power doors, she said; what if they break? (Now, I suppose, I'm hoping for a repair of at least $875. But then she'll say, "I told you so.")
At Consumers Union, Robert Gentile, who gives car advice but does not do marital counseling, thought differently.
"In general, we recommend not opting for an extended warranty," said Mr. Gentile, an analyst at Consumers Union's New-Used Car Price Service. "We focus on what car is predicted to be reliable in the first few years."
"If you're totally intent on buying something with poor reliability ratings," he added, "in that case, you might get something." And if you do buy the insurance, ask for a contract offered by the auto manufacturer, he said. "It's easier to make claims against the car company, and there is less fine print, and so forth. They are much more straightforward to deal with."
Mr. Gentile recommended shopping for a warranty extension the way you would shop for a car, from dealer to dealer. And if you wake up the next morning and think you have made a mistake, he said, most states have a "buyer's remorse" clause that allows you to cancel, often for up to 30 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT WARRANTIES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (89%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); SALES FORCE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (72%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); SALES & SELLING (69%); MINIVANS (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SALES MANAGEMENT (64%); SALES TRAINING (64%); HOMEOWNERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INDEPENDENT INSURERS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



675 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Candidates in Peru's Presidential Race Peck at Fading Military 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, May 25 

 BODY:
The two presidential candidates competing to succeed the ousted President Alberto K. Fujimori have begun a gentle assault on the traditional third force in Peruvian politics -- the bloated and politically powerful armed forces -- as the military has sunk in prestige after an array of scandals.
 The military tied its fortunes to the 10-year Fujimori rule, and when that collapsed and the former president fled to Japan late last year, so the officers' fortunes sank too. During the last several months, 18 generals and admirals have been arrested on charges ranging from leading a paramilitary death squad to accepting bribes from drug traffickers and taking kickbacks from purchases of a squadron of overpriced and obsolete MIG-29 fighter jets. 
 More than 70 other officers have been cashiered in the single most sweeping cleansing of the Peruvian armed forces in modern history. There have been several other embarrassments -- an uprising last year by a military unit and the recent downing of an American missionary plane mistakenly thought to be trafficking in drugs. 
No institution has completely filled the vacuum where once the military presided as the final arbiter of Peruvian political life.
But the humiliation of the officers has been deep. Interim President Valentin Paniagua and Congress have quietly cut the military budget by more than $300 million this year. Investigations are under way to determine the military's culpability in a series of massacres between 1980 and 1995 during the war against two terrorist insurgencies. The military has even been forced to accept the appointment of a human rights truth commission and the unearthing of several clandestine graves -- two developments that would have been impossible just six months ago.
But President Paniagua has left it to the military to decide how to reorient its own training, force structure, combat manuals and a culture that for years has tolerated high levels of corruption with little or no civilian supervision.
There has been surprisingly little public debate about what kind of military Peru needs at a time when terrorism has been reduced to minor levels and long-standing border disputes with Ecuador and Chile have been resolved. Even as the political power of the military has gradually declined in Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia and even Chile, Peruvian political leaders have long respected military claims that they can manage their own affairs. 
With a total force of 115,000 men, and an army reserve force of 180,000 more, Peru's armed forces are nearly twice the size of those in Colombia -- a bigger country which is in the middle of a raging guerrilla war. In Peru, the $1.2 billion annual budget of the armed forces has been a major drain on a government that has insufficient resources to promote education and rudimentary health care.
For years after a left-wing military government ruled between 1968 and 1980, the Peruvian armed forces had a rocky relationship with the United States and relied on Soviet arms and trainers. Relations with Washington improved after Mr. Fujimori's first election in 1990, and the Bush and Clinton administrations drew close to the high command in its fight against terrorism and drug trafficking. 
The Peruvian military was barely mentioned in an hour and a half of televised presidential debate last week, and only by one candidate. But the issue has crept into the campaign. 
Alejandro Toledo, a former World Bank official who is well ahead in the polls leading to the June 3 vote, has used his stump speeches to call for cuts in defense spending and international arms purchases in order to increase social spending. 
"I know of lots of military men who want to reform the role of the military and we want to help them," Mr. Toledo said in a recent radio interview.
"The military has been much weakened," he said in another interview, during a flight between campaign stops in late March. "The desire for an attempt at moral rejuvenation is great and the people are demanding a moralization."
The other candidate, former President Alan Garcia, a populist whose 1985-1990 government was plagued by military human rights abuses, has also called for cuts in military spending, although he raises the issue less often and less prominently than Mr. Toledo.
But in an interview during the first-round campaign, Mr. Garcia noted that "we have a naval force with too many ships that are costly to maintain."
Even such mild criticism would have been taboo before Mr. Fujimori fled to Japan last November shortly after disclosures that his intelligence chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, and senior officers were tied to smuggling arms to the Colombian guerrillas. The entire high command, which was selected by Mr. Montesinos for its loyalty to the government, was forced to step down.
The military was further embarrassed last month when a captured videotape was released showing hundreds of top officers signing a document in 1999 that endorsed a 1992 coup by Mr. Fujimori, during which he closed Congress and the Supreme Court.
President Paniagua accepted the resignations of his high command, and reshuffled the senior officer corps for the second time in four months. But more than 1,000 officers who had also signed the document were not disciplined.
"That was a lost opportunity for a clean sweep," said Congressman Fernando Olivera. "But I understand the decision. President Paniagua did not want to destabilize the situation in the middle of a presidential campaign."
While President Paniagua has cut back on military attaches with large salaries and limited duties in foreign embassies, he has not acted to shave significantly the number of generals and admirals, now more than 250.
Carlos Tapia, a sociologist who is a former lecturer at the Peruvian military academy, said civilian politicians remain wary of challenging the military because the government depends on the military to build rural roads, fight drug trafficking and share intelligence gathered by the security forces. He noted that the army also has strong ties to peasant militia groups that were formed during the war against terrorism and now provide vital functions such as building housing and schools.
Senior officers have remained quiet about the changes their institutions are going through. But in a recent meeting with foreign correspondents, Defense Minister Walter Ledesma pledged that the military was ready for reform.
"The armed forces are profoundly committed to democracy and human rights," Mr. Ledesma said. Referring to cuts in his budget, he added, "we are very conscious of the economic problems of the country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); HISTORY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ETHICS (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); TERRORISM (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); BRIBERY (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ARRESTS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ELECTIONS; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; GARCIA, ALAN; TOLEDO, ALEJANDRO; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (99%); ECUADOR (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) PERU

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



676 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Spy Plane's Return Seems Near, but U.S. Won't Confirm Deal 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, May 24 

 BODY:
The Chinese government said today that it had agreed to what it called an American plan to dismantle the damaged Navy surveillance plane now sitting on a southern Chinese island and ship it home in pieces. 
 American officials declined to confirm any such agreement and said talks were continuing. But statements from both sides indicated that the confrontation over the spy plane, which made an emergency landing on Hainan island on April 1 after colliding with a tailing Chinese fighter jet, might be drawing to a close. 
 The Chinese pilot and jet were lost at sea, and in China the episode set off a burst of nationalistic resentment toward the United States and demands for a public apology for the spying and the collision. 
American officials, in turn, were angered when China held the 24-member crew for 11 days. The Pentagon also insists that the accident was caused by the Chinese pilot's recklessly close approach to the lumbering spy plane. 
Initially, American officials voiced hopes that the aircraft could be repaired and flown home. But the Chinese government, which heard domestic grumbling about "weakness" when it released the American crew, has made it a point of pride that the EP-3 surveillance craft will not be allowed to fly out on its own power.
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, noting that he had not seen the report from China, said today that two approaches to returning the plane were being discussed with the Chinese, neither of which involved totally dismantling the plane. 
"One is to see if it can be properly repaired and flown out," Mr. Rumsfeld said, "and a second is the thought of landing a very large cargo plane at the airport where the EP-3 is, taking the wings off, and putting the fuselage and the wings in one or two of these very large cargo planes." 
On Sunday, Vice President Dick Cheney said the plane might be too badly damaged to be repaired and flown out of China. 
Zhu Bangzao, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, speaking today at a regularly scheduled press conference, said: "The United States has submitted a proposal to take apart the plane and take it back. The Chinese side has agreed to that." Mr. Zhu added that details, including the timing and mode of return, were still under discussion. 
"We do not agree to flying this plane out of China," Mr. Zhu said. "That is impossible." 
An American Embassy spokesman told reporters that talks were continuing but that he could not confirm agreement on dismantling of the aircraft. 
Apart from resentment over the fatal accident -- the lost Chinese pilot has been officially lionized as a heroic martyr -- many Chinese expressed bitterness about the routine American surveillance flights just outside China's territorial waters. The United States says such flights are legal and will continue, and at least one more has already been conducted since the accident.
The collision was one of several recent irritants to Chinese-American relations, including the Bush administration's decision to authorize large arms sales to Taiwan, the very public "transit" visit in New York this week by Taiwan's president and President Bush's meeting with the exiled Dalai Lama, whom the Chinese see as an enemy. Washington has also been alarmed by the recent arrests on unexplained spy charges of several ethnic Chinese scholars who are American citizens or permanent residents.
Despite the tensions, the Chinese government has made clear that it wants better ties with the United States and wants to push ahead with entry into the World Trade Organization, under which it will reduce trade barriers. China's leadership has staked the country's economic future on further integration with the West and its advanced technologies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (92%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (92%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); AIRPORTS (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%) MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (54%) ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



677 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Drop for First Time In Three Month 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes in the United States fell in April for the first time in three months while holding at a level above the record number sold three years ago, a government report showed today.
 New-home sales dropped 9.5 percent, to 894,000 at an annual pace, the slowest in five months, from a rate of 988,000 in March, the Commerce Department said. The report reflects changes in the way the government measures the statistics. 
 Still, sales are running faster than they did for all of 1998, a record year for builders. That suggests housing will help keep the economy buoyant, as Federal Reserve policy makers have suggested in recent comments.
In 1998, 886,000 new homes were sold. For the last five months, the annual rate of sales has exceeded that number. New homes account for about 15 percent of all houses sold and their sales help the economy by bolstering spending on construction, furniture and appliances.
In a separate report today, the Labor Department said that the number of workers applying for state unemployment benefits rose by 15,000 last week, to a level of 407,000. That is close to a five-year high of 425,000 set in the last week of April.
The report on new-home sales includes new methodology and revisions dating to 1999, and Commerce Department officials warned that the April number was not comparable with previously published figures. The largest change is elimination of an automatic 3.3 percent increase added since 1960 to account for builders who did not take out building permits. The permits data is used in estimating the new-home sales figures.
The report also includes unadjusted statistics on the number of houses sold by price, figures on the various stages of construction and the median number of months that new homes are on the market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (96%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BUILDING PERMITS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%) HOUSING; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



678 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Merger Talks Intensify For Alcatel and Lucent
Merger talks between Alcatel of France and Lucent Technologies moved into their final stages as executives convened in Paris to formally negotiate the details of the transaction, executives close to the talks said.
The executives said they were hoping to reach an agreement by next week. But they cautioned that both companies could still decide to abandon the deal. Page C2. 
Files Shed Light on Auction Case
Handwritten memorandums at the center of the collusion case of Christie's and Sotheby's auction houses suggest that the companies secretly altered time-honored and costly inducements used to attract sellers. A1.
Payments to Hospitals on Rise
Many hospitals are winning sharply higher payments from insurers, and the efforts by insurance companies to pass those costs along to employers and consumers are contributing to a rapid surge in medical costs. A1.
Delay Urged in Study Disclosure
A majority on a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel agreed that doctors should be told of the results of a study that found that a blood pressure drug sold by Pfizer was less effective than a cheaper generic drug called a diuretic. But the panel said the agency should wait to inform doctors until the agency had more information from the study. Shares of Pfizer fell 63 cents, to $42.92. C11.
Firestone Seeks to Win Back Public
Firestone hopes to win back public confidence by quietly acknowledging that it has made some faulty tires while also trying to shift much of the blame for accidents to Ford. C2.
Scoring Error on Business Exam
A scoring error by the Educational Testing Service last year caused nearly 1,000 people to get lower scores than they deserved on the Graduate Management Admission Test, a business school entrance exam. A21.
Nasdaq Leads a Rally in Stocks
Stocks rallied after a Federal Reserve official said interest-rate reductions should spur an economic rebound. The Nasdaq composite index gained 38.54 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,282.02. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.12 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,293.17. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 16.91 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,122.42. C6.
ING Sizes Up Possible Takeovers
Even as it is absorbing two big acquisitions that vaulted it to the top ranks of American insurance, ING, the Dutch banking and insurance company, is sizing up more potential takeover targets. Ewald Kist, ING's chief executive, said that while he did not expect to make any bids for 18 months or so, he wanted to strengthen his United States operations by buying a mutual fund company or two, some life insurers and perhaps a stake in a large bank. World Business, Section W.
Aimster, a Music Service, Is Sued
The major recording companies filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against Aimster, which allows users of instant messaging services to exchange music and other files. C2.
Argentina Announces a Debt Swap
Argentina announced a voluntary plan to swap up to $67 billion of debt for new securities that would delay millions of dollars in interest payments for the government. C4.
 Bond Market to Close Early Today
The bond market will close at 2 p.m. today in advance of the Memorial Day weekend. Financial markets in the United States will be closed on Monday, but foreign markets will be open.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Pfizer's stock progress since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 11,122.42 up 16.91Nasdaq composite -- 2,282.02 up 38.5410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.47% up 0.08The euro -- $0.8568 down 0.0002The dollar -- 119.84 yen up 0.04 Graph: "TODAY" shows "Durable Goods Orders" from Oct. 2000-March 2001.April figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -2.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); HOSPITALS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); TIRES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (68%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (67%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); LITIGATION (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); ING GROEP NV (84%); PFIZER INC (55%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%); INGA (BIT) (84%); INGA (AMS) (84%); ING (NYSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



679 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Medical Costs Surge as Hospitals Force Insurers to Raise Payments 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Many hospitals are winning sharply higher payments from insurers, and the efforts by insurance companies to pass those costs along to employers and consumers are contributing to the most rapid surge in medical costs in years.
 Medical costs increased 10 to 15 percent in the first quarter for the biggest insurance companies after averaging 5 to 6 percent for a decade. Experts expect them to keep rising. And health maintenance organizations are asking the employers that are their biggest customers for increases in premiums averaging 18.3 percent, according to a preliminary estimate by Hewitt Associates, with proposed increases as high as 60 percent. 
 The rising medical costs come from both new and familiar sources. 
A growing number of hospitals are becoming more powerful in their regions through mergers and acquisitions. As they take control of more of their local markets, they are using their enhanced market power to demand major increases in payments from health insurance companies. Some have effectively fired insurers that refused to pay up, refusing to accept patients covered by those plans. A few hospitals have demanded increases as high as 40 to 60 percent for some services.
Often, these hospitals have received no increase in payments for years. Now, among other challenges, they are contending with rising labor costs for nurses, pharmacists and other workers in short supply. 
In New York, Mount Sinai, New York Presbyterian and North Shore-Long Island Jewish extracted double-digit increases from some insurers in the most recent contracts.
In Boston, Partners Healthcare, which includes Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women's Hospital, won significant increases from the Tufts Health Plan and is now jousting with Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, the other big Boston H.M.O., over a proposed 25 percent increase in overall payments over four years. 
The Stanford University Medical Center told six major California H.M.O.'s this month that it would no longer accept flat payments, called capitation, for each health plan member. In Chicago, Portland, Ore., and Orange County, Calif., hospitals have broken off relations with health plans that refuse to agree to the higher payments the hospitals demand. 
Hospitals in Waukegan and Evanston, Ill., have asked for increases of 40 percent to 60 percent for some services, blaming a 17-year freeze in state Medicaid payment rates and low payments from managed care companies. 
At the same time, the insurance companies are dropping many of the restraints on care that infuriated consumers and doctors but kept their costs in check.
In addition, drug costs continue to rise precipitously. Prescription drug costs increased nearly 19 percent last year, and analysts expect further hefty increases this year and in 2002. New and more widely used forms of sophisticated diagnostic and treatment equipment are also raising costs.
Insurance companies are asking for higher payments as corporate profits are sliding. Many executives increasingly say they are fed up with managed care, which was supposed to control costs.
"Employers in general have lost faith in managed care as it was five years ago," said Peter Lee, president of the Pacific Business Group on Health, an employers' group that negotiates rates with health plans and presses for improvements in the quality of care. Managed care "no longer rings true with large employers," he said.
Rising costs pervade the health care system. Even as advertising-fueled demand for prescription drugs is increasing spending on health care, advances in surgery, medical devices and diagnostic techniques like bone scans are raising costs for hospitals and health plans. 
"The cost explosion is going to get worse," said Helen Darling, a health care expert at the Watson Wyatt benefits consulting firm. "We haven't seen the full impact of new technology across the board." 
For example, medical device makers like Medtronic Inc. and the Guidant Corporation are racing for regulatory approvals for implant devices that prolong the lives of patients with congestive heart failure. The devices are expected to cost up to $25,000 each.
"Many more people are getting more sophisticated things," said David Cutler, a Harvard University professor of economics. More than 50 percent of Medicare beneficiaries now have an angiogram to examine their arteries after a heart attack, compared with only 10 percent in the early 1980's. Such technologies help extend lives, but they are costly. An angiogram costs $3,000 to $4,000 at a big metropolitan teaching hospital.
Some of the largest insurance companies have, meanwhile, dropped reviews of doctors' orders and other so-called gatekeeping measures that had kept some medical costs in check. 
Some plans are even moving away from charging monthly capitation fees for each member, said Kenneth L. Sperling, a consultant at Hewitt Associates. Capitation enraged doctors, but did keep costs in check because doctors had a stake in keeping down costs. "Getting away from capitation is not good for keeping costs under control," said Paul B. Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonprofit research center in Washington.
Instead, the insurers are going back to paying a fee for each service and some health plans are again requiring patients to pay 20 percent of the fee, just as they did before managed care, instead of covering all but a few dollars. 
The accelerating medical costs have caught several large insurance companies off guard. This month, Aetna Inc., the nation's largest health insurer, reported a quarterly loss after medical costs rose 15 percent. The Cigna Corporation, the third-largest managed care company, said that costs rose 11 percent in the first quarter. Cigna had expected an increase of 8 or 9 percent. 
Dr. John P. Rowe, chairman and chief executive of Aetna, parried questions about whether his policy of loosening restraints on doctors and creating a "kinder, gentler" Aetna had opened the way for rising costs. But securities analysts said the connection was plain, at Aetna and other insurers.
"There is no management of care going on," Ms. Darling of Watson Wyatt said. If it were not for discounts that insurers can negotiate for groups with lots of employees, she added, "it would look like the old indemnity world" when employers and patients paid for each service and there were few attempts to hold down costs. 
To be sure, insurers usually receive smaller increases than they request. Hewitt Associates estimates that premiums increased just 7 percent last year, after earlier forecasts of double-digit increases. But the insurers are asking for bigger increases this year than they have in the past.
TIAA-CREF, the teachers' pension fund manager, expects H.M.O. premiums for 4,800 employees to rise about 12 to 13 percent next year across the country, up from 10 percent in 2001. Tom Hartnett, a benefits manager at the funds, said he was willing to give managed care "more time," but added that the "great savings are already over."
Smaller employers, which have less leverage with insurance companies, often face higher increases. "We have to grin and bear it," said Cliff Goodman, human resources director of West Mills Clothes Inc. in Woodside, Queens, which makes Lord West tuxedos and provides health insurance to 99 employees. "Unless you have a really good claims history and a young group," he said, a company cannot shop around for a better deal.
Mr. Goodman expects an increase of about 13 percent in his premiums, but he has yet to hear from two major insurers.
Employees are also feeling the financial squeeze. Hewitt Associates said that employees in company health plans would pay $1,274 each, on average, this year, up from $1,186 in 2000 and $1,055 five years ago. But employers will still be paying about three-quarters of the growing total. "This year's health plans still reflect last year's perceptions from the tight labor market," said Jon R. Gabel, who tracks health costs at the Health Research and Educational Trust in Washington. 
Those perceptions may be changing with growing concerns about the economy. In California, the Public Employees Retirement System is requiring some of the people it covers to pay more for doctor visits and prescriptions. For the first time, its H.M.O. members will pay $5 for generic drugs, $15 for approved brands and $30 for other drugs for a 30-day supply. The changes will bring the average premium increase at the organization to 6 percent, instead of 15 to 18 percent, for 970,000 H.M.O members in 2002.
To offset rising costs in plans that include fewer managed care strictures, the organization adopted premium increases of 16.4 percent and 24.4 percent late last week, for 200,000 members in two preferred provider organizations.
As costs rise, some economists said, the growing unhappiness could stoke popular demand for political solutions, and even revive interest in a national single-payer health system like Canada's.
"In 1991 and 1992, the last time a business slowdown coincided with double-digit inflation in health costs, people started to talk about universal health coverage," recalled Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton University economist. Instead, employers placed their faith in managed care.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "It's Costing More To Stay Healthy"Chart shows national average gross cost of health care insurance for each employees since 1997.(Source: Hewitt Associates)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DRUG PRICES (83%); PHARMACISTS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); MERGERS (74%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (54%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOSPITALS; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LABOR; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (71%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



680 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Where Bison Meets Oil Rig, Talk of Cooperation 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: PAWHUSKA, Okla., May 23 

 BODY:
In the green hills of northern Oklahoma, free-roaming bison lumber through the wildflowers of a tallgrass prairie, a 19th century vista cultivated by private conservationists and disturbed only by the presence of a hundred or so aging oil wells, creaking in the breeze.
 Gale A. Norton, the interior secretary, paused several times this morning to admire, in equal measure, not just the buffalo and their new calves but the grasshopper-style oil pumps as well. 
 "The preservation of this unique habitat, with tallgrass prairie and buffalo being fostered at the same time energy production is taking place, is very encouraging," Ms. Norton said during a three-hour ride through the Tallgrass Prairie preserve. She spoke softly and cautiously to her small entourage, which included her elderly parents sitting two rows back in a van that bumped along the gravel roads. 
As head of the mammoth Interior Department, supervising federal lands that amount to nearly a third of the United States, Ms. Norton had a principal hand in constructing the Bush administration's ambitious new energy blueprint, which emphasizes domestic oil and gas production, even if it involves opening public lands to new development. Vilified by environmental groups from the start as an enemy of the very mountains, forests, deserts and waters she oversees, Ms. Norton says she is not an unblinking champion of private industry.
"What we're trying to do is to substitute cooperation for conflict," Ms. Norton said, her hair blown by the winds of an Oklahoma spring during an interview this morning. "We need to have stringent environmental regulation to protect the environment. But this is an example of going beyond regulation and taking steps to enhance the environment. And if you have that kind of cooperative arrangement, you can achieve great things."
The preserve, which stretches across some 60 square miles of the Osage Hills, is owned and managed by the Nature Conservancy, a private conservation group. But the mineral rights are owned by the Osage Indians, who have no intention of ending the drilling that has supported the tribe for nearly a century, setting up what Ms. Norton described as an ideal laboratory for coexistence.
"We have to find a way to produce the resources that we need and, at the same time, to protect the environment," said Ms. Norton, whose words sound more passionate in person than they may in print. 
Only last Saturday, she was delivering a speech to the National Rifle Association convention in Kansas City, where she hailed the organization's members as "America's unsung conservation heroes." (Two weeks earlier, she recalled today, she was shooting skeet at Camp David with President Bush, whom she described as a much better shot than herself.)
Ms. Norton seems undaunted by the attacks on her, even reaching out to critics, including the leaders of environmental organizations who opposed her nomination, as well as to the actor Robert Redford, a committed environmentalist. 
Aides said Ms. Norton was disappointed when Mr. Redford rebuffed an invitation to witness a planned release of captive California condors into the wild, saying in a letter that he preferred 'to use what time I have to focus on the devastating environmental repercussions of the agenda you and President Bush embrace."
It will fall to Ms. Norton to carry out what may be the most far-reaching recommendations in the administration's energy plan. She has been directed to identify, to the greatest extent possible, public lands on which restrictions should be eased to allow increased energy development. The review is expected to focus on oil- and gas-rich areas of the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf of Mexico.
Ms. Norton said she did not expect that process to result in "any dramatic change taking place." But she said she could not be specific.
Ms. Norton would say only that the review would be conducted on a "case-by-case basis," with the greatest possible participation from states and local communities. 
"Getting everyone to sit down together to solve problems is what we'd like to address," she said, "and I think that works a lot better than across-the-board dictates from Washington."
Until this week, Ms. Norton's only trip as interior secretary to an energy-producing area was in March, when she and a delegation headed by Sen. Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, visited the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, which the administration is asking Congress to open to oil production. In this week's springtime warmth in Oklahoma, Ms. Norton remembered that subzero weather with a shiver, but said the project here and the one proposed for Alaska shared a commitment to environmental protection.
"This is old-style oil production, and what we're proposing for the Arctic is very high-tech," she said.
Harvey Payne, director of the preserve, which was established in 1989, and Kerry L. Sublette, a University of Tulsa professor who heads an environmental research project here, said that drilling had harmed the local habitat but that the long-term damage had been minor.
"We have had oil spills here, and nobody wants them to happen," Mr. Payne said. "But if the oil producer is conscientious, and if he tends to his business, the impact will be minimal."
Dr. Sublette is the head of the Integrated Petroleum Environmental Consortium, which is supported by grants from the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy. It works with oil producers on plans to mitigate environmental damage.
In a telephone interview, Steve McCormick, the chief executive officer of the Nature Conservancy, which is based in Arlington, Va., said he shared Ms. Norton's view that "thoughtfully placed and carefully managed extraction activities" could coexist with environmental protection. Asked about Ms. Norton, Mr. McCormick said: "I think she has an attitude that is genuine in allowing preservation while at the same time allowing human use."
But in a separate interview, Bill Meadows, president of the Wilderness Society, said, 'We still believe that there are certain places, including the Arctic refuge, and other special places like the Rocky Mountain front, where the conservation values so outweigh economic values that it would be inappropriate to go there."
Ms. Norton, who is traveling this weekend to Wyoming to accept a gift of land from the Rockefeller family that will add to Grand Teton National Park, described her first months in office as "a blur." moved from their previous home outside Denver.
Unlike James Watt, the Reagan-era interior secretary she worked for in the early 1980's, Ms. Norton does not revel in the fervor of her opponents. But she said she accepted that criticism came with the territory.
"You kind of get used to it," she said, "and I understand now that this is not an easy job." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gale A. Norton, the interior secretary, toured a prairie preserve Wednesday outside Pawhuska, Okla. She met with Harvey Payne, left, director of the preserve, and Charles Tillman, chief of the Osage Nation. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INDIANS, AMERICAN; PRAIRIES; LAND USE POLICIES 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY; OSAGA INDIANS; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; NORTON, GALE (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); MISSOURI, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%) TALLGRASS PRAIRIE (OKLAHOMA)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



681 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Unhappy With City Tax Breaks, N.B.A. Drops Move to West Side 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The National Basketball Association's plans to move its headquarters to a site at Ninth Avenue and 33rd Street behind the Farley Post Office died this week after the city declined to provide a large enough package of tax breaks, executives involved in the negotiations said.
 That does not mean that the New York Knicks have lost interest in the site. The Cablevision Systems Corporation -- which owns the Knicks, the Rangers and Madison Square Garden -- is considering the site, among others, for a new arena. 
 The site is in the semi-industrial neighborhood that is awash in proposals for Olympic stadiums, skyscrapers and the expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. With few development sites available elsewhere in Manhattan, builders and city officials view the far West Side as their next frontier.
The basketball league had planned to move from the Olympic Tower on Fifth Avenue to a proposed office tower on the Ninth Avenue site, which is controlled by Harvey Schulweis. The association also planned to move nearly 500 employees at N.B.A. Entertainment from Secaucus, N.J., to the tower. 
As part of the deal, Mr. Schulweis needed the city to extend a 1990 special permit for a one-million-square-foot tower, which is to expire next month. The league wanted a steep property tax break as well as the elimination of sales and mortgage recording taxes. The league had planned to take about half the space in the proposed building.
The site is at the northern end of a block on the west side of Ninth Avenue, from 31st to 33rd Street. Since part of the block is over a railroad track, the developer would have to build a platform, which could cost $40 million.
Last week, real estate executives and city officials said, the City Economic Development Corporation told the league that it was willing to give the project a sales tax break and a limited property tax abatement, but that it could not be as generous as the league had hoped. A few days later, the league decided it was not enough, they said.
Mr. Schulweis, who heads a partnership that has controlled the site for nearly 15 years, would not discuss his talks with the league. 
"I'm moving ahead as best I can to wind up with a completed building and a tenant," Mr. Schulweis said. "The N.B.A. was an option that may or may not materialize."
Michael Bass, a spokesman for the league, said the city's tax offer was not "of a sufficient magnitude" to make the project workable. "We're still looking for a way to consolidate," he said. Two executives involved in the negotiations with the city said the league was considering whether to expand at or near its offices in Secaucus.
One city official said the city was unlikely to extend Mr. Schulweis's permit if the league dropped out of the project. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SALES TAX (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WINTER SPORTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%) BASKETBALL; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN; TAXATION; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; HOCKEY, ICE 

COMPANY: CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (72%); NBA ENTERTAINMENT (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%) NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; NEW YORK RANGERS; CABLEVISION CORP 

TICKER: CVC (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%) SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



682 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Big Dutch Insurer Sizes Up Potential Takeovers 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM, May 22 

 BODY:
Even as it is absorbing two big acquisitions that vaulted it to the top ranks of American insurance, ING, the big Dutch banking and insurance company, is sizing up more potential takeover targets in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
 Ewald Kist, ING's chief executive, said in an interview that while he did not expect to make any bids for 18 months or so, he wanted to strengthen his United States operations by buying a mutual fund company or two, some life insurers and perhaps a minority stake in a big bank. He did not name names. 
 In Canada, Mr. Kist said, he was looking for a big life insurance company. In Mexico, he has decided to buy the remaining 59 percent of the country's biggest insurer, Seguros Comercial America, in which ING took a 41 percent stake last year. 
Though he said ING's top priority now was digesting the two American insurers it bought last year for nearly $14 billion -- Reliastar of Minneapolis and the retirement services and international life insurance businesses of Aetna, based in Hartford -- Mr. Kist said he had no choice but to keep buying companies. 
"We want to stay in the top 10 in the United States and the world," he said "Others are growing bigger and bigger. We need to keep building through acquisitions and internal growth, or we might be kicked out of the top 10." 
The competition is constantly on his mind. Through his floor-to-ceiling office windows in ING's headquarters tower on the southern edge of Amsterdam, Mr. Kist looks out at the headquarters of ABN Amro, the rival Dutch banking house that took over ING's struggling American investment banking arm, ING Barings, for $275 million earlier this year. 
ING kept the Barings name and retained about 500 employees in New York to support its remaining investment banking operations in Europe, Asia and Latin America. But Mr. Kist conceded that his company found it could not compete in the hottest investment banking market in the world against powerhouses like Goldman, Sachs and Morgan Stanley. 
ING was created by a giant merger 10 years ago, combining an insurance company, Nationale-Nederlanden, with a bank, NMB Postbank Group. Just over half its revenue now comes from insurance, one-third from banking and the rest from asset management, including mutual and pension funds. 
Earlier this week, ING reported a 10.6 percent gain in net income for the first quarter, less than the company had hoped for but more than European analysts had been expecting. The company and several analysts attributed the showing, better than that of many competitors at a time of economic uncertainty, in part to ING's geographic breadth -- it does business in 65 countries -- and to the diversity of its businesses. In the first quarter, for example, insurance gains offset banking losses.
In the United States, chief executives rarely disclose their acquisition strategies for fear of tipping off competitors, driving up prices of companies they seek or looking like failures if targets get away. 
But Mr. Kist, a marathon runner and former member of the Netherlands' Olympic field hockey team who took charge of ING a year ago after more than 30 years with the company, feels talking about the strategy is good advertising. "Somebody could knock on our door," he said, "and say, 'Hey, let's team up.' "
In the United States, Mr. Kist said, he would consider buying mutual fund companies independently or as part of life insurance companies whose other businesses were a good fit for ING. He especially wants insurers that specialize in fast-growing businesses like running 401(k) retirement programs and selling insurance intended to offset estate taxes. 
Colin Devine, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in New York, said John Hancock Financial Services and Lincoln National were companies that fit Mr. Kist's shopping list. "I would be shocked if he doesn't make an aggressive play for one of the two," Mr. Devine said. 
Mr. Kist expressed admiration for the handiwork of Sanford I. Weill, the chief executive of Citigroup, which combines banking, insurance and asset management on a large scale. "It's a special animal," Mr. Kist said of Citigroup. "We want to be another special animal." 
But Mr. Kist has taken a different approach to retail banking in the United States. Instead of buying a big bank, ING started its own nine months ago, and instead of dotting the landscape with branches, ING Direct is a no-frills, low-cost Internet bank that eschews checking accounts and teller service, relying instead on high interest rates to pull in savings deposits. 
Arkadi Kuhlmann, the chief executive of ING Direct, said it now had deposits of $1.5 billion from 150,000 customers. 
"We could not beat them on their own playing field, so we are doing things differently," Mr. Kist said of Citibank. 
Until the latest acquisitions, ING had quietly run a cluster of insurance companies in the United States under individual names like Equitable of Iowa and Georgia Life. But now it is uniting them under the ING logo. To cut costs, it is grouping related businesses around the country. Hartford, for example, is becoming the center for its retirement-services businesses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ewald Kist, the chief executive of ING, in front of the company's new headquarters under construction in Amsterdam. "We want to stay in the top 10 in the United States and the world," he said. (Bernd Bohm for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); TAKEOVERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MERGERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); BONDS (63%) INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ING GROEP NV (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ING GROUP (INTERNATIONALE NEDERLANDEN GROEP NV); SEGUROS COMERCIAL AMERICA 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%); ABO (ASX) (58%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; KIST, EWALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (72%) MEXICO; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



683 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Investors Are Rushing to Mexico, Despite Slowing Growth 

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 24 

 BODY:
With the cooling of the United States economy, Mexico's mood this month has been generally dour. Unemployment is up, exports are slumping and the numbers show the country headed for a recession.
 Then the news grew worse. The peso, historically weak and humble, continued to strengthen against the dollar, leading many to worry that it had become overvalued. And for Mexicans, who have not forgotten the crippling 1995 peso crisis, a bloated currency is the quiet before the storm. 
 So while they bit their lips waiting for the worst, the international investment community did just the opposite. It lifted its cups in unison, proposed a hearty toast, and doused Mexico with an avalanche of investment.
Last week, when Citigroup announced its $12.5 billion acquisition of Mexico's second-largest bank, Grupo Banacci, it highlighted a puzzling trend in Mexico. So far this year, Mexico's economy has scarcely grown. In the first quarter it expanded 1.9 percent from the quarter a year earlier; last year, the increase was 7.7 percent.
But at the same time, record amounts of capital are gushing in. Mexico received $3.6 billion in direct foreign investment in the first quarter, a 17 percent increase over the period last year. This figure is expected to hit the roof in the coming months when Citigroup's billion-dollar deal is completed; it alone will nearly match all of Mexico's direct foreign investment during the last year.
And Mexico's stock market, the Bolsa, has responded vigorously to the news, growing 16 percent in dollar terms this week.
So why is Mexico worried if Wall Street is so happy?
In the past, Mexico would have welcomed so much foreign investment. But today, the country is struggling to accommodate it. Mexico's economy is fueled in large part by its export industry, which sends nearly 90 percent of its finished products to the United States. So when America stops buying, Mexico's economy stops growing.
Yet international investors have largely ignored the downturn, having written it off as a cyclical hiccup. Instead, they are looking decades in advance at Mexico's favorable long-term growth prospects.
Heartened by President Vicente Fox's promises to open the energy market and other leading sectors, and dismayed by the poor performances by Argentina and Brazil, investors have said Mexico is the emerging market to be in. So even though America's slowdown has hit Mexico hard, "it has not been bad enough to upset what is a very, very positive outlook for Mexico's economy," said Jorge Mariscal, chief investment strategist for Latin America at Goldman, Sachs.
In addition to direct foreign investment, Mexicans are also repatriating money they had invested outside the country in the years after the 1995 crisis. The central bank here reported that around $3 billion had been invested in mutual funds and money market accounts.
The flood of capital, in addition to upsetting the trade deficit, which now stands at $794 million, has been the main reason for the peso's strength.
Since the beginning of this year, the peso has risen about 7 percent against the dollar, making it one of the world's strongest currencies. Mexico's exporters, who sell in dollars but pay expenses in pesos, have been hit by shrinking profits and have called for a relaxation of Mexico's monetary policy. And the central bank finally listened.
Last Friday, and again on Tuesday, Guillermo Ortiz, governor of Mexico's central bank, reduced interest rates for the first time since 1998. Mr. Ortiz had been following a tight monetary policy to meet the nation's inflationary goals. Now, with inflation under control, and faced with the unexpected influx of capital, the bank is trying to decrease Mexico's attractiveness to foreign investors.
So far the policy has had little effect on the peso, which continues to stay strong against the dollar.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Show of Strength"The Mexican peso has risen against the dollar in recent months. Scale is inverted to show rising value of the peso. Graph shows figures for the Mexican peso for the last week.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) GORI, GRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (73%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



684 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Microsoft and Cisco Lead A Rally on the Nasdaq

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday after a Federal Reserve official said that the central bank's interest rate reductions should spur an economic rebound. Microsoft and Cisco Systems led the advance.
 Laurence H. Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor, said during a speech in Scotland that "quick and aggressive" rate cuts by policy makers will help the United States economy gradually return to annual growth of 3.5 percent to 4 percent. 
 "That gave a little bit of encouragement to the market -- the Fed talking up the possibility that we've turned the corner," said Peter Coolidge, a senior trader at Brean Murray & Company. The comments "made the difference in what is otherwise light trading to turn the market around."
The Nasdaq composite index gained 38.54 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,282.02. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.12 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,293.17. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 16.91 points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,122.42. 
Pfizer, Merck and other drug shares fell for a second day, keeping the gains of the Dow and the S.& P. smaller than the Nasdaq's, on concern that Democratic control of the Senate may result in lower profits for pharmaceutical companies.
Many investors are growing more confident that lower interest rates will incite a rebound in corporate profits and that stocks have had their lows after a slide that sent the Nasdaq down as much as 68 percent from its March 2000 record.
The Nasdaq index, a benchmark for computer-related and telecommunications shares, has surged 39 percent since touching a two-and-a-half-year low on April 4, while the S.& P. 500 has gained 17 percent in that time.
Microsoft rose $2.02, to $71.72; Cisco gained 55 cents, to $22.91; and Siebel Systems gained $3.17, to $54.12.
Slower-than-usual trading before the three-day Memorial Day weekend may also have contributed to the rally. About 1.1 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, 11 percent below the three-month daily average.
"When you have slow volume, most any move will be exaggerated," said Cummins Catherwood of Walnut Asset Management, which oversees $750 million in Philadelphia.
United States exchanges are closed Monday, and some investors may have refrained from making new commitments to stocks before the holiday.
Among aerospace stocks, General Dynamics shed $2.83, to $77.18; Boeing slipped 80 cents, to $65.20; and Lockheed Martin fell 15 cents, to $38.85.
Among oil and natural gas drillers, Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. slipped $1.83, to $52.99; and Noble Drilling declined $1.58, to $44.42.
Among drug stocks, Pfizer lost 63 cents, to $42.92; Merck lost $1.50, to $72.50; and American Home Products declined $1.43, to $61.05. --------------------

Treasuries Fall
By Reuters
Treasury bond prices fell sharply yesterday after comments from Laurence Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 20/32, to 96 15/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.47 percent from 5.39 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 22/32, to 93 18/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.83 percent from 5.78 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Chart shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since February.(Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ORACLE CORP (84%); PFIZER INC (83%); BREAN MURRAY CARRET & CO LLC (70%); TRANSOCEAN LTD (60%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (51%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); BOEING CO (51%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); RIGN (SWX) (60%); RIG (NYSE) (60%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GD (NYSE) (51%); LMT (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (70%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (60%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



685 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: The Illusion of a Grand Strategy 

BYLINE:  By James Der Derian; James Der Derian, a visiting scholar at Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study, is author of "Virtuous War: Mapping the Military-Industrial-Media-Entertainment Network."

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Today President Bush will deliver what has been billed as a major defense policy statement. Coming on the heels of a Pentagon "top-to-bottom" defense review -- the result of two dozen panels of experts meeting for several months behind closed doors -- his speech has been preceded by high expectations and not a small amount of controversy. Will he come to the Naval Academy armed with a revolutionary plan to transform the military, as his earlier statements have suggested? In the end, it may not matter. No plan, said Clausewitz, the Prussian strategist, survives the first battle; and the counterattacks have already begun.
 On Capitol Hill, military reform has the unpleasant ring of bases being closed and pet weapons projects getting axed. Largely excluded from the planning process, Congress is likely to put up a fight -- a prospect that Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has belatedly recognized this week in his trips to the Hill. 
 Fearing the loss of a division, carrier group or fighter program, each of the armed services has launched both public and private protests. In the defense industry, cracks will further widen between the heavy-metal advocates (those who favor tanks, ships and planes) and the electronica faction (who prefer precision munitions, remote sensors and robotics).
Public debates are already heating up over readiness to fight simultaneously one, one and a half, or two major regional conflicts. The power and vulnerability of aircraft carriers are being contrasted to the speed and cost of "streetfighter" ships, and the advantages of piloted aircraft against those of precision strike weapons and unmanned aerial vehicles.
Whatever the outcome, much of the credit, or blame, is likely to be laid at the doorstep of one man: Andrew Marshall. He was handpicked by Mr. Rumsfeld to guide the strategic review. Yet Mr. Marshall and his views remain enigmatic. Well-known if not adored by a tight circle of civilian and military strategists -- the so-called "church of St. Andrew" -- Mr. Marshall has been nearly invisible outside the defense establishment. A RAND Corporation nuclear expert beginning in 1949, he was brought by Henry Kissinger onto the National Security Council then appointed by President Nixon to direct the Pentagon's Office of Net Assessment.
He has been there ever since, despite efforts by some defense secretaries to get rid of him. His innocuous-sounding office comes with a big brief: to "assess" regional and global military balances and to determine long-term trends and threats.
Insiders say Mr. Marshall was behind some of the key strategic decisions of the Reagan years. His strategy for a protracted nuclear war -- based on weapons modernization, protection of governmental leaders from a first strike and an early version of Star Wars -- effectively beggared the Soviet war machine. He advocated providing Afghan resistance fighters with the highly effective Stinger missiles. He tagged AIDS as a national security issue.
Supporters call Mr. Marshall "iconoclastic" and "delphic"; his detractors prefer "paranoiac" or worse. No one has ever called him prolix. At a future-war seminar that he sponsored, Mr. Marshall mumbled a few introductory words and then sat in silence, eyebrows arched, arms folded, for the remaining two days. His only intervention came at the end. He suggested that when it came to the future, it would be better to err on the side of being unimaginative. After that experience, I better understood why he has been called the Pentagon's Yoda.
Five years ago, I sought him out because of his legendary seven-page memo, "Some Thoughts on Military Revolutions." First circulated in August 1993, it promoted the "revolution in military affairs," a new movement in military analysis, in which information technologies combined with innovative military doctrine transform the nature of war.
My interview with Mr. Marshall took place in his paper-strewn Pentagon office. With one eye on the primitive rocket that stood between our chairs, I asked him about his current concerns. Even then Mr. Marshall saw Asia looming on the horizon. But his gaze was also directed backward, to Europe between the world wars. He had teams analyzing the failure of Great Britain, the leading power of the day, to formulate effective strategies of defense and deterrence from new technologies like the tank, airplane and radio. Relying on past glories, antiquated doctrine and international institutions like the League of Nations, Britain missed the revolution in military affairs of its day. Germany did not, and subdued most of Europe by blitzkrieg.
The rest may be history, but not for Andrew Marshall. In a time of great transformations, the interwar period shows what might happen if a "peer competitor" gets the technological jump on a complacent United States. "The 20's," he told me, "turned out to be a period of illusion."
Andrew Marshall is unusual in that he may have the power to make his vision of our enemies -- whether illusionary or true -- into reality. However, the horse-trading, pork-barreling, balkanizing process called "defense policy making" has a way of chewing up grand visions, even when they are proclaimed by presidents.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lloyd Miller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); NAVIES (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MILITARY BASES (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (66%); ROBOTICS (65%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); DEFENSE CONTRACTS 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) DER DERIAN, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MARSHALL, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



686 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
A Lesson In Conserving For Redford

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
ROBERT REDFORD is disappointed with President Bush. The president's speech on energy last week "left me yearning for a straight story," Mr. Redford revealed on Wednesday's Op-Ed page, in an article outlining his thoughts on America's energy problems.
 The actor's ideas are ambitious, but they leave me yearning for an additional conservation measure that would benefit New York. The idea for it occurred to me at Mr. Redford's Sundance ski resort in Utah, while covering a symposium in 1989 on global warming. Called Greenhouse Glasnost, the meeting brought together Soviet and American scientists, politicians and celebrities, including Senator Bill Bradley, Tom Brokaw, Carl Sagan and Jane Pauley. 
 The event began with a group hike up the mountain to a clearing where Mr. Redford made a toast to "healing the planet." Then, after explaining that "Native Americans have a special understanding and relationship with the earth that we would all do well to learn," he introduced two Indian chiefs to perform a ritual. As they recited prayers and lamented "the white people's war on living things," they built a fire out of wood and sprinkled tobacco in it. 
It seemed a bit odd for a conference on cleansing the atmosphere to open with a ritualistic fire that wasted energy and spewed greenhouse gases mixed with the world's deadliest carcinogen. But then, the chiefs' profligacy was nothing compared with the audience's. We had come from all over the world in oil-burning airplanes and driven 50 miles in rented cars that spewed exhaust into the Rocky Mountain air. 
In retrospect, I see that the planet would have been healthier if we had all stayed home. (There was not a single tangible result of that conference.) But if we had to meet, we could have at least minimized the environmental damage by assembling in New York City, thereby eliminating or shortening most of the airplane and car trips. Instead of staying in cabins scattered throughout forestland, we would have crowded together in high-rise buildings that conserve open space and energy. 
I didn't make this suggestion at the conference because Mr. Redford already looked so pained by the planet's other problems. But now that he is advising everyone else of how to save energy, perhaps it's time to reconsider his habit of dragging people into the Rockies, most notably for the Sundance Film Festival. Why hold a festival for the movie industry in Utah?
It makes sense for a festival promoting independent films to be held outside Los Angeles, but why not go all the way to New York? The Sundance festival already attracts so many New York critics, actors and producers that the locals complain about an annual invasion of P.I.B.'s -- Persons in Black. Moving the festival here would spare them a trip, enrich our economy and save energy.
It wouldn't solve the nation's energy woes, but it would be less problematic than Mr. Redford's energy ideas. His Op-Ed article sounds suspiciously similar to the prescriptions at his conference in 1989. The environmentalists there predicted an end to energy shortages if the rest of America would just emulate the conservation and alternative-energy measures being practiced in their favorite state: California.
MR. REDFORD continues to stress conservation measures like fuel-efficiency standards for cars, which sound harmless until you look at the added cost (which can vastly exceed the savings in gasoline) and the increased risk of being killed in smaller, lighter vehicles. The fuel-efficiency standards mandated during the 1970's have been estimated to cause 2,000 to 4,000 deaths a year -- a cumulative toll higher than the number of American deaths in the Vietnam War, as noted by Jerry Ralph Curry, a former administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Highway safety seems less important to Mr. Redford than protecting the environment against oil companies. His article, "Bush vs. the American Landscape," warns that oil exploration would "destroy" America's "wild places." But oil production equipment takes up relatively little space for a short time. Even a catastrophic oil spill causes only temporary damage.
A ski resort, though, is a permanent blight on the environment. Mr. Redford has tried to be an ecologically sensitive developer at Sundance, but it won't be a "wild place" until he abandons it. Giving up his home and resort in the Rockies would restore a bit of wilderness and enable him to spend more time at the home he already owns in the most ecologically correct place in America: New York City. Once he abandons his own battle against the American landscape, we can join him in another toast to healing the planet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); FILM (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (83%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (83%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); SKIING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); CARCINOGENS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) TIERNEY, JOHN; REDFORD, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



687 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Rate Cuts Are Paying Off, Greenspan Says 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said tonight that the central bank's interest rate cuts this year are having their intended effect on the faltering economy, and he hinted that the most aggressive phase of the Fed's effort to ward off a recession might be over.
 Mr. Greenspan said that the economy was not out of danger and that additional rate cuts might be needed. But he added that the five half-point reductions so far this year in the Fed's benchmark interest rate ought to help strengthen the economy by later in the year. 
 "The period of subpar economic growth is not yet over, and we are not free of the risk that economic weakness will be greater than currently anticipated, requiring further policy response," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech to the Economic Club of New York. "But we also need to be aware that our front-loaded policy actions this year should be providing substantial support for a strengthening of economic activity later this year."
Analysts took his comments to mean that the Fed's next rate cut, assuming one is necessary, might be a quarter of a percentage point rather than the half-point that had become standard since the expansion began faltering late last year.
In what appeared to be a coordinated effort, Laurence H. Meyer, a Fed governor, delivered the same message. Page C6. 
Mr. Meyer, speaking at a conference in Scotland today, seemed to signal that the Fed thought that the bulk of its work might be done. He said that "growth should gradually recover" in response to the combination of interest rate reductions, the tax cut that Congress is about to send to President Bush and a likely decline in energy prices.
He said that while the Fed had to be "quick and aggressive" in responding to the slowdown, it also had to keep its eye on inflation, which by some measures has been creeping up.
"Given that labor markets remain tight, that inflation remains above the rate that I would find acceptable over the long run and that core inflation has been edging higher," Mr. Meyer said, "attention must also be given to calibrating the easing to avoid overshooting in the other direction in a way that ends up adding to price pressures as growth strengthens."
In his remarks, Mr. Greenspan was notably less concerned than Mr. Meyer about inflation, and in a sweeping review of economic conditions, the Fed chairman made clear that he still saw serious trouble spots that could derail any recovery. A text of Mr. Greenspan's speech was released by the Fed in Washington.
Mr. Greenspan also offered a broad defense of Fed policy over the last few years. He said the central bank was right to raise interest rates in 1999 and the first half of last year, that it could not have started cutting rates any earlier than it did as growth slowed late last year and that it would be fruitless for the Fed to try to anticipate and deflate stock market bubbles.
The Fed chairman said there were several signs that the interest rate cuts were rippling through the economy but had not yet had their full impact. In particular, Mr. Greenspan indicated that the Fed was waiting to see whether steadier or rising financial markets led to increased consumer confidence and spending.
"Owing to the variable and long lags of monetary policy," Mr. Greenspan said, "the effect of our recent policy initiatives will take time to strengthen financial portfolios and spill over into demand for goods and services."
In his assessment of the economy, Mr. Greenspan said companies in many industries, particularly automobiles, were well along in reducing their inventories of excess supplies and products to bring them into line with weaker demand. Inventories of technology-related items, he said, including computers, semiconductors and communications equipment had been slower to adjust.
But he said a falloff in capital spending by companies was "more problematic."
While some slowdown from very high rates of capital investment was to be expected, he said, the current weakness "appears to have gone beyond this adjustment, reflecting a deterioration in short-term profitability and cash flow."
So far, Mr. Greenspan said, consumer spending has not been unduly slow and continued wage gains should help support consumer purchases, which account for about two-thirds of economic activity. But he said that consumer confidence remained fragile and that the sharp fall in many stock prices over the last year would put downward pressure on spending.
But Mr. Greenspan suggested that he was relatively unconcerned that rising gasoline prices would inflict further harm on the economy. Market forces, he said "seem to be poised to contain further price increases at the pump."
He was generally sanguine about inflation, noting that the Consumer Price Index had been rising, but adding that there had been little change in the broader inflation gauge that he favors.
"In that regard," Mr. Greenspan said, "the lack of pricing power reported overwhelmingly by businesspeople underscores an absence of inflationary zest."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan foresees slow growth ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAX LAW (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; ECONOMIC CLUB OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); MEYER, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



688 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Senate Switch Alters Outlook For Businesses 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
The return of Senate control to the Democrats after more than six years will have a profound effect on a variety of business issues pending in Congress, slowing some deregulatory measures that had been moving through Capitol Hill and sharply rearranging the legislative agenda.
 With the rise of the Democrats, industry hopes have dimmed significantly for new legislation on everything from further deregulation in the banking, energy and telecommunications industries to changes in the nation's tort law system in ways favorable to big business. 
 Other industries will lose significant clout. Health care, for instance, will come under the purview of a committee led by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. Drug makers now face increasing likelihood that the Senate will investigate pricing practices with renewed vigor and adopt a patients' bill of rights measure that includes prescription benefits provisions opposed by the industry. 
"This is a city about power and what we have witnessed this week is a massive, massive power shift," said Kenneth Guenther, a top lobbyist with the Independent Community Bankers of America.
Traditional power centers in Washington, like organized labor and the government-sponsored enterprises (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac), will now have important political allies back in positions of leadership in the Senate after coming under heavy assault by the Republicans. 
Significant regulatory appointments will also come under greater scrutiny.
One nominee who is likely to face greater scrutiny, for instance, is Mary Sheila Gall, whom President Bush chose to head the Consumer Product Safety Commission. As a commissioner at the agency for the last decade, Ms. Gall had earned the widespread support of manufacturers and sharp criticism from consumer groups for voting against proposed safety rules and blaming negligent parents and consumers instead of faulty designs for injuries. Ms. Gall's nomination has come under attack by a number of public interest groups that have more influence with the Democrats.
Mr. Guenther and other lobbyists across a variety of industries said that if President Bush hoped to get much of his agenda through the divided Congress, he might now have to make far more legislative compromises.
One such area of potential compromise is bankruptcy. Competing bankruptcy measures sailed through the two Houses of Congress in March. Reconciling the measures has been a problem, though, because the 50-50 split in the Senate had created an irreconcilable debate over how to select a conference committee. With the issue of the even split now gone, it may be possible to move ahead and forge a measure in a conference committee, although some lobbyists say that the Democratic Senate may demand new provisions more favorable to debtors and consumers.
One of the Democrats who voted against the bill is Senator Paul S. Sarbanes of Maryland, a liberal who has long supported the requests of consumer groups and who now takes over the banking committee from one of the institution's most conservative Republicans, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. The focus of the committee is widely expected to shift away from deregulation to issues like curbing predatory lending, increasing the privacy protections of consumers, and beefing up the law that encourages banks to make loans to underserved communities. 
While a majority of the banking committee's members have favored greater guarantees of privacy for customers from financial institutions, Mr. Gramm -- an opponent of such measures -- has skillfully avoided votes on the issue. But now Mr. Sarbanes will set the agenda, and the issue is likely to arise should the committee attempt to tackle new legislation.
At the Commerce Committee, Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina would take over the chairmanship from Senator John McCain of Arizona. While the two have worked closely together, they differ significantly on many important policies. 
Most notably, Mr. Hollings is certain to play a far more aggressive oversight role over the Federal Communications Commission and make it more difficult for Michael K. Powell, the new chairman of that agency, to pursue his deregulatory agenda. Mr. Powell's biggest supporter in Congress has been Senator McCain.
Mr. Hollings has expressed deep skepticism about proposals endorsed in principle by Mr. Powell to loosen regulations on the nation's largest broadcasters to enable them to both grow bigger and acquire newspapers. 
He would also put a sharp brake to legislation proposed by the regional telephone companies. The legislation, which is moving through the House, would make it easier for the companies to enter the high-speed Internet business. 
Finally, Mr. Hollings has long been critical of efforts to change the nation's tort and product liability laws in ways that would raise new obstacles for consumers to bring such suits. President Bush has suggested such changes. 
The change in leadership will also make it significantly more difficult for President Bush to get his energy package through Congress. The new head of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee is expected to be Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, who has introduced a bill that would require regulators to impose price caps on electricity, a measure opposed by the administration.
Mr. Bingaman, while supporting the ability of the energy industry to increase exploration, has also come out against the administration's proposal to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil exploration. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, shown last November, is becoming chairman of the Banking Committee and is expected to shift the panel's focus to consumer protection from deregulation. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LOBBYING (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (84%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); TORTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NEGLIGENCE (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); PRODUCT PRICING (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (56%); LABOR UNIONS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKS AND BANKING; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CONSUMER PROTECTION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; LEGAL PROFESSION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (82%) CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); JOHN P SARBANES (78%); TED KENNEDY (73%); PHIL GRAMM (58%) ;KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); GALL, MARY SHEILA; SARBANES, PAUL S (SEN); LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001 



689 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: How to Define Poverty? Let Us Count the Ways 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The Census Bureau each fall goes through a ritual that is as Americana as the World Series. A press conference is convened, and senior officials, illustrating their numbers with colorful charts, disclose to the nation the latest income data. None gets more attention than the poverty level. A family of four that falls below $17,062 in annual income falls into poverty, the bureau declared last September.
 Federal aid programs indexed to the poverty line -- Head Start, food stamps and children's health insurance, among others -- are then doled out accordingly, which is a lot of power for a statistic that is out of touch with reality. 
 In public opinion polls, most Americans say that poverty begins north of an annual income of $20,000 for a family of four. Not even the Census Bureau believes its poverty numbers. Since 1995 the bureau has been developing a new measure, one pegged more closely to the actual cost of getting by. A progress report is due in July, but building the new income and expenditure procedures and testing them take time, Census Bureau officials say. A final proposal is not likely to reach the White House for approval in President Bush's current term. 
Not that he minds. His predecessor didn't. "Whenever the question of the poverty data came up informally," said Robert B. Reich, who was President Bill Clinton's first secretary of labor, "the consensus was not to change the standard for fear the poverty rate would look worse" -- although the present poverty figures, as Mr. Reich put it, "are almost meaningless."
Defining poverty is not easy. Even if the Census Bureau's new measure calculates necessary expenditures more accurately than the current formula, the new approach, like the current one, still uses income as the single criterion for judging who is poor. That leaves out neighborhoods, for instance. Is a ghetto family impoverished because of its crime-ridden surroundings and poor schools, although the family has enough income to rise above the official poverty threshold? And there is the issue of responsibility. Should the family of a hardworking full-time employee earning the minimum wage be blamed for poverty because the minimum no longer lifts the worker's income above the poverty level, as it did in the 1960's and early 70's?
"Poverty is really the lack of freedom to have or to do basic things that you value," said Amartya Sen, the Nobel laureate in economics. By that definition, a ghetto family that wants to move to an adequate neighborhood but cannot afford to do so or is prevented by discrimination from doing so is impoverished.
Or try this definition from Benjamin I. Page and James R. Simmons, political scientists at Northwestern University and the University of Wisconsin, Oshkosh, respectively, and the authors of "What Government Can Do." (University of Chicago Press): "A person deprived of things that everyone around him has is likely to suffer a sense of inadequacy, a loss of dignity and self-respect."
That brings state of mind into the mix, introducing all kinds of judgments that few people agree on. For all their concern about living standards, Americans have left the definition of poverty to politicians, who have defined it narrowly.
Income levels have been the only criterion since 1965, when President Lyndon B. Johnson adopted the present poverty formula. The latest figures show that 11.8 percent of the population lived in poverty in 1999, the lowest percentage in 20 years. The formula is not merely a statistical statement, however; it carries a particular viewpoint as well, about who is responsible for poverty -- government, society or the individual.
You neutralize poverty "by keeping the focus on the characteristics of poor people rather than on the economy, politics and society more broadly construed," writes Alice O'Connor, a historian at the University of California in Santa Barbara and the author of the recently published "Poverty Knowledge" (Princeton University Press).
For Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist, and William Julius Wilson, a sociologist at Harvard, ghetto neighborhoods reinforce poverty and contribute to it. But dismantling ghettos and integrating neighborhoods, a hugely complicated endeavor, has not been high on the agenda of any administration in 20 years. Nor has the minimum wage. Adjusted for inflation, it has declined from more than $6 an hour in the 1960's to $5.25 today.
"Rather than a single poverty measure, what you really want is to develop multiple measures of deprivation and look at them on a regular basis," said Rebecca Blank, dean of the University of Michigan's School of Public Policy. "For example, you might have a level of neighborhood crime that is some threshold level of acceptability, and then you determine how many people live in neighborhoods where the crime rate is above the acceptable level."
That is certainly not the current approach. The present system is based on a minimally nutritious food budget devised decades ago by the Department of Agriculture. The food budget is multiplied by three because back in the 1950's and 60's food was considered one-third of an average family's outlays.
Neither the food budget nor the multiplier have changed in all these years, although food is less than 20 percent of the average family budget today. Poverty thresholds have remained static, as a result, since 1965, except for the annual inflation adjustment, which the Census Bureau ceremoniously announces at the fall news conference. So every time household incomes have risen faster than inflation -- and thus faster than the Census Bureau's poverty level incomes -- the percentage of households in poverty has naturally fallen. That happened in the Johnson years and in the late 1990's, which helped President Bill Clinton.
Some poverty experts see virtue in the present system despite its faults. "There is a reason to have a dozen poverty lines, including the one we have, which tells us many things," said Douglas Besharov, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
"There is a political battle, a minor skirmish, going on here," he added, "with a number of people favoring the new measure because it would raise the count of poor and thus the need for more programs and more spending."
The Census Bureau's experimental measure, based on the six-year-old recommendations of a panel on poverty organized by the National Academy of Science, is likely to raise the poverty rate, many experts say. The reason is embedded in its structure.
The new measure relies on actual expenditures for food, clothing, shelter and utilities plus "a little bit more," as the Census Bureau puts it, for life's other necessities. The bureau would draw on the Labor Department's annual survey of consumer expenditures, not on an outdated, unchanging food budget.
"Basically we are asking the question, if we look back to last year, how many families were not able to purchase food, clothing, shelter, utilities and a little bit more -- that basic bundle," said Kathleen Short, a senior researcher at the Census Bureau. She is working on a way to adjust the new poverty measure also for regional differences in living costs, particularly for housing.
A special calculation would keep the initial poverty rate in line with the current one to avoid alarming politicians, but the new poverty rate would fluctuate more than the current one as expenditures rose and fell with the business cycle. It would probably average one or two percentage points above what the current formula produces, based on the Census Bureau's preliminary calculations.
"If consumer expenditures go up 10 percent," said Angus Deaton, a Princeton University economist, "then the poverty rate will drift up 5 percent, because food, shelter and clothing do not go up as fast as other expenditures."
That is all straightforward enough. Calculating income is not. The current system counts only cash wages before taxes and other cash payments as income. The new system would also count noncash benefits like food stamps. "The rationale is that because we are allowing for food stamps and so on, we are taking account of public policy," Ms. Short said. "Under the current system, you can distribute billions in noncash benefits and it does not count."
While those benefits would raise a family's official income, some expenses would be subtracted, lowering it. Taxes, child care, other work-related expenses and out-of-pocket medical outlays would all be excluded from income. But there are still gaps, say poverty researchers. For example, 40 million Americans do not have health insurance, not even Medicaid. With enough income, many of these people can rise above the official poverty threshold, although in Mr. Sen's view, they are not "free" to afford quality medical care.
While the Census Bureau struggles to give birth to a poverty formula more realistic than the present one, ad hoc poverty measures pop up frequently from academics, nonprofit organizations and regional development groups. Nearly all conclude that a family of four needs at least $25,000 a year to afford the basics, including a car to commute to work, an item overlooked in the Census Bureau's new measure. At least $25,000 is the income featured in the "basic needs" budget developed by Indiana's Economic Development Council, one goal being to draw jobs to the state that pay at least that much.
The United Way of Central Indiana now uses the basic needs budget as a guideline in awarding grants. The Urban League of Indianapolis just got $97,000 to develop a training program that will qualify black men for jobs paying at least $25,000.
"That is self-sufficiency," said David Weinschrott, a United Way director. "Poverty is all about stereotypes. Families with less than $25,000 fall below self-sufficiency."
Adam Smith would have agreed. There's more to poverty than lacking the bare necessities, he argued. "A linen shirt, for example, is, strictly speaking, not a necessary of life," Smith wrote in 1776. "The Greeks and Romans lived, I suppose, very comfortably though they had no linen. But in the present times, through the greater part of Europe, a creditable day laborer would be ashamed to appear in public without a linen shirt, the want of which would be supposed to denote that disgraceful degree of poverty which, it is presumed, nobody can well fall into without extreme bad conduct."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Should neighborhoods be taken into account? Even a family with an income above the poverty level feels poor in a crime-ridden area with bad schools. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B7); Sometimes you don't need a complicated formula to distinguish the haves from the have-nots. (Weegee/ICP and Getty Images)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); POVERTY RATES (90%); TRENDS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



690 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
The Twists of Love Never Quite Requited

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
The second installment of Marathon 2001, the Ensemble Studio Theater's annual series of one-act plays, presents a quartet of stories about skewed romantic liaisons, all of which share a degree of wicked delight in the follies of the heart.
 From Frank D. Gilroy's "Inspector Ohms," a competitive head game between a mystery writer and the star of the movies made from her books, to "Fifteen Notes" by Ruth Kirschner, in which a woman can barely veil her passion as she writes to her father's doctor, the strain of arch slyness that runs through the evening is so palpable that you can just about hear the four playwrights chuckling. None of the plays are satisfying meals, but even without a surpassing entry, the program is a solid evening of sketchery. 
 Ms. Kirschner's work is a monologue delivered by Ruth Green, a middle-aged woman sitting at a hotel room desk (and pacing around it), looking for just the right locution and tone to thank Dr. David Stein for his kindness to her father, who is dying in a New York hospital. Reading aloud from 15 incomplete and complete letters, betraying her frustration as she tries to decide whether to send one or write another, Ruth communicates just enough about her life -- she is 50, lives in San Francisco, has a child and an indifferent husband -- to make her shy fantasy come-on to Dr. Stein sadly hilarious. It's a simple piece, wisely understated, and performed with delicious comic pathos by Leslie Ayvazian.
"Inspector Ohms," the only entry that might fairly be called a play, is a compact short story about the fencing between a hack actor (David Rasche), who has become famous on screen as the titular detective, and the hack novelist (Kristin Griffith) who created the character. At issue is the rumor that the novelist has decided, at last, to kill off the good inspector, and the actor, in spite of their longstanding enmity, has paid her a visit to beg for a reprieve. It turns out that their mutual disaffection is a mask for the opposite. Or maybe it isn't. The two play out a game that involves sex and love and art and ambition and leaves one of them smug and the other vexed.
As literature, it's more Lieutenant Columbo than Edgar Allan Poe; in the interest of economy, the dialogue is largely expositional and the moment-to-moment motivations of the characters are, for the sake of the plot, often transparently manipulated by the playwright. But it's all done for the sake of good fun; Mr. Gilroy seems to be writing with tongue ever so gently in cheek, and the show is directed that way by Chris Smith. The highly professional performers deliver even the clankiest of lines with the conviction of veteran salesmen.
The funniest of the program's pieces is the brief finale, "Pandora" by Susan Kim, a skit in which an estranged suburban husband makes a pitch to his wife for reconciliation after she has just been proposed to by another man. The casting of the pair is a bit mismatched; Marc Romeo is a bit too preppie-ish for Danny, whose tough-talking wife in skin-tight pants, Maureen, is played to martinetlike pitch by Clea Lewis. But both are appealing, and their predicament is poignant if familiar. The idiosyncrasy is in the setting and the situation: a rest stop on the Palisades Parkway in northern New Jersey, where the pair have met to help their 6-year-old daughter bury her cat. But the girl, Ollie (played by a child actor, Ramya Pratt, whose tantrums alone are worth the price of admission), hilariously refuses to relinquish the shoe-box casket. The simultaneity of it all is as painful and relieving as ice on a burn, and the sketch's fantastical conclusion is a great, relaxing giggle.
The evening begins with an uneven piece by Laurence Klavan called "The Summer Sublet." It has some wry observations about the game of chance involved in New York's rental apartment market, and the play's love affair between a young college grad (Ebon Moss-Bachrach) and the savvy super (Elizabeth Hanly Rice), who lives in the apartment below him, is a quirky variation on the "younger man, older woman" model. And it's nicely performed. The plot, however, hinging on whether or not the super's husband is in the mob, does the play in before the concluding violence does the same to a likable character.

MARATHON 2001
Series B

The 24th annual festival of new one-act plays. Associate producer, Sarah Elkashef; marathon literary manager, Tom Rowan; production manager, Timothy L. Gallagher; technical director, Carlo Adinolfi; production stage manager, James Carringer; lighting by Greg MacPherson; sets by Charles Kirby; costumes by Amela Baksic; sound by Robert Gould; props master, Laura Raynor. Presented by the Ensemble Studio Theater, Curt Dempster, artistic director; Jamie Richards, executive producer; Eliza Beckwith, managing director. At 549 West 52nd Street, second floor, Clinton.

SUMMER SUBLET, by Laurence Klavan; directed by Keith Reddin.
WITH: Elizabeth Hanly Rice (Bernice), Ebon Moss-Bachrach (Lloyd) and Greg Stuhr (Frank).

FIFTEEN NOTES, by Ruth Kirschner; directed by Curt Dempster.
WITH: Leslie Ayvazian (Ruth Green).

INSPECTOR OHMS, by Frank D. Gilroy; directed by Chris Smith.
WITH: Kristin Griffith (Armina) and David Rasche (Val).

PANDORA, by Susan Kim; directed by Mark Roberts.

WITH: Clea Lewis (Maureen), Marc Romeo (Denny), Ramya Pratt (Ollie) and Griffith Maloney (Angel).

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Rasche plays an actor in movies made from the novels of Kristen Griffith's character in "Inspector Ohms." And she may be about to kill off his character. (Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Ollie, played by Ramya Pratt, left, refuses to relinquish her dead cat. Clea Lewis is her mother, who is in the middle of a reconciliation conversation with her husband. (Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FILM (78%); THEATER (58%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (56%) THEATER; REVIEWS; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: ENSEMBLE STUDIO THEATER 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; KLAVAN, LAURENCE; KIRSCHNER, RUTH; KIM, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) ; GILROY, FRANK D

TITLE: MARATHON 2001 (THEATER FESTIVAL); SUMMER SUBLET (PLAY); FIFTEEN NOTES (PLAY); INSPECTOR OHMS (PLAY); PANDORA (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



691 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew Less Than 2% for 2 Quarters 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
For the first time since 1995, the economy grew by less than 2 percent for two consecutive quarters, the government reported yesterday.
 Growth in the first three months of the year was more lackluster than the government had initially estimated as businesses cut deeply into inventories and imports exceeded exports by a larger margin than the government had expected. Consumer spending slowed moderately. 
 The gross domestic product, a measure of the output of goods and services, rose at an annual pace of 1.3 percent in the first quarter, slower than an early estimate of 2 percent but up from the pace of 1 percent in the previous quarter, the Commerce Department reported.
Though the reduction of inventories seemed to bode well for an eventual economic recovery when companies begin to restock, details of the government's report and some other new economic data showed that the second quarter was off to a sluggish start, economists said.
Business reduced inventories by $18.9 billion in the first quarter, after a $55.7 billion increase in the fourth quarter of last year. The initial estimate included an inventory reduction of only $7.1 billion.
"It was a very sharp drawdown that should pave the way for a better recovery down the road," said Kathleen Stephansen, director of economic research for Credit Suisse First Boston. Still, she said, technology businesses have excess inventories and "business investment is weak and will probably remain weak."
The sharp inventory reduction was "in itself, not a bad development for the economy," said Jade Zelnick, chief economist at Greenwich Capital Markets. "But it does not change the fact that other data suggest that the inventory reduction was not complete at the end of the quarter."
Business spending fell 13.3 percent, exceeding initial projections of a drop of 11.5 percent. That decline is considerably greater than the 4.1 percent drop in the previous quarter, which was the first time business spending had slowed since the second quarter of 1998. Spending on equipment and software fell 2.6 percent, exceeding the original estimate of 2.1 percent, but the decline was not quite as steep as the fall of 3.3 percent in the previous quarter.
Consumer spending grew 2.9 percent, slower than the 3.1 percent initially estimated but better than the 2.8 percent growth in the fourth quarter. Consumer spending seemed to lose strength as the quarter progressed and as the new quarter began in April, economists said, citing increasingly dismal reports from retailers and rising gasoline prices.
Consumers' attitudes about the economy were upbeat, however. The University of Michigan said its final consumer sentiment index for May rose to 92.0 from 88.4 in April, down only slightly from a preliminary reading of 92.6. The index had been falling sharply since late 2000 as corporations cut jobs.
Factory orders for durable goods, like refrigerators, washing machines and cars, fell by $9.8 billion, or 5 percent, in April, the Commerce Department said in a separate report yesterday. Orders had risen for three months, including a 2.2 percent increase in March. Excluding transportation, orders fell 3.3 percent.
New evidence of sluggish spending also appeared from corners of the economy somewhat removed from the decline in business inventories, which the Federal Reserve is watching closely as it tries to revive the economy. Sales of existing homes fell 4.2 percent in April, according to the National Association of Realtors.
"Based on all these uncertainties, we can probably surmise that G.D.P. did not accelerate much in the second quarter," Ms. Zelnick said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. 1st Qtr. RevisedTo: +1.3%From: +2.0 1996- 2001(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeApril: -5.0%March: +2.2Feb.: +3.9 November 1999- April 2001(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); INVENTORIES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAILERS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



692 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 758 words

PERSON: Walter Eytan 

HEADLINE: Walter Eytan, 90, Dies; Founded Israel's Foreign Service 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Walter Eytan, an early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign service to meet the needs of a new state suddenly at war with its neighbors, died on May 23 in a hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90.
 As first director general of the Foreign Ministry, from 1948 to 1959, Mr. Eytan faced the challenge of creating a diplomatic service that would help Israel gather international support, counter the effects of the Arab trade embargo and encourage immigration. 
 In "The First 10 Years"(Simon & Schuster, 1958), his account of that era, Mr. Eytan said Israel was forced to "look for friends in every part of the world," seek economic ties "outside the Middle East wherever possible" and be ready to undertake "political activity in every capital" in a period when the United Nations was closely involved with its affairs.
At independence on May 14, 1948, a three-member ministry started firing off telegrams to every country in the world asking them to recognize Israel. The United States, Guatemala and the Soviet Union were the first to do so.
Although Mr. Eytan's top priority was sending diplomats to Washington, London, Paris and Moscow, he also moved quickly to open diplomatic offices in cities like Aden, Algiers, Prague, Shanghai and Tehran to help immigration to Israel, as well as in Bombay, Rio de Janeiro and Rome to win political support and develop trade relations.
Mr. Eytan had initially envisioned a lean and nonhierarchical operation to be represented just by ministers and legations rather than ambassadors and embassies. But that plan was scrapped when the United States unexpectedly gave embassy status to its own mission to Israel at a time when America maintained envoys below ambassador status in several Arab capitals. 
From 1960 to 1970, Mr. Eytan was ambassador to France, where in 1967 he was involved in a diplomatic storm after President Charles de Gaulle, at a news conference, denounced Israel for starting the Arab-Israel War and described Jews as "an elite people, domineering and self-assured."
On June 5, 1967, Mr. Eytan called on de Gaulle to tell him that Israel had just launched a pre-emptive strike to annihilate the Egyptian Air Force.
The president's intelligence chief, Jacques Foccart, who was waiting outside, was "surprised to hear raised voices" coming from their meeting, according to a de Gaulle biographer, Jean Lacouture.
"They've just launched a colonial war," de Gaulle reportedly told Mr. Foccart a few minutes after Mr. Eytan had left. "They'll win it very quickly. But they won't settle anything that way." 
De Gaulle's subsequent controversial description of Jews -- his exact words were "un peuple d'elite, sur de lui-meme et dominateur" -- led to accusations of anti-Semitism.
Le Monde published a cartoon that showed a skeletal Jewish inmate of a concentration with the caption, "Sur de Lui-Meme et Dominateur?" The Chief Rabbi of France, Jacob Kaplan, said de Gaulle was "giving the highest possible sanction to a campaign of discrimination."
French relations with Israel, which had been close, especially in the military sphere, were never the same again. Nevertheless, Mr. Eytan was able to repair some of the damage later that year, when France published an exchange of letters between de Gaulle and the Israeli leader, David Ben-Gurion.
While calling the president's remarks wounding, Ben-Gurion also "deplored the unjustified criticism" by those who "have not examined your observations with all the attention needed." De Gaulle said he was merely describing "the quality thanks to which this strong people was able to survive and remain itself after 19 centuries passed under unheard of conditions."
Walter Eytan was born on July 27, 1910, in Munich. His family moved to England, where he was educated at St. Paul's School in London and Queen's College at Oxford. He was a lecturer in medieval and modern German at the university from 1934 to 1936. In World War II, Mr. Eytan worked at Bletchley Park on the project that broke the Germans' Enigma code.
He married Beatrice Levinson, who survives, along with two sons, David, of Tel Aviv, and Jonathan, of Jerusalem, and a daughter, Ruth Yehoshua, also of Tel Aviv.
In 1946, Mr. Eytan immigrated to Israel, where he ran a school for diplomats before moving to the Foreign Ministry. He led the Israeli delegation to the peace talks with Egypt on Rhodes after the first Arab-Israeli War, in 1948. From 1970 to 1972, he was an adviser to Foreign Minister Abba Eban and, from 1972 to 1978, was chairman of the Israeli Broadcasting Authority.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Eytan in 1970. (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); AIR FORCES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

EYTAN, WALTER; LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) ISRAEL

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



693 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: It's Time to Pass the Torch, Powell Tells Zimbabwe's President 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, May 25 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell today called on President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe to "submit to the law and the will of the people" in a fair and free presidential election next year instead of clinging to power.
 In a speech assessing the state of Africa, General Powell praised presidents in countries like Mali, Senegal and Ghana who have stepped aside or have agreed to do so in favor of a new generation of leaders. 
 But in his address to students at the University of Witwatersrand here, he characterized Mr. Mugabe, who has drawn international criticism for a land-seizure program and a tottering economy, as a throwback to the days of African strongmen. 
Mr. Mugabe has led Zimbabwe for more than two decades, first as prime minister and, since December 1987, as president.
"I hope we can put the right kind of political pressure on him so that he will yield to the desire of the people to have a free and fair election," General Powell said, "and that he will bring war veterans under control so they stop terrorizing the communities in Zimbabwe, and that he will take action to deal with land issues and all the other issues in a democratic process, not through totalitarian methods."
At least 34 people died in the period leading up to last June's parliamentary elections, while thousands more were beaten, raped, kidnapped or otherwise intimidated in a campaign of violence. That has included the occupation of white-owned farms by pro-government militants led by veterans of Zimbabwe's war for rule by its black majority.
General Powell's remarks drew a stern response from the government in Zimbabwe. 
"The Americans must not try to impose leaders on us," said Didymus Mutasa, foreign affairs secretary for the governing Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front. "They must leave us alone and mind their own business. The issue of who leads Zimbabwe is an issue for Zimbabweans alone."
But General Powell said South Africa would ultimately suffer from instability he attributed to Mr. Mugabe, 77.
"It is liable to become a problem for South Africa if the situation gets so bad in Zimbabwe that they start to come across into South Africa," the secretary of state said. "That is why we are pressing for a more responsible set of political acts on the part of Mr. Mugabe in order to avoid the kind of crisis that is slowly building."
Earlier today, General Powell heard emotional pleas for help from a roomful of people affected by AIDS as he toured a clinic that is trying to control the explosion of the disease in the sprawling and struggling township of Soweto.
One by one, people who had lost relatives to the disease and were now facing looming death themselves described how H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS was ravaging their communities, fueled by a lethal mix of myth, ignorance, carelessness and official neglect. So high is the infection rate here that during the course of General Powell's day, officials said another 1,700 people across South Africa had died of AIDS.
"You're an African," Prudence Mabele told the secretary, describing a grim life of discrimination and rejection for those like her who carry the virus. "As an African, you must see to it that Africa's issues are taken into consideration. We are facing a form of AIDS apartheid where as a young woman you cannot build a future."
With his wife, Alma, at his side, General Powell, sang and danced with the patients and their family members and consoled them with pledges of continued assistance from the American government. 
He said the Bush administration's recent announcement of a $200 million global trust fund to combat AIDS and other diseases would not be the end of America's commitment. But he offered no new dollars today and characterized the problem as a complicated one that United States money by itself would not solve.
"It is a health care problem, but it is also a problem of poverty," he said. "It is a problem of the environment. It is a problem of family and culture. It requires engagement by the government."
But AIDS was not the only problem that General Powell focused on here. In the university speech, he outlined his dream of a continent free of the kind of regional conflicts tearing at places like Congo, Sierra Leone and Sudan. "America will be a friend to all Africans who seek peace," he said. "But we cannot make peace among Africans. Africans themselves must bear the lion's share of the responsibility for bringing stability to the continent."
The university where General Powell spoke was the site of numerous protests against the apartheid regime. It continued that tradition for activism today as students booed General Powell for an array of American foreign policy actions from the bombing of Iraq during the Persian Gulf war to military support for Israel to the policy of "constructive engagement" toward South Africa during the days of apartheid.
Students blocked his motorcade for about an hour, prompting heavily armed police officers to move in and clear the way.
But at most stops the welcome was warm.
At the AIDS clinic, General Powell posed for photographs with two small children infected with H.I.V. -- a conscious effort to counter the widespread practice in South Africa of shunning people infected with the virus or those with AIDS, even those related by blood.
"I know you've come to show us the light," said Florence Ngobeni, who carries the virus and recently lost a child to AIDS. "You come to show us that even though you've brought nothing, as the media say, you brought more than what other people in this country are doing."
General Powell, who continues his Africa trip with a stop in Kenya on Saturday, described AIDS as a tragedy with many ripple effects. "It is an economic crisis, a social crisis, a crisis for democracy, a threat to stability, a threat to the very future of Africa, because it is decimating the very people who build that more prosperous democratic, peaceful future," he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 26 about the visit of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to South Africa, and his meetings there with AIDS patients, misstated the nature of Washington's recent $200 million contribution to efforts to fight AIDS and other diseases worldwide. The Bush administration recently said it would contribute that sum to a United Nations fund; it has not set up its own global trust fund to fight infectious diseases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); VETERANS (72%); AIDS & HIV (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); VIRUSES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); MUTASA, DIDYMUS 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); SENEGAL (92%); MALI (92%); AFRICA (92%); GHANA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) ZIMBABWE; SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



694 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: A Retreat on Tax Havens 

 BODY:
From Antigua in the Caribbean to Nauru in the South Pacific, offshore tax havens leach billions of dollars every year in tax revenues from countries around the world. Unfortunately, the Bush administration is backing away from a three-year effort by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to crack down on tax havens. The administration's decision to withdraw American support for essential elements of the effort undermines what had been a successful international campaign. 
 The Internal Revenue Service estimates that Caribbean tax havens alone drain away at least $70 billion a year in personal income tax revenue. The O.E.C.D. suspects the total worldwide to be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. The International Monetary Fund concluded in 1999 that offshore banking had played a sometimes "catalytic" role in Asian, Russian and Latin American financial crises by hiding losses in ways that regulators and auditors were unable to penetrate. The secrecy and lax regulatory environments that characterize many offshore tax havens also invite money-laundering. 
 The O.E.C.D. has sought greater transparency in tax and banking practices, better cooperation with law enforcement and tax authorities and an end to special tax breaks for foreign investors. Last June the O.E.C.D. published a blacklist of more than 30 offshore tax havens. Nine of them promptly agreed to the organization's requests. Others, including Antigua and Nauru, have resisted. 
In withdrawing Washington's support for the O.E.C.D.'s effort to eliminate the tax breaks that lure foreign capital, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill has bowed to a lobbying campaign by anti-tax activists who have wrongly claimed that the O.E.C.D. wants to impose some sort of global regime of high taxes. But the practices the O.E.C.D. opposes are not competitive tax policies designed to benefit businesses in the countries where they apply. On the contrary, the most notorious tax havens do not even extend their minimal tax rates to their own citizens or domestic enterprises. Their primary aim is to encourage and profit from individuals and businesses seeking to evade taxes in their own countries.
Mr. O'Neill asserted that the United States did not want to participate in efforts to "harmonize world tax systems." But there is no harm in governments cooperating to prevent illegal activity by their citizens, including tax fraud. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TAX FRAUD (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ACCOUNTING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; TAX EVASION; FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%) ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (93%); NAURU (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



695 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS: The New Melting Pot; 
With an Asian Influx, a Suburb Finds Itself Transformed

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: FREMONT, Calif. 

 BODY:
It is hard to pin down the elusive tipping point when the old Fremont gave way to the new one.
 Maybe it was when Hillside Drive was renamed Gurdwara Road, for the Gurdwara Sahib Temple, which Sikh residents built there. Mayor Gus Morrison recalled the discussion: "At a public meeting, someone got up and said, 'I can't pronounce Gurdwara.' Then a Sikh stands up and says, 'I can't pronounce Paseo Padre,' " referring to a major thoroughfare. 
 Or perhaps it was during the spate of burglaries of upper-end Asian homes when the city, on the advice of a Chinese-American citizens' group, placed advertisements in local Asian newspapers suggesting that families leave shoes on the porch when going out. 
"We finally figured out the crooks knew if they didn't see shoes on the front porch, no one was home," said Chief Craig Steckler of the Police Department.
Whenever it was, there is little doubt that over the last 10 years, a blue-collar, lily-white, somewhat anonymous bedroom community, once best known for churning out Chevys and Toyotas, has essentially disappeared. In its place has arisen something dazzlingly different: a magnet for immigrants.
The city is a vivid example of a shift in the landscape as Asian immigrants, particularly new arrivals with professional degrees and entrepreneurial ambitions, forsake urban enclaves and move to the suburbs in such numbers that they transform them. 
The new Fremonters include Silicon Valley engineers, entrepreneurs of every persuasion -- from Sikhs owning 7-Eleven stores to Chinese chief executives living in Mediterranean palazzos -- as well as Fijian Indians, Filipinos and one of the country's largest concentrations of Afghan refugees. The latest census figures disclose that the Asian population doubled since 1990 in this city of 206,000 people, to 37 percent from 19 percent. 
And as change has come to Fremont, where orchards and cauliflower fields have been replaced by boulevards and 5,000-square-foot homes, an intense learning curve has followed, one likely to be replicated in many corners of America.
Nationally, the percentage of growth of the Asian population was 58 percent from 1990 to 2000, and Asians now account for 4 percent of the population. Among cities of more than 100,000 people, Fremont is one of five with the highest percentage of Asian residents.
The city, incorporated in 1956 from five towns, is trying to adapt to the multitude of cultures in its midst, people with widely differing circumstances, customs and worldviews. 
At the elite Mission San Jose High School, whose students are 61 percent Asian, and where the senior class has 17 students tied for valedictorian, signs for the school election -- "Amanda Chan for Class Treasurer," "Sadaf Gowani for Secretary" -- reflect the transformed city.
So did last summer's Fourth of July parade, when a Sikh float decorated with a model of the Golden Temple in India took its place alongside those of the Furry Friends animal rescue group and the All Stars Cheerleading Squad.
But it has not gone off without a hitch. Two years ago, three white teenagers sprayed swastikas and white-pride slogans on a synagogue and a high school. Last year, county school officials rejected a move by some parents in the affluent Mission Peak neighborhood to create their own school district, which would have been over 60 percent Asian, partly because it would have created "an enclave of privilege." 
Like much of the Bay Area, Fremont, where the mean household income has risen to $93,000 from $71,000 a decade ago, is short on moderately priced housing. The average rent for a one-bedroom apartment is $1,400. This has profoundly affected Fremont's 20,000 Afghan refugees, among them an increasing number of professional women who have fled the country's ruling Taliban and relocated here through a United Nations program. 
In one of many new rituals here, Afghan women meet at a community center on Wednesdays, after exercise class in their high heels and chador, or head-to-toe cloaks, and support one another over chapli kebab and coffee cake.
The city's newness and lack of physical cohesiveness -- there is no downtown -- may have served it well. 
"There weren't that many old places to undo, and there's been a dedication to fitting everybody in," said John Landis, a professor of city and regional planning at the University of California. "Fremont is not afraid of growth and not afraid of change. That makes it unusual in California."
The complex dance of cultures has changed here in hundreds of tiny ways. On a typical morning, Sikhs recite the morning prayers, or nitnem, on a live radio broadcast from the temple, while a few miles away, Thai Buddhist monks in saffron robes chant in another new temple.
But tensions percolate amid resplendent architecture. Every year, at the "Festival of India," which has become a mainstream event in the city, Sikhs demonstrate for Khalistan, an independent nation they hope to carve out of India's Punjab State. 
Another highly emotional issue flared up in Fremont schools over kirpans, the sacred ceremonial swords signifying baptism, which are worn by Sikhs from childhood on. When some parents challenged a school district policy permitting the wearing of kirpans under certain conditions, Sikhs and the Fremont police worked out an agreement. Now they can be worn on a chain if concealed beneath an outer garment and wired into a scabbard. The blade must be blunted and be no longer than three and a half inches.
"It's a compromise we're doing for now," said Jagmeet Kaur, who is active in the Sikh community. "But it's not acceptable, really."
Chief Steckler finds himself embroiled in issues he never imagined. 
Three years ago, the department broke up a melee in a parking lot after representatives of the Taliban spoke at a local mosque.
The police have also worked with the local Afghan Coalition and Afghan Women's Association to educate newcomers on child abuse, spousal abuse and other family and social issues. 
Corporal punishment of children, widely accepted in Afghanistan, "can be a violation of law in California," Chief Steckler said. The city has sponsored community meetings about where corporal punishment ends and child abuse begins.
Many old-time Fremonters speak of how their lives have been broadened by the town's transformation. Yet some find it bewildering.
"You get to learn a lot about different nations," said Lindsey Johnson, a freshman at Mission San Jose High School. "But then it gets frustrating when you're in the minority. My best friend and I are blonde, light-eyed and in honors' classes.
"When we walk into the room you can tell from the body language they're thinking, 'Why are you in this class?' " 
John Sullivan, who was recently laid off from his job at a biomedical company, reflected on his city of 40 years, saying: 
"A lot has been gained. But when jobs are displaced and people see immigrants living in the hills and young people leaving because they can't afford to live here, it has to cause resentment. It's human nature."
Fremont, where more than 1,200 new high-tech businesses flourished over the past decade, has been buffeted by the recent economic downturns. Some start-ups have shut down; others have laid off workers. The layoffs are affecting skilled engineers and programmers from India and elsewhere who flocked here on work visas, an unknown number of whom are leaving the Bay Area or returning home. 
Politics have yet to mirror the changed city. The five-member City Council has one Chinese-American. 
"Very rarely do immigrant populations get integrated into the political system," said Richard Orsi, a history professor at California State University in nearby Hayward. "In Fremont, many of them are accomplished professionals leading busy lives. But it will come."
Jagmeet Kaur has lived in England and Canada but says she feels most at home in Fremont. "I see history," she said, standing outside the Gurdwara Sahib Temple. "I see my culture. It's all here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The face of Fremont, Calif., is changing, as are some exercise classes, like this one with Afghan women. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Buddhist monks at a service in their temple in Fremont, Calif.; Sikhs attended a recent service at the Gurdwara Sahib Temple in Fremont, Calif., a magnet for immigrants. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A10) Map of California highlighting Fremont: Fremont's Asian population has doubled, to 37 percent, since 1990. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); CENSUS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); REFUGEES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%) POPULATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CENSUS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%)

PERSON: BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%) FREMONT (CALIF); AFGHANISTAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



696 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: How Best to Honor the World War II Generation? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Stephen E. Ambrose urges immediate building of the World War II memorial (Op-Ed, May 19). 
This country already has a lasting memorial to those veterans: the G.I. Bill, which made it possible for the men and women who returned from that war to gain an advanced education, to buy homes, to contribute to the economic growth of the country and to help rebuild the world. We need no other monuments. 
 Wouldn't it be more meaningful to now provide scholarships to the descendants of the veterans we wish to honor?

MAURICE DEUL
Pittsburgh, May 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (84%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) WORLD WAR II (1939-45); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; NATIONAL MALL (WASHINGTON, DC); VETERANS 

PERSON: DEUL, MAURICE; AMBROSE, STEPHEN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



697 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Hong Kong: Growth Slows 

BYLINE:  By Mark Landler (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Hong Kong's economy felt the effects of the global economic slowdown in the first quarter of 2001, growing 2.5 percent, compared with 14.1 percent in the quarter last year. 
A government economist, K. Y. Tang, attributed the weak performance to lower exports to the United States and Europe. He warned that the territory could be further buffeted by the falling Japanese yen and other Asian currencies. Mark Landler (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (85%); CURRENCIES (82%); JAPANESE YEN (82%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



698 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing United Nations: U.S. Offers Iraq Sanction List 

BYLINE:  By Barbara Crossette (NYT) 

 BODY:
 American officials have given the other 14 Security Council members a list of imports that should come under surveillance as the Council moves to debate lifting restrictions on sales of civilian goods to Iraq. In addition to standard international lists of prohibited weapons, the United States has devised a list of civilian items that could have military uses, like high-powered computers and transport vehicles able to carry equipment like tanks. American officials expect the lists to be debated next week.
 Barbara Crossette (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (54%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



699 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Seeks Balance to State's Democratic Tilt 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
He is a popular incumbent and a shrewd strategist, a prodigious fund-raiser and a moderate whose appeal crosses regional and ideological bounds.
 But as Gov. George E. Pataki looks toward a probable bid for a third term next year, the path to re-election is pocked with hazards. A Republican, he reigns over a state that leans heavily Democratic and that gave Al Gore a 25 percent margin last year, and he is likely to face a well-known, well-financed opponent. The rollicking economy has stalled, and critics are warning that an electric power shortage may be just over the horizon. 
 This shapes up as a very tough race for Mr. Pataki, his advisers and other political strategists agree. Public opinion polls have said as much, showing that while the governor enjoys high approval ratings, he leads either of his potential Democratic challengers, State Comptroller H. Carl McCall and Andrew M. Cuomo, the former United States housing secretary, by about 10 points -- not the kind of commanding lead incumbents usually enjoy a year and a half before the election, nor the 30-point lead he had the last time around. 
A hard-fought primary could hurt the eventual Democratic nominee, but the early start of the campaigns by two heavyweight Democratic contenders means that New Yorkers are in for 18 months of noisy Pataki-bashing.
Mr. Pataki is already ardently courting minority voters and organized labor, hoping to make inroads into those historically Democratic blocs. He has strengthened his identification with causes like gun control, abortion rights and environmental protection that are very popular in New York. 
"In this state, you begin as a Republican by being a million votes down," said Representative John E. Sweeney, a former deputy chief of staff to Mr. Pataki who remains one of his closest allies. "This one is not going to be easy. But the governor has an advantage that he's a known commodity with a strong record of accomplishment. And don't forget, he's good at this."
The governor has made a career out of being underestimated. Behind his smiling, regular-guy demeanor is a fierce, smart competitor who has never lost an election and has won every office he ever held by toppling an incumbent. He raised a formidable $20 million for his 1998 re-election campaign, $6 million more than the amount spent during his 1994 campaign. He is almost certain not only to surpass that figure this time, but to raise substantially more than any challenger.
He declined to be interviewed for this article, but his advisers say he sees the challenge ahead as clearly as anyone. He has been appearing around the state, announcing grants and attending groundbreakings, at nearly a campaign-style pace, and raising money at events from Puerto Rico to California.
The biggest question is which Democrat he will face. Nearly all analysts say it is too early to tell who would make the tougher opponent, but it is something the governor's strategists are already thinking about, considering ways they might tilt the Democratic field in favor of one candidate or the other.
"People who make guesses at this point about who he'd rather face are doing just that, guessing," one Pataki adviser said. "I change my mind at least once a week."
The Pataki camp -- like nearly everyone else in state politics -- sees Mr. Cuomo as a more driven, sharp-elbowed competitor than Mr. McCall, but they say that by the same token, he risks seeming humorless, even mean. Because of his father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, Mr. Cuomo has enviable name recognition that could help him with Democratic voters, but Mr. Pataki's team is confident that it would be a drawback with independents and Republicans. Mr. McCall is widely liked, but some Republicans and Democrats question whether he has the intensity for a full-scale campaign.
Some Republican strategists would rather see Mr. Cuomo win the primary, calculating that in defeating Mr. McCall, who is black, Mr. Cuomo would alienate black voters, a core Democratic group. Others discount the advantage in that.
"Whoever wins the Democratic primary, the best thing for the governor would be for that primary to remain contested and close right up to the end, so that the other guy is likely to emerge bruised, and maybe even short on money," said a Pataki adviser.
Whoever his opponent is, the governor will be in a race unlike any he has faced before. In 1994, he was a little-known state senator, running against Mr. Cuomo the elder, in an election that was a referendum on an increasingly unpopular incumbent. In 1998, the strongest potential challengers declined to take on Mr. Pataki, and he faced the weakest Democratic gubernatorial candidate in decades, Peter F. Vallone, the New York City Council speaker. The outcome was never in doubt.
With a strong Democrat, the race next year is likely to be largely about Mr. Pataki -- his record, his promises, his ethics and his friends. 
On one of those fronts, Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo are already busy reminding audiences of the governor's links to President Bush, who is deeply unpopular in New York, a state where he won just 35 percent of the vote. The governor has already distanced himself on several issues, like rules on carbon dioxide emissions at power plants, from the man he campaigned for and called his friend, his aides drawing reporters' attention to the effort each time.
People close to the governor talk, as Republican strategists have for decades, of winning over minority voters, particularly Hispanics, who, they contend, are essentially conservative.
"One of the priorities we have is outreach to groups that aren't traditionally aligned with Republicans -- Hispanics and Asians and African-Americans and the gay community," said Alexander F. Treadwell, chairman of the Republican State Committee and a friend of Mr. Pataki's. Mr. Pataki took 25 percent of the Hispanic vote in 1998, according to exit polls, and his camp has high hopes of improving on that showing. They are less optimistic about surpassing the 15 percent of the black vote he won in that race -- particularly if Mr. McCall is the Democratic nominee. But they say it is important for the governor to appeal to blacks, if only so that they are not motivated to turn out in large numbers against him. 
Over the past two months, the governor has intensely wooed minority voters, making repeated appearances in heavily black, Hispanic and immigrant neighborhoods in and around New York City, often accompanied by minority political figures.
In particular, the governor has become a vocal opponent of the Navy's bombing of the Puerto Rican island of Vieques, a subject he rarely mentioned before this year. His actions on the issue, including lobbying the Bush administration, have attracted heavy, mostly positive coverage in New York City's Spanish-language news media.
At an East Harlem rally last month, Mr. Pataki shouted, "No ms bombas!" and announced that he would go to Vieques, which he did the following week. On that trip to Puerto Rico, and again last week in New York City, he held news conferences with Gov. Sila M. Calder<spade>n of Puerto Rico, whom he embraced and kissed, and a raft of other Hispanic politicians to denounce the bombing. Just this week, he appeared with Denise Qui. Daniels was the first black person to hold that position in more than 20 years. When the governor swore in Mr. Daniels, the sort of thing that is usually done quietly, the ceremony was staged at the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building in Harlem.
The governor has also stepped up his courtship of organized labor, beginning with Dennis Rivera, leader of the hospital workers' union, 1199, and one of the state's most prominent Hispanic political figures. In March, the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. held a fund-raiser for the governor, a first.
A few issues could prove difficult for Mr. Pataki in the coming months. If the state's energy problems turn into a full-fledged crisis, he is likely to be blamed, rightly or not, as the man who led the charge for deregulation, and Democrats are already working to pin those troubles on him. Recent revelations about State University of New York contracts going to people with ties to the governor could return to haunt him. And how Mr. Pataki, who has benefited from a healthy economy in past elections, might fare if the situation weakens significantly remains unclear. 
Mr. Pataki's biggest challenge is New York, itself, where Republicans seem as much the underdogs as ever. 
"He's a good fit for the state because he's a moderate, and he's been a good governor, but when in doubt, the state wants to go Democratic, so there's not a lot of margin of error for him," said Mike Murphy, the political consultant who handled Representative Rick A. Lazio's failed Senate bid last year.
The Democrats' advantage over Republicans among registered voters has grown in recent years, and now stands at 5 million to 3.1 million, and Republicans have fared poorly in recent elections. In 1998, Charles E. Schumer unseated Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Eliot L. Spitzer knocked off Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco, leaving the governor as the only Republican elected to statewide office. Last year, not only did Mr. Gore swamp Mr. Bush in New York but Hillary Rodham Clinton also won by 12 percent. And Democrats have made gains in recent legislative and local elections.
Most encouraging to the Democrats, in upstate New York, long a Republican redoubt, Mr. Schumer took 45 percent of the vote, and Mrs. Clinton 47 percent.
Mr. Pataki's advisers and allies play down many of those specifics as isolated cases, but even they acknowledge that, in all, New York has become unfriendly turf for Republicans.
"The ground rules have changed in New York," said Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican. "Upstate isn't guaranteed Republican territory any more, the suburbs are changing. New York is becoming a more Democratic state."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In an effort to court Hispanic voters, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York has called for ending the Navy's bombing of the Puerto Rican island of Vieques and has met with with Gov. Sila M. Calder<spade>n of Puerto Rico. (Associated Press)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); POWER FAILURES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); GUN CONTROL (64%); ABORTION (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2002 



700 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Boeing's Russian Edge 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 25 

 BODY:
Ever notice that overhead compartments in Boeing planes now fit big rolling carry-on suitcases? Russian designers made it happen.
 Wonder why planes don't have beds on long flights? Russian engineers are working on it. 
 Foreigners may associate Russian engineering with the Mir space station's last fitful years or the meltdown of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. That ratty reputation, however, has more to do with this country's aging equipment and Soviet-era infrastructure than with the quality of design.
Scary stories aside, Russians are some of the most agile and skillful engineers and designers in the world. Ask anyone who works with them. 
"The Russians are creative -- these are the guys who designed spaceships," said Esther Dyson, venture capitalist and Internet exponent. "If you have a tough problem that requires compression or complex scientific operating systems, if you want awesome graphics or an airplane design, Russians are really good."
In recent years, however, designers from Russia's aerospace industry have not been very busy. A decade-long slump in domestic demand after the fall of the Soviet Union shows no sign of ending.
Though few engineers lost their jobs -- the industry has yet to go through the deep restructuring it needs to be more efficient and competitive -- the work has dwindled.
The Boeing Company has taken advantage of the collapse. Its Moscow design center, which it opened with 10 Russian scientists in 1992, now employs about 650 engineers, scientists and computer specialists from Russia's biggest aircraft design bureaus.
Boeing contracts with the Russian companies, including Ilyushin and Tupolev, which are then able to pay salaries as much as 10 times the average Russian designer's pay of $200 to $500 a month.
Western manufacturers are drawn to Russia by its highly qualified work force, executives said. Russian engineers, who generally are used to improve designs for existing airplanes rather than develop new products, are also relatively inexpensive. Russia is the only country outside the United States where Boeing operates such a center, though the company said last week that it would open a small research center in Madrid to develop environmental and air traffic management technologies. Boeing also relies on subcontractors, many of which do some of their own design work, from all over the world.
"Quality caught our eye" in Russia, said Sergei Kravchenko, Boeing country executive for Russia and countries of the former Soviet Union. "There's no other place in the world where there are so many underemployed Ph.D.'s applying for jobs as car mechanics. But we probably wouldn't have grown so fast if it wasn't such a strong business case."
Hank Queen, vice president for engineering at Boeing's commercial airplanes division, said Russian engineers also offered fresh perspectives on established ways of doing things. "They know things that we don't," he said.
While Russian designers make up less than 1 percent of the thousands of engineers employed by Boeing, the Moscow center will double its stable of designers within a year. And Boeing, which runs neck and neck with its European rival, Airbus Industrie, in new orders for commercial airliners, may open more small research and design centers outside the United States, Mr. Queen said.
That does not sit well with Boeing designers based in the United States. Their union in Seattle said much of the Moscow center's design work had to be redone because of differences in language and methodologies.
Rich Plunkett, a contract administrator at the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace, the union that represents many Boeing engineers, estimates that a Moscow engineer costs Boeing $46 an hour, far less than an American. But that low wage does not necessarily save the company money because of the extra work needed, he said.
"This hasn't been a red flag for us yet, but it's a yellow flag," said Bill Dugovich, communications director at the engineers' union. "About three months ago the company came to us and outlined six jobs in Seattle that were going to be transferred to Moscow. We want to watch this closely."
Here in Moscow, though, the setup is appealing to Russian engineers, who after the fall of the Soviet Union found themselves in an economy that no longer valued their skills and had to search for ways to supplement their income. Their companies, meanwhile, were scrambling to adjust to the new market conditions.
Aleksandr Amelin, 41, a design manager who worked at the Ilyushin Design Bureau for 18 years and came to Boeing in 1997 when the company began hiring Russian designers, said his company had experimented with a noodle-packaging machine and an industrial dryer for shoe production.
Before he was hired by Boeing, Mr. Amelin, who was trained at the prestigious Moscow Aviation Institute, worked part time designing billboards and slot machines -- and even found work as a salesman in a women's clothing store in Moscow, where he lasted two days.
"The moment of truth for me came in 1997," said Mr. Amelin, recalling his days at Ilyushin, which designed many of the commercial aircraft that are still flown by Aeroflot and other airlines in the old Soviet bloc. "Before, the pay was small but at least the work was interesting. Later, the work had become less interesting. We weren't working on major projects anymore. There were no new plane designs."
In Boeing's design center, on four floors of a glass high-rise near the Kremlin, designers work in two shifts, the later one overlapping with the workdays of Boeing designers in Seattle; Wichita, Kan.; and Long Beach, Calif.
While the design tasks are similar to those at the Russian companies, the approach is different, many engineers here said. Newcomers have much to get used to, beginning with rules that forbid smoking and require English, and ending with new computers and new ways to transfer designs to the factory floor.
Nadezhda Frolenkova, 44, an Ilyushin engineer for 26 years who joined Boeing in December, said she liked the smoking ban -- "I used to have to put on a gas mask to go to the bathroom," she said -- but was frightened by computers. As a tool designer at Ilyushin she never used them, not even for e-mail. She did her design work exclusively by hand.
"At first I was afraid of it, but now we are friends," said Ms. Frolenkova, gesturing to the computer on her desk, where lists of English words like "trim," "merge" and "pattern" hang over it.
Despite such initial hitches, Russian engineers are proving their worth, Boeing said. Russian designers, for example, created a new overhead arch beam that holds up airplane storage bins. The part used to take more than 18 hours of hand labor to assemble, but the redesigned version, which is lighter, is now made entirely by machine in less than an hour.
Russians are also working on redesigning the floor of a Boeing cargo plane to let it take more weight, a task that will take about 20,000 hours to complete. Boeing expects to offer Russian-designed in-flight bunks for use by crew members early next year; eventually, a version for passengers will be available for airlines to buy.
"There's a lot of freedom in design -- you propose what you think is the best solution to the problem," said Olga Volkova, a 39-year-old designer.
Several floors below the designers' offices, physicists and mathematicians, some from Moscow's foremost scientific research institutes, tackle other problems. Scientists like Sergei Medvedev, for example, have devised ways to test aircraft designs on regular desktop computers, an option far cheaper and faster than using supercomputers or wind tunnels.
There are some problems that cannot be solved by computers, however. Boeing still uses wind tunnels for some tests, for example. And Mr. Amelin recalled that when the Moscow center had just opened, a Russian and an American, neither of whom spoke the other's language, resolved a design problem through a series of back-and-forth scrawls on a scrap of paper.
"The thing that surprised me most is how similar we are," he said. "Engineers think the same whether at Boeing or in a Russian company."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boeing operates a design center near the Kremlin in Moscow. Top, engineers work on a pulley bracket. Above left, Nadezhda Frolenkova helps modify a 777. Above right, Aleksandr Borhin, left, and Aleksandr Vereuhin study 747 equipment. (Paul Miller for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); SPACECRAFT (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); AIRLINES (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); SPACE STATIONS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (71%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (68%); DISMISSALS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); POWER PLANTS (56%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (56%); VENTURE CAPITAL (54%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



701 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Stocks Are Dragged Lower by Sluggish Reports on the Economy

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell yesterday as a series of economic reports showed that the American economy was still very sluggish.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 117.05 points, or 1.1 percent, to end at 11,005.37. It was down 2.6 percent for the week. 
 The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index dropped 30.99 points, or 1.4 percent to 2,251.03. But it was up 2.4 percent for the week, its third positive week in the last four. 
And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.28 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,277.89. It declined 1.1 percent last week.
Trading was relatively light, with 828.1 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, as investors headed into the holiday weekend. 
Analysts said the markets had only a modest reaction to four economic reports released yesterday morning because they did not show that the economy was weaker than expected.
Analysts also said that Alan Greenspan's comments Thursday night apparently did not worry investors, although the Federal Reserve chairman gave slightly conflicting signals. Mr. Greenspan signaled that if the economy slowed further, the Fed would cut interest rates again. But he also said that the five half-point rate cuts the central bank had made since January should help the economy turn around later this year. This comment led some analysts to conclude that the next rate cut, if there is one, will be just a quarter-point.
Despite the potentially conflicting signals from the Fed chairman, the yield on the June futures contract for federal funds, which is the central bank's benchmark interest rate, was unchanged at 3.99 percent yesterday. This indicates that some investors still think there will be a rate cut when Fed policy makers next meet at the end of June.
In the Treasury market, the yield on the two-year note fell to 4.26 percent, from 4.29 percent Thursday, another indication that Mr. Greenspan's remarks did not worry investors too much and that the economy remained sluggish.
The yield on the 10-year note rose to 5.49 percent, from 5.47 percent, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped 4/32, to 96 11/32.
"We're not out of the woods," said Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "We're waiting for this monetary medicine to take effect, and we're also hoping for some fiscal medicine to help out," he said, referring to President Bush's proposed tax cut.
According to the Department of Commerce, the gross domestic product, a broad measure of economic activity, grew at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the first quarter, down from the 2 percent first reported. The revision was close to the 1.4 percent expected by Wall Street. 
On a positive note, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index rose to 92.0 in May, up from 88.4 in April. That was very close to expectations of 92.2. But existing-home sales fell 4.2 percent in April, to an annual rate of 5.20 million units from 5.43 million in March.
Sales of durable goods also tumbled 5 percent in April, to $187.74 billion. Economists had predicted a slip of 2 percent but this data is known for its very volatile swings.
While the rebound of the stock market since early April indicates that many investors are expecting the economy to recover in the second half of the year, the rising number of layoffs and further increases in the nation's unemployment rate could dampen consumer spending and slow economic growth further.
Initial claims for unemployment insurance reached their highest levels since 1994 this week. And more companies announced layoffs. Boeing said yesterday that it would lay off 600 workers at its commercial airplane operation in Long Beach, Calif. Shares of Boeing dropped $1.87, to $63.33. ABC News, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, announced it was trimming 125 jobs from its work force. Disney stock slipped 66 cents, to $32.64. Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street firm, reaffirmed Wednesday that it was dismissing about 150 investment bankers. Yesterday, Goldman fell $1.89, to $97.96.
Before marching downward Wednesday, technology stocks enjoyed a six-day run-up as investors, believing that the bottom was near, embraced the sector.
Some analysts said that the switch of Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont from Republican to independent undermined stocks because his move gave control of the Senate to the Democrats. Other analysts said the market closed down because investors were cashing in on the recent market rally.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); FUTURES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX LAW (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



702 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Russia Sees Payoff in Storing Nuclear Wastes From Other Nations 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 25 

 BODY:
Despite some strong opposition from the public at home and by the government in the United States, Russia is preparing to open its borders to become the largest international repository for radioactive nuclear wastes.
 With strong backing from President Vladimir V. Putin, the Ministry of Atomic Energy is expected to get a new legal mandate from Parliament next month to offer permanent storage for the highly toxic spent nuclear fuel that has been piling up in temporary storage basins at power plants around the world. 
 Moscow estimates that it can earn $21 billion in the next two decades by accepting 20,000 tons from 15 countries Russia has identified that would send used reactor cores by ship and train to new installations in Siberia, one of which is nearing completion.
The program would represent a far-reaching development in the international nuclear power industry, as governments in Germany, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan are in the midst of national debates over how to dispose of highly radioactive reactor fuel cores. Spent fuel assemblies, filled with toxic byproducts of the nuclear fission that occurs inside reactor cores, must either be buried in secure geologic formations for thousands of years, or reprocessed to recycle the plutonium and uranium in them as new fuel. 
But the reprocessing of nuclear fuel has become one of the most delicate issues of the nuclear safety debate because it separates plutonium and uranium in forms that might be stolen or diverted to illicit nuclear weapons programs. Russia, France and Britain reprocess fuel for civilian reactor programs, and Germany and Japan ship spent fuel to England and France for reprocessing, but the issue of permanent storage for most of the world's spent nuclear fuels and their wastes remains an open question.
The United States abandoned reprocessing technologies in the Ford and Carter administrations, citing proliferation dangers in creating a "plutonium economy," higher costs and environmental concerns. The United States is still evaluating whether it can safely store spent fuel and wastes from 104 American reactors at Yucca Mountain in Nevada.
A key element in the Russian proposal is to accept the world's spent fuel, charging up to $1,600 per 2.2 pounds to hold it in perpetuity, but also preserving the option to reprocess and resell it should national policies and economics lead to safer reactor designs and new fuel configurations.
Russian officials say they hope to use profits from the new industry to help pay for an extensive environmental cleanup program here and to promote the development of more efficient reactors that would use plutonium-based fuels in a form designed to prevent their diversion for weapons use.
Russia faces enormous cleanup tasks from Soviet-era radiation accidents and illicit dumping at sea by the Soviet and Russian navies. At the same time, the country has trouble meeting the demand for electricity and has five nuclear plants in various stages of completion to bolster the 29 existing plants. 
At the heart of Russia's proposal, officials here say, is an attempt to seize a large share of the future market for nuclear energy at a time when industrialized nations are facing increasing demand for electricity and growing concerns about global warming.
"Russia will demonstrate to the world that its technological potential is high, and it will pave the way to new projects," said Aleksandr Rumyantsev, the country's new minister of atomic energy.
Valentin B. Ivanov, the deputy minister, said in an interview this week that Russia was not sure what shape the nuclear industry would take, but that by garnering a significant share of the nuclear fuels market, it could secure a place for itself as an international supplier of nuclear technology.
The Russian initiative comes at a time when the Bush administration has cut funds for joint projects with Russia to reduce plutonium stockpiles, close Soviet-era bomb-making installations and provide financing to Russian nuclear scientists formerly employed in weapons production. At the same time, President Bush has ordered a broad review of nuclear power in the United States, including an examination of safer reactor designs and nuclear fuels resistant to diversion.
The Russian proposal faces immediate obstacles because the United States controls the movement, through licensing agreements, of nuclear fuels now powering most of the reactors operating overseas.
Nonetheless, Russian officials say they hope to reach an agreement with the Bush administration to enter this business. And Washington is expected to come under some pressure to cooperate from governments that have not resolved what to do with their spent nuclear fuel. Some is stored in high-risk earthquake zones, like Taiwan, which has six American-built nuclear reactors and will soon have two more.
Japan has 53 operating reactors and is in the midst of a national debate over how to store its nuclear wastes. In Europe, there are more than 150 nuclear reactors, and France generates 76 percent of its electrical power with nuclear energy.
Though American companies like Westinghouse and General Electric have sold nuclear reactors around the world, the United States government has made no commitment to assume responsibility for the long-term storage of spent fuel and its wastes. Washington does retain veto power over where that fuel can be transported.
During the Clinton administration, Washington encouraged Russia to remove a ban on importing spent fuels. By removing the ban, American officials calculated, Russia could help solve the coming crisis over the long-term disposal of toxic wastes, most of them from reactors sold by American companies.
A group of influential Americans, including a former director of central intelligence, William H. Webster, helped to create the Nonproliferation Trust, a private company that has worked to win support and financing for a permanent repository in Russia for 10,000 tons of spent fuel from reactors operating outside the United States. 
Despite those efforts, an agreement has been stymied by American concerns over proliferation, Russia's nuclear cooperation with Iran, and Moscow's ambition to make use of spent fuels. 
Thomas B. Cochran, a longtime environmental activist who promoted the idea of building a Russian repository as a consultant to the Nonproliferation Trust, said Russian officials were unwilling to accept a moratorium on reprocessing spent fuel. For this reason, he said, the new Russian plan will be "dead on arrival on this side of the Atlantic." 
Russian officials disagree. They said this week that as soon as they won legislative approval, they would seek to acquire from foreign customers several thousands tons of spent fuel whose movement does not require United States approval. An installation that can hold the first 3,000 tons of fuel is nearing completion in the closed nuclear city Krasnoyarsk-26 in central Siberia.
"We will act in parallel," said Mr. Ivanov, the deputy atomic energy minister. He added that "we understand that without an agreement with the United States, it is impossible to use the spent fuel" of many countries. But at the same time, he said, "we know that approximately 10 percent of spent fuel exists outside the U.S. umbrella, and we have received information from some governments that they will start negotiations with us if we get this legislation."
Mr. Ivanov, a physicist and reactor designer, said the United States and Russia could decide to work together on a world standard for proliferation-resistant nuclear fuels and reactors, or they can work separately. In any case, it appears that the two nations now face contentious negotiations on competitive strategies for future energy technologies. 
From the outset, a major obstacle will be Russia's plans to supply as many as five nuclear reactors to Iran, creating an atomic energy industry in a country that is believed to support terrorism and seeking to develop nuclear weapons in secret.
Rose Gottemoeller, a former Department of Energy official who supervised nonproliferation programs involving Russia in the Clinton administration. said: "The Bush administration could just continue to stiff-arm Russia on the spent fuel storage issue, saying, 'No way, no how' because it can't keep its own nuclear material safe, so why encourage more."
"But there is a new game in town," she said, noting Mr. Bush's interest in re-examining overall nuclear energy policy.
"The administration will at least want to examine this storage idea with the Russians in order to get them to come to the table and get our Iran questions resolved," she said, adding that new technologies in Russia also may warrant study. 
Still, there is high-level resistance in Washington to any strategy that would add to Russia's inventory of nuclear fuels and wastes when major issues of radioactive contamination in parts of Russia remain outstanding, along with security concerns over the safe storage of weapons-grade uranium and plutonium.
Kathleen Crane, a geophysicist from Hunter College in New York who mapped radioactive contamination in Russia from 1993 to 1997, said she had long been opposed to allowing spent fuel to be stored in Russia.
But, she said, "nuclear waste is going to be imported by Russia whatever we do, and instead of just letting it happen, we and the rest of the world should take an active role in trying to control it." 
Though they acknowledge a grim Soviet legacy that includes the Chernobyl nuclear disaster in Ukraine and other serious accidents, Russian officials seem determined to take this new legislative step -- despite polls that show that the public overwhelmingly opposes it -- if only to position Russia to profit from an industry that, worldwide, may be discovering a new momentum.
Russian officials say they have conducted experiments on a new type of fast breeder reactor, long thought to be too dangerous because its fuel "breeds" more plutonium, creating proliferation risks when that plutonium is recovered in reprocessing.
In coming months, a Russian research reactor will begin testing a new fast reactor fuel that combines plutonium and uranium in a form that cannot be used for nuclear weapons and that does not require traditional reprocessing, said Anatoly S. Polyakov, deputy director of the Bochvar Research Institute here. 
"We have a lot to offer," he said, "but the only way for cooperation with the United States is that it be mutually beneficial."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Yes, in Our Back Yard"Russia has identified 15 countries in Europe and Asia as potential customers for its nuclear waste site at Krasnoyarsk. Map of Europe and Asia highlighting countries that are potential customers for Russia's nuclear waste site at Krasnoyarsk. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (75%); NAVIES (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%) NUCLEAR WASTES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%) TYLER, PATRICK E; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEVADA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ENGLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%) RUSSIA; SIBERIA

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



703 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Grim Resolve After Deaths 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: MERIDA, Mexico, May 25 

 BODY:
So many have lost their lives crossing into the promised land that some in Mexico were simply numbed by news of the deaths of 14 more migrants abandoned in the Arizona desert. 
 President Vicente Fox and his ministers were not. No issue has been more emotional for Mr. Fox than the fate of Mexican migrants, and the deaths in the desert this week show how frustrating it has been for him to find a solution. 
 Ever since he took office nearly six months ago, Mr. Fox has been urging the United States to work with him to find ways to protect the lives of migrants without breaking American laws. While both sides have spoken earnestly about dealing with illegal immigration -- or migration, as the United States now calls it at the instigation of Mexico -- it is far from clear how they can meet that goal. 
Mr. Fox has repeatedly hailed as heroes the hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who go to the United States seeking work. He said today that he wanted the United States to grant legal status to as many Mexican migrants as possible so "they don't have to live in the shadows and don't have to live from hand to mouth."
After meeting four of the survivors in their hospital beds in the Yuma Regional Medical Center in Arizona, Juan Hernandez, whom Mr. Fox appointed to the new post of minister for migrant affairs, said in a telephone interview that there was much both countries had to do to prevent more Mexicans from suffering such a fate.
"One of them, a young woman, said she had been tempted by the wealth of the richest country on earth," he said. "Now, we have a great obligation to create opportunities in Mexico so that people are not obliged to leave to find work. But the truth is, people are dying. And these are the new pioneers of America, where everyone is the son or daughter or grandchild of immigrants."
With the possible exception of drug smuggling, migration is the most complicated issue between the United States and Mexico. Millions of people seeking work have illegally crossed over -- about 150,000 last year -- along the nearly 2,000-mile border. Thousands have died trying, now at a rate of roughly one a day.
Enrique Berruga, Mexico's under secretary of foreign affairs, said in an interview that the four issues the two nations needed to resolve were the documentation of immigrants already in the United States, the guest worker program, increasing the number of visas issued, and the ways that border security is enforced. Tough American border enforcement in populated areas has led desperate migrants to seek increasingly isolated and dangerous routes, like the one used by the Mexicans who died in the Arizona desert. 
Mexican officials have even considered issuing survival kits to migrants that would include rehydration salts and food. But they say they cannot tell the United States how to enforce its laws.
Officials of the two countries may find common ground, though, in new guest worker programs. Mr. Fox proposes to increase the number of seasonal farm workers permitted to enter the United States to 250,000 a year, from 40,000 today. This idea has been supported by many farm-state politicians in the United States, and some labor unions.
It is one idea that has emerged from high-level meetings between Mexican and American officials that began with President Bush's visit to Mexico in February and will resume in San Antonio on June 6. 
The contrasts between the two nations' economics and demographics are stark. Those born in Mexico's baby boom are in their 20's and 30's and are eager to find better-paying jobs, Mr. Hernandez said. The minimum daily wage in Mexico is less than the minimum hourly wage in the United States.
In southern Guerrero state, where three of the victims lived, there is very little work outside the tourist enclave of Acapulco. In rural Veracruz, where the remainder of the dead lived, small towns barely sustain themselves. 
Mr. Hernandez promised that Mexico would work with the United States to prevent more deaths.
"We are talking much more closely than ever before," he said. "And we are not going to close our eyes anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan Hernandez, Mexico's minister of migrant affairs (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); DESERTS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); SMUGGLING (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUMA, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



704 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
1st-Quarter G.D.P. Rose At a Sluggish 1.3% Pace
For the first time since 1995, the economy grew by less than 2 percent for two consecutive quarters, the government reported.
 The gross domestic product, a measure of the output of goods and services, rose at an annual pace of 1.3 percent in the first quarter, slower than the 2 percent expected but up from the 1 percent pace in the fourth quarter. C3. 

Hong Kong's economy felt the effects of the global slowdown in the first quarter of 2001, growing 2.5 percent, compared with 14.1 percent in the quarter last year. C2.

Negotiators Agree on a Tax Cut Deal
Congressional negotiators have agreed on all aspects of the biggest tax cut in 20 years, and final votes were scheduled for today in the House and Senate. The plan to reduce taxes by $1.35 trillion will lower taxes for married couples, will expand the tax credit for children and will eventually repeal the estate tax. A1.

Senator Demands Energy Hearings
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California called for hearings into possible improprieties between members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and private energy interests. Ms. Feinstein said the commission had not acted to protect California residents from companies that were reaping undue profits through spiraling energy costs. A11.

The chairman of the El Paso Corporation shed some light in testimony before an administrative judge on a transaction that California officials say was used to drive up natural gas prices in the state. C4.

Russia to Collect Nuclear Waste
Despite strong opposition from the public at home and by the United States government, Russia is preparing to become the largest international repository for radioactive nuclear wastes. Moscow estimates that it can earn $21 billion over the next two decades by accepting 20,000 tons from 15 nations. A1.

Inquiry Into General Dynamics Deal
Antitrust enforcers at the Justice Department are taking a closer look at General Dynamics' proposed acquisition of Newport News Shipbuilding. Newport News is the subject of rival bids from General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman. Northrop and its supporters in Washington have argued that the General Dynamics proposal would create a monopoly in nuclear shipbuilding. C3.

Enron's Dispute in India Intensifies
Talks meant to settle a dispute between Enron and Indian federal and state government officials over months of unpaid power bills fell apart this week. Then, the state-run utility at the center of the dispute -- the sole customer for electricity generated by the Enron-controlled Dabhol Power Company, above -- served notice that it would challenge the validity of the contract between Dabhol and the utility and seek to have it canceled. C2.

A Dispute Over the 'Survivor' Show
A former contestant on the CBS television show "Survivor" contends the program's producer, Mark Burnett, improperly persuaded fellow contestants to eliminate her from the program -- and a chance to win its $1 million top prize. He has denied the charge. C14.

Italy Acts to Thwart Takeover Bid
Italy's outgoing center-left government has acted to thwart a takeover of Montedison, a conglomerate with holdings from power generating to sugar processing, by Electricite de France, which has acquired as much as 20 percent of Montedison shares. C2.

Markets Closed Memorial Day
United States financial markets, government offices and banks will be closed Monday in observance of Memorial Day. Financial markets will be open in other countries.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 11,005.37 down 117.05Nasdaq composite -- 2,251.03 down 30.9910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.49% up 0.02The euro -- $0.8597 up 0.0029The dollar -- 120.61 yen up 0.77 Graph tracks the seasonally adjusted gross domestic product from 1996-2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (87%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (86%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ESTATE TAX (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); NUCLEAR WASTE (69%); JUDGES (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); MARRIAGE (67%); SHIPBUILDING (66%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (83%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO (52%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING EMPLOYEES' CREDIT UNION (52%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (53%); NOC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (83%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (52%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (52%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



705 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Russia Planning to Accept Nuclear Waste From Others
Russia is preparing to open its borders to become the largest repository for nuclear wastes. President Vladimir V. Putin has strongly backed the plan. Moscow estimates it can earn $21 billion over two decades by accepting 20,000 tons from 15 nations, money it says it will use to clean up the environment. A1

Freeing Sierra Leone's Children
More than 400 child soldiers were released by the Revolutionary United Front, the rebel group that has terrorized Sierra Leone for the last decade by kidnapping children and chopping off people's arms. A3

Jerusalem in Mourning
Jerusalemites struggled to deal with what some described as crisis overload after at least 24 people died when a wedding hall collapsed. A6

Powell Criticizes Zimbabwean
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in assessing the state of Africa, called on President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe to "submit to the law and the will of the people" in a fair presidential election next year instead of clinging to power. A3

Fencing In the Taliban
A panel on international sanctions in Afghanistan said border patrols of all neighboring nations needed to be strengthened to stop the export of Islamic militancy. A6

Mexico Ex-Governor Charged
Mario Villanueva, left, a fugitive former governor of Quintana Roo and one of Mexico's most-wanted men, was arrested in Cancun and then charged in New York with helping to ship 200 tons of cocaine to the United States in exchange for bribes. A4

Fleeing Macedonia's Offensive
Thousands of ethnic Albanian villagers fled their homes on foot this week from a government offensive against rebels in the northern hills. A6

World Briefing A7

OBITUARIES A14

Walter Eytan
An early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign service to meet the needs of a new state that was suddenly at war with its neighbors, he was 90. A14

NATIONAL A8-11

Biggest Tax Cut in 20 YearsIs Facing Final Votes Today
Congressional negotiators agreed on all the aspects of the tax cut, and final votes are scheduled for today in the House and Senate. The government will send a rebate check this year to all Americans who pay income taxes. Tax rates will drop, taxes for married couples will fall, the tax credit for children will be expanded and the estate tax will eventually be repealed. A1

Senate Shift in High Gear
The Democrats who are expected to lead the Senate's 15 committees are busy shaping the year ahead after their party takes control of the Senate for the first time since 1994. A1

Bush Advises Free Thinking
A day after President Bush discovered that a touch of political risk-taking cost him control of the United States Senate, he told graduates of the United States Naval Academy that they need the freedom to roam in new directions even if "some of your ideas may fail." The speech was drafted before the White House discovered Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont was defecting. A9

Deaths Put Focus on Border
Immigrant rights groups said the deaths of 14 Mexicans in the desert near Yuma, Ariz., have caused them to consider stronger challenges to what they call hostile United States border policy. Doctors said the condition of the 12 Mexican immigrants who survived was improving. A10

Mexico's minister for migrant affairs said after visiting four of the survivors in the hospital there was much that both countries had to do to prevent more Mexicans from suffering such a fate. President Vicente Fox said he wanted the United States to grant legal status to as many Mexican migrants as possible. A10

Smithsonian Official Criticized
A group of curators and scholars at the Museum of American History has accused Lawrence M. Small, the Smithsonian Institution's secretary, of jeopardizing the integrity of the institution and breaching standard museum practices because of agreements he has reached with multimillion dollar donors. A8

Energy Hearings Sought
Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, accused federal regulators of not doing their job and called for hearings into possible improprieties between members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and private energy interests. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Pataki Faces Rough Race For Third Term as Governor
As Gov. George E. Pataki looks toward a probable run for a third term next year, New York's political landscape starts to resemble a minefield. A Republican, he leads a state that leans heavily Democratic now more than ever, and he is likely to face a well-known opponent. The economy has stalled and an electricity crisis may be just over the horizon. This shapes up as a very tough race for Mr. Pataki, strategists said. A1

Window Shopping, Home-Style
Not everyone who goes to real estate open houses in Manhattan is interested in buying. B1

Beliefs A11

EDUCATION 

Rewards for Better Schools
In the first citywide application of merit pay in New York City public schools, Chancellor Harold O. Levy announced that he would award bonuses as high as $15,000 to principals and other administrators in 300 schools that saw the largest improvement in test scores. A1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-14

A Royal Shake-Up
The Royal Shakespeare Company announced that it would dismantle its permanent company of actors and abandon its London base at the Barbican Center to attract bigger stars and present more productions in the showier West End. The move is one of many in what the artistic director Adrian Noble said would be a major reorganization of the company, which has nurtured the careers of actors like Ben Kingsley, above, John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier, Vanessa Redgrave and Kenneth Branagh. B7

SPORTS D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Midwife on Trial Over Death
A midwife is on trial in Chicago on a charge of involuntary manslaughter after a baby died during a home birth. A8

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Second Wind for Author
The United States Court of Appeals in Atlanta overturned a preliminary injunction blocking publication of "The Wind Done Gone," a novel that revisits the plantation setting of "Gone With the Wind" from a slave's perspective. The ruling makes it all but certain that the book by Alice Randall, above, will appear in stores before the case is ultimately settled. C1

Hughes Chairman Quits
Michael T. Smith, chairman of the satellite concern Hughes Electronics, has resigned. Harry J. Pearce, vice chairman of General Motors, will lead Hughes. C1

Stock Prices Fall
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 117.05 points, or 1.1 percent. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 30.99 points, or 1.4 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-index fell 15.28 points, or 1.2 percent. C1

Economic Growth Stays Slow
For the first time since 1995, the United States economy grew by less than 2 percent for two consecutive quarters, the government said. C3

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: New threats to cleaner air; injustice in Egypt; a retreat on tax havens; Mr. Bruno and gay rights.

Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B14
Crossword B12
Weather D8
Public Lives A8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); TAX RELIEF (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHILD SOLDIERS (76%); TALIBAN (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); NAVIES (69%); ESTATE TAX (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); ARRESTS (65%); INCOME TAX (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); RELIGION (51%); COCAINE (50%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); MEXICO (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); ISRAEL (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



706 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS AGREES ON FINAL DETAILS FOR TAX-CUT BILL 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25 

 BODY:
Congressional negotiators agreed today on all aspects of the biggest tax cut in 20 years, and final votes are scheduled for Saturday in the House and Senate.
 Under the legislation, everyone who filed an income tax return this year will receive a rebate check from the government by the end of September -- $300 for individuals and $600 for couples. 
 Tax brackets except for the 15 percent bracket are to drop by 1 percentage point on July 1. The top tax rate, now 39.6 percent, will fall in stages to 35 percent in 2006. The other rates above the 15 percent rate will also fall in stages and will be 3 percentage points lower in 2006 than they are now. 
Beginning next year, taxes for married couples will fall, and the tax credit for children will be expanded.
The size of estates exempt from the estate tax are scheduled to be increased next year and several times over the next decade, with repeal of the estate tax set for 2010.
Altogether, taxes are to be reduced by $1.35 trillion, slightly less than the $1.6 trillion President Bush proposed over 10 years. But the lower number was met by assuming that all the tax cuts would expire in 2010, and unlike the president's proposal and the bills passed by the Senate and the House, no revenue loss was shown for 2011.
The tax bill the House-Senate conference committee approved tonight was written in three days of almost round-the-clock negotiations among Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Representative Bill Thomas of California, both Republicans, and Senators Max Baucus of Montana and John B. Breaux of Louisiana, both Democrats.
"As a result of this landmark tax relief agreement, the American taxpayers will have more money in their pockets to save and invest and the economy will receive a much needed shot in the arm," President Bush said in a statement issued by the White House. "I commend the members of the House and Senate, Republican and Democrat alike, who made this happen. Tax relief is a centerpiece of our American agenda and I look forward to signing it into law."
Democratic leaders sharply criticized the bill, particularly the elements that would hide the loss of revenue by showing that the tax cuts would expire before 2011.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, was officially a conferee on the legislation but was excluded from the final negotiations. 
Tonight, he accused Republicans of "packing it with every kind of gimmick and sleight of hand I have ever seen."
"It's one big fraud on the American people," Mr. Rangel said.
Lawmakers said there was little doubt the House and Senate would approve the legislation when they vote on Saturday, thus sending the measure to the president to be signed into law.
The bill was Mr. Bush's top legislative priority, but its approval comes at the end of a calamitous week for him politically, because Democrats took over control of the Senate.
Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, who caused the change in party control when he said on Thursday that he would leave the Republican Party and become an independent, did not appear in public today. 
But Mr. Jeffords issued a statement denying that Democrats, who now have a 50-49 majority in the Senate, had promised him the chairmanship of the Environment and Public Works Committee.
"My decision," he said, "was to leave the Republican Party. It was not based on aspirations for something else."
Other senators said they fully expected Mr. Jeffords to assume that chairmanship when they return next month from a week's recess. Mr. Jeffords promised Mr. Bush that he would not leave the party until the final votes on the tax bill so that Republicans could maintain a majority on the conference committee.
Republican leaders, shaken by the turn of events, held several meetings today.
One result was that Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania was given a seat at the leadership table to represent the views of moderate Republicans.
In his announcement on Thursday, Mr. Jeffords said he was leaving the party because his views on issues like education and the environment were ignored by the conservatives who dominate the party in Congress.
"We had one of our biggest victories in the tax bill and one of our biggest disappointments in Senator Jeffords leaving the party," said Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the Republican whip.
Mr. Nickles said he hoped Congress would approve more tax-cut legislation this year, including a reduction in the capital-gains tax, but he conceded that this would "be a little more difficult with the change of leadership."
Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, said, "By increasing its cost and worsening its tilt toward the very wealthy, Republicans have made this bill more fiscally irresponsible, less fair. 
"Once again middle-class working families get left behind." 
Republican lawmakers were thrilled by the outcome. "This is the best day for working men and women since the Reagan tax cuts," said Senator Phil Gramm of Texas. It was made possible, Mr. Gramm said, because Mr. Bush made cutting taxes "the defining issue of his first term as president."
The Senate approved its version of the tax bill on Wednesday. The House approved several tax bills this spring, and the job of the conference committee was to work out the differences and produce one bill for the president's signature.
Mr. Bush has been urging the lawmakers all week to wrap up their work so he could sign a bill by Memorial Day. An administration official said the timing was important so that the Treasury could begin processing rebate checks.
A Treasury official said that taxpayers would receive a letter in July telling them to expect a rebate check. The checks would begin going out in July, she said, and all taxpayers should have them by September.
Only sketchy details of the final agreement were available tonight. But they showed that the tax credit for each child, now $500, would be increased to $600 this year and, in stages, to $1,000 in 2010.
A part of this credit is to be refunded to parents who earn at least $10,000 a year but have too little income to owe taxes.
The refundability provision, sponsored by Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, was strenuously opposed by many other Republicans. But moderate senators from both parties insisted on it, making it a condition of their voting for the final legislation.
Negotiators said that the refundability matter and the size of the top rate were the most difficult issues to resolve. The top rate is now paid by fewer than 1 percent of taxpayers and is owed only on income of more than $297,350.
Among the legislation's other provisions are these:
*The maximum annual contributions to tax-free retirement plans like 401(k) plans and individual retirement accounts will be increased, and tax breaks will be offered to encourage employers to have more favorable pension benefits.
*Limits on deductions and personal exemptions that upper-income taxpayers can claim will be repealed in stages beginning in 2006.
*The amount of income subject to the alternative minimum tax will be increased.
*The earned-income tax credit for low-income workers will be expanded.
The rebate checks this year will result from lowering the tax rate to 10 percent from 15 percent on the first $6,000 of every individual's income and the first $12,000 of a couple's income. These figures will be raised to $7,000 and $14,000 in 2008.
Married couples will get another tax cut starting next year because the size of the standard deduction will be made double that for single people, and more income for couples will be subject to the 15 percent rate, instead of 25 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Tax Cut Takes Its Final Shape"Main provisions of the final agreement reached last night on the 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut. REBATE CHECKSTreasury Department to mail taxpayers checks beginning this summer: $300 for an individual, $500 for a single parent and $600 for a married couple. TAX RATESAll tax rates above 15 percent would fall by 1 percentage point as of July 1, 2001. New 10 percent tax rate applies to first $6,000 of taxable income for single people, $12,000 for married couples filing jointly. Top 39.6 percent rate drops to 35 percent by 2006. Other rates drop gradually by 2006 from 36 percent to 33 percent; 31 percent to 28 percent and 28 percent to 25 percent. The 15 percent rate remains the same. Income limits on itemized deductions are adjusted upward beginning in 2006. Personal exemption phase-out repealed gradually, beginning in 2006. CHILD CREDITChild credit rises from $500 to $600 effective in 2001, meaning it could be claimed on tax forms next year. Rises to $700 in 2005, $800 in 2009 and $1,000 in 2010. Taxpayers earning more than $10,000 who earn too little to owe income tax could claim a refund of 10 percent of earnings, rising to 15 percent over time, above that income level. They cannot now take advantage of the child credit. MARRIED COUPLESStandard deduction for married couples gradually raised so that it is equal to twice that of single taxpayers. If in effect this year, the deduction would be $9,100 instead of $7,600 for a married couple. The 15 percent tax bracket is gradually enlarged so it applies to more of a married couple's income, equal to twice that of singles. If fully in effect this year, the lowest tax rate would apply to $54,100 of a couple's income instead of $45,200. Income limit for earned income tax credit expanded by $3,000, fully phased in by 2008. ESTATE TAXTax repealed in 2010. Top 55 percent rate immediately dropped to 50 percent, eventually to 45 percent. Current $675,000 individual exemption raised to $1 million in 2002, $1.5 million in 2004, $2 million in 2006, $3.5 million in 2009. Tax retained on certain gifts but rate reduced to 40 percent. RETIREMENTTax-favored contribution limits for individual retirement accounts and Roth I.R.A.'s gradually raised from $2,000 to $5,000. No change in income limits. Tax-deferred contribution limits for 401(k)-type plans gradually increased from $10,500 to $15,000. EDUCATIONMaximum $4,000 deduction for higher education tuition lowered to $2,000 for incomes from $130,000 to $160,000. Phases out above that level. Limitation on deductibility of student loan interest removed. Contribution limit for tax-favored education savings accounts raised from $500 to $2,000. (Source: Associated Press)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); ESTATE TAX (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); APPROVALS (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); SALES REBATES (58%) TAXATION; REBATES; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



707 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad; 
A Political Surprise

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A funny thing happened on the way to the British election June 7. When the Conservatives let it be known that they would cut taxes if they won, there was a sharp backlash. It turned out that in Britain today, tax cuts are political poison.
 What a contrast to the United States. There Congress has just approved enormous tax cuts, the centerpiece of George W. Bush's campaign for president. 
 The difference goes deep, really to the political cultures of the two countries. Britons of all stripes want better public services: schools, hospitals, railroads, police. The Bush tax cuts mean that public services will be starved of federal funds for the indefinite future -- yet most Americans seem not to care, or are unaware of those painful consequences. 
The plan to cut taxes was first disclosed by a Conservative shadow minister, Oliver Letwin. The reaction was so negative that Mr. Letwin hid from the press for several days. Tax reduction, someone quipped, was a policy that dared not speak its name.
When a group of business leaders wrote a letter in support of the Conservative Party, they included in the draft a paragraph praising President Bush and his tax cuts. Party officials deleted that paragraph before they published the letter. 
The British are plainly discontented with the level of public services. Schools have come under stinging criticism. Waiting time for operations in the National Health Service averages six months. Britons are more European in their outlook than they used to be, and they know that conditions are better across the Channel. France spends 9 percent of its gross domestic product on health care, compared with Britain's 6.5 percent. 
In the election campaign the Labor prime minister, Tony Blair, charges day after day that "Tory tax cuts" would hurt public services. He says Labor will add 20,000 nurses and 10,000 doctors to the Health Service, the Tories none.
There is some skepticism about Mr. Blair's promises -- understandably, given his government's record in the last four years. Pledges to bolster the Health Service, for example, have not produced solutions for its serious shortcomings.
The sharpest public irritation is probably over the state of the railroads, on which Britons depend far more than Americans. There have been fatal accidents, and tracks need major repairs. 
The Blair government inherited a disastrous Conservative plan that split up the nationalized rail system and sold off the pieces to private companies. Yet now Labor proposes to repeat the disaster on the London subway system. When a reporter asked about that at the party press conference the other day, Mr. Blair and the chancellor of the exchequer, Gordon Brown, simply dissembled. 
Labor can promise to spend more on public services without arousing fear of inflation because of Mr. Brown's conservative fiscal record. As Bill Clinton turned Democratic policy from deficits to balanced budgets, so has Mr. Brown here. And the result has been similar: a healthy economy and low unemployment. 
"We have delivered the economic stability," Mr. Blair said this week, "that allows us now to increase investment in our public services." 
For anyone who knew the Labor Party in the old days, with its talk of Socialism and weakness toward inflationary union demands, today's emphasis on fiscal soundness is astounding. Even the call for better public services is couched in financial language: more "investment" rather than more "spending."
The new Labor look certainly seems to work politically. The polls forecast another Labor landslide. The Conservative leader, William Hague, has approval ratings in the 20's or lower. 
This week the Tories brought in Margaret Thatcher. Lady Thatcher made a savagely anti-European speech, but it was a dud. The Evening Standard called her "an increasingly batty old woman, whose spectre might be used to terrorize recalcitrant children but whose views are quite irrelevant to modern Britain." 
Mr. Hague's last card is to denounce the possibility of Britain joining the European common currency, the euro. He says Mr. Blair wants to "ditch the pound." Perhaps Mr. Blair does; he will decide in the next two years. Polls show a majority against adopting the euro. But that is not what is on the voters' minds now. They are playing on Tony Blair's wicket, public services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (60%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GORDON BROWN (78%); OLIVER LETWIN (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) LEWIS, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



708 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs; 
The president, the veteran labor priest and the makings of a 'Catholic strategy.'

BYLINE:  By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
When Msgr. George G. Higgins, speaking at Sunday's graduation ceremony at the University of Notre Dame, declared that contrary to his usual practice, he wanted to make a few extempore remarks, not a few people on the platform stiffened. 
 Only a few moments before, President Bush had received an honorary degree from the university and delivered the commencement address. 
 It was a superbly crafted address, clear, eloquent and filled, like some of his other speeches, with sentiments about both personal and governmental responsibility to combat poverty that could have won as much agreement on the left of the political spectrum as on the right. 
But coming in conjunction with the impending tax cut, a new energy plan, a set of conservative executive and judicial appointments and other pieces of a White House agenda that looked far less bipartisan, the commencement talk was widely interpreted not as a plan for action but as part of a conscious strategy to woo Roman Catholic supporters. 
Monsignor Higgins, on the other hand, was at the podium being honored for decades of work on behalf of organized labor and economic rights, activities not closely associated with the current administration. He was receiving the Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, given for more than a century to outstanding Catholics. 
So was Monsignor Higgins about to challenge the president? That was hardly the style of a man who for decades had been a key staff member and adviser for the American Catholic bishops and a veteran of Washington proprieties. 
What he wanted to say was a brief, extemporaneous tribute to a classmate from the Chicago seminary, Msgr. John J. Egan, another stalwart of Catholic struggles for social justice and civil rights. Monsignor Egan, whom The Chicago Tribune called "the conscience of Chicago," had died the day before. 
One New York priest who visited Monsignor Egan a few weeks ago found him "organizing until his last breath" -- in weakened condition, on oxygen, but delighted to have just passed on the leadership of one of his campaigns to protect poor people. 
"I was never involved at the hands-on level like he was," Monsignor Higgins said self-deprecatingly in a later telephone interview. "I was more bureaucratic, if you will, somewhat more bookish." 
Bookish hardly captures the extent of Monsignor Higgins's voracious reading, a habit instilled in him by his postal clerk father, whom he has described as "a blue-collar intellectual." Indeed, among the more poignant things about a visit to Monsignor Higgins's pleasant rooms in a residence for priests near the Catholic University of America in Washington are the now-empty bookshelves, bearing only scattered volumes and tapes of lectures on many topics. 
Deteriorating eyesight has forced the 85-year-old priest to give to Catholic University the library he had accumulated, a step he wrote about movingly in the weekly column he has been writing for Catholic papers since 1945. But despite his eye problems and difficulties in walking that remain after hip replacements, it is impossible to get him to complain, and almost equally impossible to lure him into reminiscences about his eventful life. 
He expresses great satisfaction in the progress of Catholic-Jewish relations, a concern he has followed closely since the Second Vatican Council in the mid-1960's. He talks about his work with Cesar Chavez and the organization of farm workers in California -- and his contacts with Solidarity in Poland. 
He laments the declining number of priests. He worries that the Catholic bishops are so preoccupied with looking over their shoulders for signs of approval or disapproval from Rome that they are kept from acting. 
But he does not mention having been honored at an international Catholic-Jewish conference two weeks earlier or the Medal of Freedom he received at the White House last August, and he dodges any big pronouncements. It is all shrewd observation, common sense and good humor. "My life has been very day to day," he says simply. 
After the Notre Dame event, it was similarly hard to draw any comment from him about President Bush's speech. He limited himself to saying that it was well received.
By all reports, it had been. But there were also polite signs of dissent. Some graduates and faculty members wore white armbands. One student, Daniel Moriarty, turned his back, knelt and said the rosary during the president's talk. 
The protester was no freshly radicalized undergraduate, but a 30-year-old former lay missionary in Bolivia now completing a graduate degree in peace studies. The president's speech "was all well and good," Mr. Moriarty said in a telephone conversation, but "a lot of that is compassionate rhetoric." 
Monsignor Higgins may not have been able to see Mr. Moriarty's gesture, but he did mention, with some satisfaction, one sentence in the valedictory address. The valedictorian, Carolyn Weir, had "deftly worked into a sentence references questioning both abortion and the death sentence," Monsignor Higgins said. 
Indeed, she had -- and the sentence provoked resounding applause.
Anyone, Republican or Democrat, trying to design a politically effective "Catholic strategy" or simply wanting to take the measure of American Catholicism had better know something about people like Monsignor Higgins and Monsignor Egan -- and had better be able to parse that valedictorian's sentence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); LIBRARIES (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (71%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (71%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEINFELS, PETER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EGAN, JOHN J (MSGR); HIGGINS, GEORGE G (MSGR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001 



709 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 8131 words

HEADLINE: Complications 

BYLINE:  By Michael Finkel; Michael Finkel is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

 BODY:
After four years on dialysis, with no sign that he was nearing the top of the transplant waiting list, Moshe Tati decided to buy a kidney. This was easier than he had imagined. Several months previous, the name and telephone number of an organ broker had been passed, furtively, around his dialysis group. At the time, Moshe did not think he would use the telephone number. He thought he would wait.
 Then his health began to fail. This happens with kidney patients. Dialysis is a tricky thing, rough on the body -- it keeps you alive while gradually killing you. It is not uncommon for a person to lose 15 pounds during a single three-hour dialysis session. Shortly before he made his decision to buy, Moshe suffered a heart attack. The attack was minor, but it reduced his suitability for transplant surgery and dropped his standing on the organ-waiting list. He was now placed below some people whose kidney failure had just been diagnosed. Moshe was 43 years old, and he was dying, and not one of his family members was a suitable match for a kidney donation. So he called the broker. 
 Moshe lives in Israel, which happens to be one of the more active nations in the international organ-trafficking market. The market, which is completely illegal, is so complex and well organized that a single transaction often crosses three continents: a broker from Los Angeles, say, matches an Italian with kidney failure to a seller in Jordan, for surgery in Istanbul. Though hearts and livers and lungs are occasionally sold, the business deals almost exclusively in kidneys. There are two reasons for this. First, kidneys are, by far, the organ in greatest demand -- there are currently 48,963 patients on the United States kidney waiting list, and less than a tenth that number on the heart list. Second, the kidney is the only major organ that can be wholly harvested from a living person, leaving the donor essentially unharmed. (Recently, liver segments have also been transplanted from live donors.) In other words, with kidneys there are people who want to buy and people who want to sell -- that is, a market.
The sale of human organs, whether from a living person or a cadaver, is against the law in virtually every country (Iran is perhaps the only exception) and has been condemned by all of the world's medical associations. In the United States, the National Organ Transplant Act, passed in 1984, calls for as much as a $50,000 fine and five years in prison if a person is convicted of buying or selling human organs. Francis Delmonico, a professor of surgery at Harvard Medical School and the chairman of the ethics committee of the American Society of Transplant Surgeons, says that paying for organs is "morally and ethically irresponsible." Bernard Cohen, the director of the Eurotransplant International Foundation, based in the Netherlands, calls the idea "inhumane and unacceptable." Pope John Paul II, in a recent address, said that the commercialization of organs violates "the dignity of the human person."
Yet in Israel and a handful of other nations, including India, Turkey, China, Russia and Iraq, organ sales are conducted with only a scant nod toward secrecy. In Israel, there is even tacit government acceptance of the practice -- the national health-insurance program covers part, and sometimes all, of the cost of brokered transplants. Insurance companies are happy to pay, since the cost of kidney surgery, even in the relatively short run, is less than the cost of dialysis. According to the coordinator of kidney transplantation at Hadassah University Hospital in Jerusalem, 60 of the 244 patients currently receiving post-transplant care purchased their new kidney from a stranger -- just short of 25 percent of the patients at one of Israel's largest medical centers participating in the organ business.
Relatively few transplant operations, illegal or legal, take place in Israel. Every proposed kidney transplant in the country between two unrelated people is carefully screened for evidence of impropriety by a national committee. Therefore, almost all of these illegal surgeries are performed elsewhere, in nations where the laws are easier to duck, including the United States. Israel also does not contribute much to the supply side of the equation. Organ donation is extremely low; an estimated 3 percent of Israelis have signed donor cards. Though several rabbis have declared that donation is permissible, there is a deeply ingrained belief in Judaism that the body must be buried intact so that it will be whole when it comes time for resurrection. Islam has a similar doctrine. (Christianity does not.) Neither Islam nor Judaism, however, has an edict against accepting transplanted organs. This situation makes the transplant waiting lists in Israel distressingly long.
Paying for an organ has become so routine in Israel that there have been instances in which a patient has elected not to accept the offer of a kidney donation from a well-matched relative. "Why risk harm to a family member?" one patient told me. Instead, these patients have decided that purchasing a kidney from someone they've never met -- in almost all cases someone who is impoverished and living in a foreign land -- is a far more palatable option.
'I can get you a kidney immediately," said the broker whom Moshe Tati called. "All I need is the money." Then he quoted a price: $145,000, cash, paid in advance. This would cover everything, the broker said -- all hospital fees, the payment to the seller, accommodations for accompanying family members and a chartered, round-trip flight to the country where the surgery would take place. The trip would last about five days, he said, and the destination would be kept secret until the time they left. 
The broker promised that one of the top transplant surgeons in Israel would be flying with them to perform the operation. The broker instructed Moshe to undergo blood and tissue exams so that a match with a kidney seller could be arranged. "I can guarantee you a living donor," the broker said, "a young, strong man. This won't be a cadaver organ."
Desire for a living donor is another reason why dialysis patients often prefer to purchase a kidney and circumvent national programs, where legally transplanted organs are almost always from cadavers. An Israeli kidney buyer named Avriham, who used the same broker as Moshe Tati and traveled to Eastern Europe, described this notion in his own terms: "Why should I wait years just to have a kidney from someone who was in a car accident, pinned in his car for hours, then in miserable condition in the I.C.U. for days, and only then, after all that trauma, have part of him put inside me? That organ is not going to be any good! Or, worse, I could get the organ of an elderly person, a person who died of a stroke or an aneurysm -- that kidney is all used up! It's better to take a kidney from a healthy young man who can also benefit from the money. Where I went, families were so poor they didn't even have bread to eat. The money I gave was a gift equal to the gift I received. I insisted on seeing my donor. He was young and very healthy, very strong. It was perfect, just what I was hoping for. A dream kidney."
Occasionally, cadaver kidneys are purchased on the black market, most notably in China, where the organs of executed prisoners are sold, but it is living sellers who are usually demanded. With good reason. "A person who receives a living-donor kidney has a reasonable hope of a lifetime of kidney function," says Richard Rohrer, the chief of transplant surgery at New England Medical Center in Boston. "A person with a cadaveric kidney has a reasonable hope of a decade of kidney function." The median survival length of a kidney transplanted from a cadaver is about 11 years; from a living donor, it's more than 20 years.
There are rampant rumors, buzzing about the Internet, that to satisfy this desire for living donors, people are sometimes robbed of their kidneys. A victim is drugged, one story goes, and then wakes up, sans kidney, in a bathtub filled with ice. This crime has never been documented anywhere in the world, not even once. Other stories, also false, involve children being snatched off the streets in Brazil or South Africa or Guatemala by "medical agents" in black vans. In truth, there is actually a global surplus of kidneys -- sellers in India and Iraq literally line up at hospitals, often willing to part with a kidney for less than $1,000 -- and therefore no need to steal any.
Moshe told his broker he'd get the money. At the time, he was working for the City of Jerusalem as a municipal sanitation inspector. He'd managed to keep his job while on dialysis. He told his coworkers about his desire to purchase a kidney, and a fund was established. More than 700 city employees donated, raising nearly $100,000. Moshe took out a bank loan to cover the rest. Then, a month after the original phone call, he informed his broker that the money was ready. The broker said they'd meet a week later at the Tel Aviv Hilton, and everything would be arranged.
At the Hilton, the broker told Moshe, "We've found a perfect donor for you; he fits you like a brother." Moshe was traveling with four companions -- his wife, his wife's sister, a friend from work and his friend's wife. They handed over the money, a bank check for $145,000, and were driven to Ben-Gurion Airport, where a chartered plane was waiting. There were no papers to sign. "Everything was done by handshake," Moshe says. It was August 1997. On the flight there were three other kidney patients, one from Italy and two other Israelis, as well as an Israeli surgeon, two nurses, a psychologist, the broker and the patients' traveling companions. It was only then, once he was aboard, that Moshe learned he'd be going to Turkey.
American dialysis patients have been significantly less eager than Israelis to enter the kidney market. Most Americans, it seems, harbor a deep-seated reluctance to engage in medical procedures done overseas. But the United States does often serve as a host country for the surgery. Foreign kidney patients occasionally arrive at U.S. hospitals with both a donor, also a foreigner, and a ready supply of cash. In the United States, there is no national transplant screening board; instead, every hospital has its own committee. Some facilities, especially those struggling financially, appear to employ a type of "don't ask, don't tell" policy when it comes to transplant surgeries on foreigners. Brokers are familiar with these hospitals and sometimes fly in pairs of buyers and sellers, who sign documents attesting that no money is changing hands.
A few Americans do go abroad for paid transplants. A man named Jim Cohan, who lives in Los Angeles, helps organize such trips. Cohan insists that "organ broker" is the wrong term for his profession. "I call myself an international transplant coordinator," he explains. He has been in the business a dozen years, he says, and has helped about 300 Americans. 
"I got into transplant coordination when I discovered how long the waiting lists were and how many people were dying," he says. According to the United Network for Organ Sharing, 2,583 Americans died last year waiting for a kidney. Worldwide, the number of annual deaths is estimated to be at least 50,000. "There are plenty of spare organs to be had in other parts of the world," Cohan says. "There's no need for a single person to die waiting for a kidney."
No person of at least some means, that is. Cohan's current price for a kidney, he says, is $125,000, all inclusive. "First, send me $500, and I'll send you an application," Cohan says. "You and your doctor fill it out. Once you're accepted into the program, you have to send me a check for $10,000. The balance is due before you leave. Usually I can get an organ in less than a month. I send people to South America, to the Philippines, to China, Singapore and South Africa. Where you go depends on what's going on in the world and what's available."
In a living-donor transaction, according to Cohan, only a small portion of the money actually goes to the person selling the organ -- as little as $800 and rarely more than $10,000. The broker, he insists, takes a modest cut, around 10 percent. The majority of the cash is paid to the surgeons. It has to be big money, or they won't be willing to risk their careers.
Cohan used to accompany some of his patients on trips. Then, in March 1999, he was arrested. He had been communicating with an Italian transplant surgeon who had expressed interest in working with him. It was a setup; when Cohan landed in Rome for a meeting, he was arrested by Italian authorities. He spent five months in prison. "They claimed I was part of an international ring," Cohan says, "but it's not true. I'm just in business for myself. So the courts let me go. There were no victims; there was no proof." The Italian courts concluded that Cohan had not broken any laws.
Since then, he no longer travels. "I do everything on the phone and on the Internet," he says. "I talk with doctors. I tell doctors about me, and doctors tell their kidney patients. I don't buy organs; I don't sell organs -- I'm really just the producer. I produce operations. I just bring all the parties together. And I've never had any of my clients die."
When Moshe's plane landed in Istanbul, there was no need to clear customs, no one asking for passports. "Everything was already taken care of," Moshe says. "The organization was like clockwork." Moshe and the other three patients were driven to a hospital -- An old hospital," Moshe says, "not modern, but very clean" -- and their family and friends were taken to a hotel. Apparently, even the specific taxi that transported Moshe and his family was prearranged. "The driver of the taxi that took me to the hospital had sold a kidney," Moshe says. "He showed me his scar. He told me he'd bought the cab with the money. He was very proud."
The transplant surgeries were performed late at night, when the hospital was on skeleton staff and fewer people could question what was going on. An entire floor of the hospital, Moshe says, was requisitioned by the transplant teams. Two transplants were completed each night, the first starting at about midnight, the second at about 4 a.m. Two surgeries were done the night after they landed; two more the following night. Moshe was the last of the four to go. The surgery to remove the seller's kidney, Moshe says, was performed by a Turkish team; the transplant surgery was completed by the Israeli physician and nurses who had flown with them. 
"As I was being prepared for surgery," Moshe says, "I saw the man who was giving me his kidney. I just glimpsed him briefly. He was in an operating room across from me. We never spoke; when I saw him, he was already asleep, at the beginning of his surgery. I wasn't nervous at all. I was about to start a new life."
As Moshe awoke from his transplant surgery, the Israeli doctor was at his bedside, grinning. "He told me, 'Congratulations, everything's great,' " Moshe says. "He said I had already urinated. The first time in four years! He said it was a complete success. But I did not feel good. I felt pain from my neck to my stomach. Then I blacked out."
Five hours later, when Moshe regained consciousness, the doctor was again at his bedside, with an entirely different expression on his face. "I said, 'Why are you looking at me like that?' And then he told me." Moshe had suffered a second heart attack, this time a major one. The other three patients were fine, but Moshe's condition was grim. His entire body was swollen. Everyone was flown back to Israel, and Moshe was rushed to the hospital. Toxins were detected in his blood stream. Five days after receiving his new kidney, Moshe was operated on again, by a different surgeon, and the kidney was removed. "The doctor told me the kidney was poisoned and dirty and black," Moshe says. Most likely, this was the result of a vascular thrombosis, in which an artery or vein linking the kidney to Moshe's body was inadvertently pinched shut. Moshe was in the hospital, recovering, for two and a half months. Never once was he contacted by the Israeli physician who performed the surgery in Turkey.
It has now been four years since Moshe's transplant trip. The other three patients who traveled with him are healthy and free of dialysis. Last year they held a reunion, a festive transplant-day party. Moshe did not attend. He is on dialysis four times a week, three and a half hours a session. "I feel tired all the time," he says. Since the trip he has been unable to work, and he still owes money on the loan he took out to pay the broker. He is 47 years old. "I thought about suing," Moshe says. "I wanted my money back. But there was no contract, nothing." Even the discharge papers from the Turkish hospital were carefully prepared -- they are on a plain sheet of paper with no address or telephone number. "There is no way for me to prove where I've been and who performed the surgery," he says.
Still, Moshe contacted a lawyer, who began the proceedings for a medical malpractice suit. Almost immediately, Moshe was contacted by the broker. The broker made him an offer: Drop the suit and whenever you want, we'll take you abroad again, no charge. Next time, promised the broker, there will be no mistakes. Moshe accepted the deal. "I'm still not ready to go," he says, "but dialysis is killing me." Because of his heart attacks, he's no longer eligible for the official Israeli waiting list. The broker's offer is his only chance for a transplant. "One day," he says, "when I'm prepared, I think I'll want to try again." 
If you ask Michael Friedlaender to discuss Moshe's case, he will tell you that the experience is a perfect example of why kidney sales should finally be legalized. Friedlaender is a nephrologist at Hadassah University Hospital in Jerusalem; he treated Moshe both before and after his trip to Turkey. He is also one of the world's most outspoken physicians on the issue of organ sales. In 1999, at a conference in Denmark, Friedlaender made the first public recommendation by an Israeli doctor that the laws governing organ sales ought to be changed.
"What's happening now is absurd," Friedlaender says. "Airplanes are leaving every week. In the last few years, I've seen 300 of my patients go abroad and come back with new kidneys. Some are fine, some are not -- it's a free-for-all. Instead of turning our backs on this, instead of leaving our patients exposed to unscrupulous treatment by uncontrolled free enterprise, we as physicians must see how this can be legalized and regulated."
A decade ago, Friedlaender says, he, like most physicians, was "fairly violently opposed" to the notion of selling organs. Then, in the mid-90's, his Arab dialysis patients suddenly began showing up in his clinic with new transplants. They'd been going to Iraq. Next, his Jewish patients began traveling, some to Turkey, some to former Soviet republics, and returning a week later with fresh kidneys. While there have been a few fatalities and a couple of disasters, like Moshe's, Friedlaender discovered that the illegal transplants actually seemed better, in some ways, than the legal ones. When he compared his illegally transplanted patients with those transplanted in his own hospital, Friedlaender found that the percentage of illegal transplants still functioning after one year was, in fact, slightly higher than his own hospital's success rate -- and that of many U.S. hospitals. The difference, he says, is attributable to the benefits of transplanting kidneys from living donors.
"After I realized that," Friedlaender says, "I softened my stance. Examining those 300 patients brought me down from my high horse of ethics. Now I'm more practical. My patients don't want my opinion on whether or not buying a kidney is moral -- they want to know if it's safe. And I have to say that it is. It's as safe as having a transplant at a U.S. hospital. I realized that I had no right to actively stop my patients from going. I realized that it may be harming them not to go. So when they ask, I tell them, 'Yes, you should go.' "
The current system of organ donation without remuneration, says Friedlaender, is a failure. Between 1990 and 1999, despite numerous marketing efforts trying to persuade people to sign donor cards, the U.S. organ waiting lists grew five times as fast as the number of organs donated. By the end of this decade, it is estimated that the average wait for a kidney will exceed 10 years. Even the more optimistic proponents of xenotransplantation -- that is, transplanting from animals into humans, a procedure that could end organ scarcities -- admit that such operations may be several decades away. It could be even longer before genetically manufactured organs are available.
As donated organs have remained difficult to procure, transplant operations have become safer and easier. The development in the early 1980's of the powerful antirejection drug cyclosporin changed transplants from risky, experimental procedures into common, highly successful ones. "We're now at the point," Friedlaender says, "where it's really not very complex to match organs. It's no more elaborate than getting a blood transfusion. If sales were legalized, it would not be difficult to make sure people were buying clean, well-matched kidneys."
Though Friedlaender is not directly involved with any of Israel's so-called transplant tourism, he is familiar with a physician who has repeatedly been accused by the Israeli media, including one of the nation's leading daily papers, Ha'aretz, of participating in hundreds of overseas transplants, many of them in Turkey. The surgeon's name is Zaki Shapira. "Shapira is a mastermind," Friedlaender says. "He's made a big business out of this. I'm revolted by the amount of money he's making, but not by what he's doing. He's helped a lot of patients. A lot of people owe their lives to him."
Shapira, who is also the chief of transplantation at Beilinson Medical Center, one of Israel's largest hospitals, refused to speak with me. However, a lawyer who is very familiar with his activities -- a lawyer who insisted on anonymity -- estimates that Shapira goes overseas with patients "more than twice a month." Shapira, she says, "doesn't feel as though he is bound by national laws if these laws do not suit him. He arrived at the conclusion that if he didn't do something to stop people from dying on dialysis, then nobody would." It's unclear, she adds, which laws Shapira has broken, what the potential punishment might be and where he might be subject to jurisdiction. 
Shapira's activities have been investigated by the Israeli Ministry of Health, but he has never been charged with wrongdoing. "Everybody knows what Dr. Shapira is doing, though we haven't been able to prove it," says Simon Glick, a Ministry of Health official who worked on the Shapira investigation. "There's not enough evidence. The patients won't testify because he's saved their lives. We had the police involved, but they threw up their hands at the whole thing. I think Dr. Shapira should be brought to trial, but I'll bet he never will. Sometimes it seems to me that transplantation is as much a moral failure as it is a medical success."
When asked to examine the issue from the other side -- from the point of view of people selling their kidneys -- Friedlaender admits that he worries about the exploitation of the world's poor populations but that he doesn't feel right telling people what they can or cannot do with their bodies. "Medically," he says, "there is no evidence to show that donating a kidney endangers a person's health in any significant way."
Of the half-dozen studies performed on donors, including a 20-year follow-up, none have revealed any increased mortality. Health-insurance companies do not raise their rates for kidney donors. "We allow people to give up a kidney for no payment at all," Friedlaender says. "Why won't we allow it for pay?" After all, Friedlaender points out, everyone else in the transaction profits -- the doctors, the hospital, the nurses and of course the recipient. "Why," he wonders, "does the person losing the most have to do it for free?"
If kidney sales were legalized, he claims, brokers and rogue physicians would be out of business, and more money could flow to the sellers. Friedlaender's ideas for a specific legalization plan mirror those proposed by other Israeli and American lawyers and medical ethicists. To start with, all organ sales would be arranged through a national regulatory body (in the United States, there would be several regional centers). A potential seller would register with the regulatory body and would be contacted when his or her kidney was needed. Criteria for the allotment of live-donor kidneys would be no different than the current system of cadaveric-organ distribution; that is, based on the length of time a patient has waited, the quality of the organ match and the direness of the patient's need. The patient and the seller would never meet. The reduction in the number of dialysis patients would yield financial savings that the regulatory body would divide, allowing the seller to be well remunerated and, of equal importance, the recipient to not have to pay for either the organ or the surgery. Payment to the seller would be made either in cash -- $25,000 has been discussed, paid through the regulatory body -- or via an indirect method, like a reduced income tax rate or free health insurance. While sellers would almost certainly come from poorer populations, at least the recipients, under this plan, would include both the poor and the rich.
Depriving the sellers of an opportunity to profit, says Friedlaender, is an unjustifiable form of protectiveness: "It implies that the sellers are ignorant and that they are endangering themselves. I believe it is paternalistic for us to judge the motivations and values of other people and other cultures." It's already legal, he notes, to sell semen and plasma and ova. And surrogate motherhood, also legal, carries far more risk, statistically, than kidney removal. In a recent paper titled "The Case for Allowing Kidney Sales," published in the British medical journal The Lancet, eight physicians from four nations write, "If the rich are free to engage in dangerous sports for pleasure, or dangerous jobs for high pay, it is difficult to see why the poor who take the lesser risk of kidney selling for greater rewards -- perhaps saving relatives' lives, or extricating themselves from poverty and debt -- should be thought so misguided as to need saving from themselves."
"Paternalism," says Nancy Scheper-Hughes, "is the backbone of the medical profession. Medicine is all about care, and if you toss that out and reduce patients to a collection of free-market consumers, then doctors will lose whatever vestiges of moral authority they still have." Scheper-Hughes is a professor of medical anthropology at the University of California at Berkeley, and a co-founder of a group called Organs Watch. Under the auspices of Organs Watch, Scheper-Hughes has spent three years traveling the world while investigating the organ market, focusing on human rights implications and violations of national laws. Her work in Israel was instrumental in exposing many of the nation's improprieties.
As Michael Friedlaender's views have gained acceptance -- a survey in the United States by the National Kidney Foundation, cited in a recent issue of The Journal of Medical Ethics, showed that nearly half the respondents favored some form of compensation for organ donors -- Scheper-Hughes has become increasingly alarmed. Kidney sellers, she says, are treated not as humans but as commodities. "These people have been reduced to bags of spare parts," she says. "For doctors to justify this by saying, 'Well, the seller is getting something out of it too,' is unethical. Turning one person's poverty into an opportunity for someone else is a violation of the most basic standards of human ethics. Doctors should not be involved in transactions that pit one social class against another -- organ getters versus organ givers. Doctors should be protectors of the body, and perhaps we should look for better ways of helping the destitute than dismantling them."
Scheper-Hughes remains unconvinced that selling a kidney is actually a low-risk activity. She says she feels that the chief tenet of the Hippocratic Oath -- do no harm -- is being violated. "In these deals you are certainly harming someone else," she says. "You are harming the sellers." The argument that the slight harm to the sellers is more than offset by the lifesaving potential on the other end of the transaction is also troubling to Scheper-Hughes. "I call this 'increasing the net good,' " she says. "Is this really the kind of world we want to live in -- one based on utilitarian ethics in which net gain to one relatively privileged population allows them to claim property rights over the bodies of the disadvantaged?" 
Further, she points out, every study demonstrating that kidney donation does not compromise health has been conducted in a wealthy nation. "It is not exactly clear that poor people can really live safely with one kidney," she says. People who sell their kidneys, she adds, usually live in abject conditions and face greater-than-average threats to their health, including poor diets, low-quality drinking water and increased risk of infectious disease, all of which can easily compromise the remaining kidney.
The actual kidney-removal surgery may also not be as gentle as advertised. Even Michael Friedlaender admits that removal surgery is a more painful procedure than transplantation. After a surgeon has carved through skin, fat and several layers of muscle, getting at a kidney sometimes necessitates the partial extraction of the 12th rib. Short-term complications have been documented in nearly one in five kidney-donation surgeries. Rather than moving toward legalization, Scheper-Hughes says, perhaps what is needed is stronger enforcement of existing laws. She points out that almost no one, worldwide, has ever been convicted of organ trafficking.
There is further concern about the notion that sellers are making an autonomous choice. Lawrence Cohen, an associate professor of medical anthropology at Berkeley and the other founder of Organs Watch, has done much of his fieldwork in India. He recently studied 30 kidney sellers in the city of Chennai. Twenty-seven of them were women. Some of their husbands, Cohen learned, made it clear that if the men had to do heavy labor, it was only fair that the women contribute to the family income by selling a kidney. Cohen observed that in none of the cases did selling an organ significantly improve the family's fortunes in the long run. "If only I had three kidneys," one of the women told Cohen, "then I could sell two and things might be better."
"Nobody seems concerned about the sellers," Scheper-Hughes says. "The buyers are supported by doctors, but no one represents the sellers. Nobody solicits their opinions. In this market, they have become an invisible population. Someone needs to listen to them. What do they have to say?"
At about the same time that Moshe Tati was busy raising money to pay his broker, a 44-year-old man named Mehmet Piskin entered a hospital in suburban Istanbul in order to have his blood and tissue tested so that he might sell his kidney. Mehmet had a steady job, collecting garbage for the Istanbul Department of Sanitation, but his salary was low. His health insurance did not adequately cover his family. He was living in a one-room apartment with his wife and three children, and his youngest child, Ahmet, was suffering from a degenerative bone disease. Ahmet's knees and elbows were gradually calcifying; already, at age 4, his growth had nearly stopped. He had difficulty walking. A series of corrective surgeries could alleviate the problem, but they would cost Mehmet nearly $20,000, a sum he could never imagine saving.
It was Mehmet's neighbor, in an apartment down the hall, who first suggested the sale. "One day," Mehmet recalls, "my neighbor knocked on my door. He said to me, 'Do you want to save your boy's life?' I said, 'Of course I do.' He told me that if I gave up a kidney I could save the boy."
In recent months, Mehmet had noticed a distinct change in his neighbor's fortunes. The neighbor had once been employed as a night watchman. Then, rather suddenly, he'd purchased a new car and opened his own business, selling men's clothing. Mehmet asked his neighbor if he had sold a kidney. "He told me he had," Mehmet says. "He told me he'd been in debt, and that selling his kidney had saved his life. He said the operation was safe. He said maybe I'd be slowed a little for a month, but then I'd be back to normal." He also admitted to Mehmet that he was now earning money by finding other people willing to sell. "I told him," Mehmet says, "that I needed time to think things over."
Mehmet thought for three months. "I realized I had no other alternatives," he says. "So I said O.K. I said yes. I never discussed anything with my wife. I just decided on my own."
His neighbor took Mehmet to a private hospital on the Asian side of Istanbul. When they walked in, everybody seemed to know the neighbor. "It was like we were celebrities," Mehmet says. "There were 100 other patients waiting, and we just went right in." At the hospital, Mehmet met with a doctor and underwent blood and tissue tests. "We talked about the price right there in the hospital," Mehmet says. "We bargained a little, but I was firm. I said I wanted $30,000, and I wasn't going to take anything less. They agreed. I was told I'd be paid in the hospital, after the operation. There was no contract. Nothing was written down. It was a handshake. I trusted them -- it was my neighbor, and it was a doctor. Of course I trusted them."
Three days later, Mehmet's neighbor knocked on his door. The surgery, the neighbor said, would take place tomorrow; he said they'd go to the hospital together. In the morning, Mehmet called into work sick. He was given a private hospital room. Elsewhere on the floor he saw the other sellers -- all Turks, all poor people" -- and the buyers -- at least a dozen Israelis, on dialysis machines, waiting for kidneys." (Wealthy Turkish kidney patients are also involved in the market; they tend to travel to India for surgery.) The nurses told Mehmet not to eat or drink. 
Shortly before he was taken into surgery, he wrote a letter. "It was a just-in-case letter," he explains. "In case something happened to me. I asked whoever found the letter to contact my wife. I put down her name and our address. I wrote, 'Please give all the money to my wife, but do not tell her that I've given a kidney.' I wrote, 'Tell her that I've been in a traffic accident and have passed away, and that this is the blood money from the driver that hit me.' I put the letter under my pillow."
Then he was rolled into surgery. He caught only a glimpse of the person who was buying his kidney. They never exchanged a word. The doctor told him that the Israeli receiving his kidney was very sick and about to die. The doctor told him that he was saving a life. The last thing Mehmet remembers before his surgery is music. "There was a stereo in the operating room," he recalls. "Foreign music was playing. Disco-dancing music. Loud. The doctors were dancing to it. One doctor was dancing with a scalpel in his hand. I had to laugh. A doctor asked me, 'Why are you laughing?' I said: 'I'm happy. I'm happy because I will save my boy.' "
The surgery lasted a little less than three hours. "When I woke up I had severe pain in my right side," Mehmet recalls. "I told the doctor about the pain and he gave me a shot. I felt better, and then I called my wife. I told her I'd been in an accident. I told her I was hit by a car while I was walking across the street."
Mehmet's wife, Sebnem, rushed to the hospital and stayed with her husband for two days while he recovered. "I came into the hospital room," Sebnem says, "and I saw him lying there with so many machines and I thought, that can't be a car accident. Mehmet insisted it was. Then I saw the envelope, and I knew something was happening." The morning of Mehmet's release, a doctor came into the room and handed Mehmet an envelope. Inside, in U.S. currency, in crisp hundreds, was $10,000.
"The doctor said to me, 'When you come back to have your stitches removed, we'll pay you the rest.' I said, 'Why not now?' He said: 'It's a Saturday. The banks are closed.' And so I left the hospital with the $10,000."
On the cab ride home, Mehmet told his wife the truth. "I'm still angry at him," she says. "One evening, a few weeks before the surgery, he told me that we'd be able to save the boy. I asked him how, and all he said was, 'Don't worry, we will.' If he had told me what he was doing, I'd never have let him give a kidney. Never. He should have kept working. In the hospital, I heard the doctor tell Mehmet that when he came back he'd get the rest of the money. After Mehmet explained everything to me, I said to him right in the cab, 'You left that money behind, and now you'll never see it.' "
His wife was correct. When Mehmet returned to the hospital to have his stitches removed, the doctor was not there. His neighbor said not to worry. Mehmet phoned a dozen times, but the doctor did not return any of his calls. Meanwhile, the recovery time forced Mehmet to quit his job. He and his family left Istanbul and moved to the small farming village, about 100 miles away, where Mehmet had grown up. He had wanted to return home, and now he could. He spent most of the money fixing up a small house. He never spoke to the doctor again. The last time he telephoned his former neighbor, the neighbor told him that he'd pay Mehmet the rest of his money only if Mehmet's younger brother, Mustafa, also agreed to donate a kidney. When his neighbor said that, Mehmet hung up the phone.
A few months later, a group of Turkish television journalists, working with the police, set up a sting operation and captured on film a Turkish surgeon named Yusuf Sonmez as he was about to begin what he thought was an illegal transplantation. Sonmez has been linked by Organs Watch with Zaki Shapira, the Israeli surgeon who has been implicated in the organs market. After Sonmez was filmed, he was arrested by the police and held for three days but was not charged with any crime -- money had not yet changed hands, and there was no proof that it would. Punishment was left up to the Turkish medical association. Sonmez was banned from practicing medicine for six months. He has since been restored to full medical standing. Sonmez dismisses the whole thing as a setup.
Mehmet, meanwhile, has never regained his health. It has been four years since the operation. "I'm not the same person," he says. "I swell up like a pregnant woman. I can't sleep. I have not been able to work; my health has not allowed it. I go from place to place looking for work, and everyone says no. The economy is very bad, they tell me, and there are younger and healthier people to hire. The people of this village, they look down on me because of what I've done. I feel helpless."
An American surgeon, after being told of Mehmet's symptoms, suggested that Mehmet might suffer either from nerve-entrapment syndrome -- in which a nerve was mistakenly caught in one of his internal sutures -- or a type of hernia that can result if one of the layers of abdominal muscle the surgeon sliced through did not heal properly. Mehmet has not gone to see a doctor about his pain. He can't. All of the money from the operation is gone. Mehmet's wife is the family's sole wage earner. Sebnem works six days a week in a refrigerator factory. She earns about $150 a month. The family can't even afford electricity -- instead, they have illicitly tapped into a power pole. Their son's bone disease is still attacking and deforming his body. Ahmet's wrists and knees are both nearly fused. He has a new growth on his chest. He rarely attends school.
"Everything is worse now than before," Sebnem says. "Mehmet was a healthy person, and now he is like this. Nothing is right. The wages have not been paid at the refrigerator factory in three months. Ahmet is crippled. We've basically been reduced to begging."
The kidney market is an interesting business. It's a business in which the satisfied customers keep quiet. Actually, not entirely quiet. Certainly they do not like to advertise what they have done -- it is, after all, illegal -- but they will talk with other kidney patients. This is how information is passed; by word of mouth, transplantee to dialysis patient. This is how Moshe Tati first learned about the broker. The business, like a back-room poker game, seems continually on the move. The place to go is always changing -- first India, then China, then Russia, then Turkey. Lately, the kidney trade is said to be phasing out in Turkey and setting up shop in Moldova. Romania, too, seems to be an emerging player.
According to Friedlaender, though, one market trumps the rest. This market, he says, appears to offer kidney transplants performed by excellent surgeons, with careful screening of sellers, extraordinary postsurgical care and a success rate that evidently rivals even the finest U.S. hospitals. The program seems absent of false promises and persistent rip-offs. The price is a bargain. Some people have even idealized this program as a model of how a legalized system might one day function. It's located in Iraq.
Michael Friedlaender credits the family of a young Palestinian named Sami (who spoke on condition that his family name not be used) for proving the effectiveness of the Iraqi system. Sami's story begins on the afternoon of Jan. 30, 1999, when Sami, then a 22-year-old student at Golden West College in Southern California was involved in a car accident. When he was treated for his injuries, the doctor discovered that Sami had a severe kidney problem. It had nothing to do with the accident -- it was, Sami was told, a genetic condition. He was immediately placed on dialysis and told that his siblings should be examined as soon as possible for signs of the same illness.
Sami had been living with his extended family in the United States and was in the process of applying for citizenship. He phoned home, to the West Bank, and his five sisters and two brothers were checked at Hadassah University Hospital. An older sister, Rana, and a younger sister, Samia, were also found to have chronic renal failure. Rana, who is now 27 years old, was the sicker of the two. She vividly recalls her first trip to Hadassah: "I went into the dialysis center and I saw the machines and I started to cry. I wasn't prepared. I saw people with tubes going into their neck and others with tubes going into their stomach. I saw the scars that the needles leave. I wanted to try something else; anything else."
A kidney patient mentioned to Rana that if she wanted to avoid dialysis, the best place to go was Iraq. The family made a few phone calls. Rana's father was given the name of a private hospital in Baghdad and told to simply show up. No broker was needed. While Rana still had limited function in her kidneys, she and her parents decided to travel.
Sami, meanwhile, was on dialysis three times a week in California, and on the U.S. transplant waiting list. He dropped out of college. "I was told to be prepared for a three-year wait, minimum," he says. He heard about his sister and the trip to Iraq and promptly left the United States and went home to the West Bank.
Rana was gone for 40 days. She returned in excellent condition, with a healthy, functioning kidney. The total price, for six weeks in a private hospital room, a furnished apartment for her parents, all medical fees and the payment to the seller was $20,000. She never had to endure a minute of dialysis. Her sister, Samia, went next, last February. She, too, was gone more than a month and returned with a perfect kidney. Samia, as well, never once had to be punctured by a dialysis needle.
Finally, last September, it was Sami's turn. He and his parents took a taxi into Jordan. They spent a night in Amman then hired a car for the 10-hour trip to Baghdad. Sami was placed in a hospital room on a floor that was entirely reserved for illegal kidney transplants. On his floor he met people from Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, Algeria, Libya and Morocco. His parents stayed in a nice apartment on the hospital grounds, with a full kitchen and maid service. When they arrived at the hospital they stopped at a special foreign-transplant office and paid the whole amount -- $20,000, cash, U.S. currency. Sami's father says that he was told that about $2,000 of this fee went to the seller. For a manual laborer in the Middle East, this represents as much as a decade's salary in one shot.
On Sami's second day in Iraq, he was introduced to his donor. The donor's name was Essam. He was 24 years old, a Palestinian refugee residing in a Jordanian village. Essam was living with his parents and four brothers and one sister in a single room. The family had no money. Essam's father was very sick and had gone blind. The Jordanian government does not provide welfare for Palestinian refugees. Essam, as the oldest son, felt that he had to help his family. So he took the bus to Baghdad. "He was engaged to be married," Sami says, "and he said the money would aid his family and allow him to start his married life. He said he was happy to help me."
Sami and Essam spent two weeks together, while both were carefully screened and prepared for surgery. "The doctors are very cautious," Sami says. "If they doubt the donor's medical condition even 1 percent, they don't take him. The kidney has to be clean." Essam was accepted as a seller, then had to sign a document attesting that he was a volunteer.
The sellers, Sami explains, live on a separate floor of the hospital. They are all men, all young. Most come from poor parts of Egypt or Jordan or Iraq. There is never a shortage of sellers. They arrive at the hospital and are tested, then they live at the hospital until a buyer with a good match appears. "The sellers' floor is like a dorm," Sami says. "Four guys to a room. The donors were always joking and playing cards. It was fun to go down there and hang out. I felt like Essam and I became brothers."
Occasionally, Sami and Essam left the hospital and toured Baghdad. Sami's parents took photos. There is a photo of Sami and Essam, arms around each other, at the Baghdad Zoo. Essam is a thin young man with a stubbly mustache and opaque eyes. There is another photo of them at a cafeteria. In a third picture they are dressed in light blue hospital gowns, emerging from an elevator just minutes before their surgeries.
Both operations went smoothly. Afterward, Sami spent 15 days in isolation, allowed no visitors. "I had to talk on the phone with my parents," he says. Paid transplantation is illegal in Iraq, but the government is either unaware that this is going on, or, more likely, the appropriate people are paid off. In any case, the patient care is exemplary. All other illegal transplant programs discharge their patients almost immediately after surgery, exposing them to infectious hazards and leaving the patients' home countries to handle the resulting complications. Essam, too, according to Sami, was provided with ample recovery time. Then Essam returned to Jordan and Sami to the West Bank, where Michael Friedlaender is providing his after-care.
"After seeing the results," Friedlaender says, "I have to say if you're going to do this, you should go to Iraq." According to Sami, the hospital where he bought his kidney performs 100 illegal transplants a year, and there are at least six other hospitals in Baghdad with similar programs. "They are all in communication with one another," Sami says, "to swap sellers, to find the best matches." It's not just for people from the Arab world, he insists. "They are very nice there. Very welcoming. It's a humanitarian thing." 
Sami and his two sisters are doing well. "I'm feeling strong -- strong and happy," Sami says. He and Essam have kept in contact. They sometimes write letters. "In my last letter," Sami says, "I invited him here for a visit, to come stay with me." Essam, according to Sami, is fine. "He used some of the money to support his family," Sami says, "and some to rent his own place." Then, says Sami, he used the remainder of the money to pay for his wedding. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patient: Moshe Tati was mired near the bottom of an Israeli transplant list -- a black-market kidney was his only hope.; Donor: To raise money for an operation for his son, Mehmet Piskin sold a kidney. He did not tell Sebnem, his wife, until after the surgery.; Advocate: Dr. Michael Friedlaender, once opposed to buying organs, says kidney sales should be legalized. (Chris Anderson/Aurora for The New York Times); Broker: James Cohan, based in Los Angeles, arranges kidney transplants for American clients. (Alyson Aliano for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIALYSIS (92%); KIDNEY DISEASE (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); ORGAN TRAFFICKING (89%); ORGAN DONATION (89%); ETHICS (88%); BIOETHICS (78%); LITIGATION (74%); HEART DISEASE (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) KIDNEYS; TRANSPLANTS; ETHICS 

PERSON: FINKEL, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (90%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (78%); CHINA (66%) ISRAEL; TURKEY; CHINA; RUSSIA; IRAQ; INDIA

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



710 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES; 
In San Diego, Eating Well Not Far From the Sea

BYLINE:  By BRYAN MILLER; BRYAN MILLER, a former restaurant critic for The Times, is restaurant editor for Citysearch.com.

 BODY:
UNTIL five or six years ago, the notion of going to San Diego for fine dining was like heading to Oklahoma for a vineyard tour. For all of its physical beauty, myriad nautical attractions and spectacular growth (it is now the second largest city in California), it couldn't shake its image as a glorified Navy port.
 Today, however, San Diego's economy is widely diversified -- among other things, it is one of the country's leading telecommunications centers -- and, as visitors will find, more cosmopolitan. With this sophistication has come an impressive fleet of new restaurants, many of them in the charming coastal village of La Jolla, which is part of San Diego although some 12 miles north of downtown. 

Tapenade
Vichy-born Jean-Michel Diot is one of the East Coast transplants leading the charge as San Diego evolves from a white bread culinary backwater into one of California's most vibrant dining scenes. During his 10-year stint in Manhattan Mr. Diot won plaudits for his progressive classic cuisine, especially at Park Bistro, near 28th Street. In 1997 he moved to San Diego, opening Tapenade the following year.
The setting of his new venture mirrors his style of cooking -- bright, clean and colorful. The dining room, warmed by dark wainscoting and with a high sunlit ceiling, is cheerful and stylish. Among the menu highlights are plump and earthy wild mushroom ravioli drizzled with truffle oil, a lovely butternut-ginger soup (a special), and excellent roasted oysters with a frothy sauce meuniere tinged with vanilla. Tapenade's wine offerings are fairly straightforward, with an emphasis on California. The whites tend to be pricey, the reds a bit more affordable.
Emblematic of Mr. Diot's classic background is a delightful salmon encrusted with salted parsley along with white beans and a mild mustard sauce. Another earthy winner is his rounds of buttery veal loin with a heady fresh morel sauce and a faintly sweet butternut squash mousseline. And there is a bracing civet of richly flavored wild duck served with juniper-scented tagliatelle.
Desserts are superb, from the classic oeufs a la neige, to coconut glazed chocolate tart. And service is as starched and proficient as anything you would find in Burgundy.

Barbarella
A short drive from the center of La Jolla is the snug hamlet of La Jolla Shores -- known for, among other attractions, La Jolla's most scenic public beach. Strolling along the main shopping street, Avenida de la Playa, a friend and I happened upon this alluring cottage-style restaurant.
Barbara Beltaire, the jaunty and sociable owner, opened the place last year, and it has been a hit from the start. The small, L-shaped dining room sports splashy modern paintings by local artists -- and one by the renowned artist and sculptor Niki de Saint Phalle -- an unglamorous open kitchen, and a curious six-foot sculpture of a corkscrew. From a pleasant little outdoor terrace you can monitor the village's comings and goings.
I perused the wine list, comprising mostly California vintages, and was surprised by the bargain prices: some selections were close to retail prices (most restaurants charge more than double retail).
"I really love wine," Mrs. Beltaire remarked when I commented on the way out on the exceptional prices, "and I really want our customers to drink it and enjoy it here." That we did, with a $29 bottle of 1999 Hess Select chardonnay.
The compact menu centers on cracker-thin pizzas (we tried a gutsy special of fennel sausage, mozzarella and haricots verts), assorted pastas, and a mixed bag of entrees. If you order the fritti of the day you might get, as in our case, terrific fried oysters and wax beans. They come out in a little silver megaphone lined with butcher paper -- a nice accompaniment to a Roquefort, endive and beet salad with rare seared strips of beef.
The dinner menu offers straightforward dishes like seared salmon with a Nicoise olive sauce, rigatoni with spicy lamb sausage, and grilled fish of the day.
One daunting dessert, a house specialty, is a giant crepe adorned with slices of ripe papaya and black raspberries, flanked by a cumulous cloud of whipped cream. Our buoyant server was so congenial and animated that we wanted to take her along on the rest of our trip.

Baleen
One of the best dining secrets in San Diego is Baleen, a tropical-theme restaurant at the Paradise Point Resort, on Mission Bay, a few miles south of La Jolla. Swank resorts like this generally are not known for their food and don't normally attract outside diners: yet nine-month-old Baleen deserves wider recognition.
If you are looking for water dining, this is it: the high tide literally washes under the wooden deck. The palmy main room, formerly the resort's presidential suite, has a sweeping view of Mission Bay and the verdant grounds around it.
We dropped in for lunch on a luminous spring afternoon (low tide) and had the place practically to ourselves. There is a quality wine-by-the-glass menu, and I chose a wonderfully fresh and mildly fruity 1999 Kunde Estate chardonnay. The bottle list is on the high side, especially among whites; less so for reds.
Among recommended starters are two small crab cakes, browned and brittle on the outside, and stoked with poblano chiles, corn and sweet peppers. Also on the plate was a tasty mold of tomato and chopped avocado. Another appealing dish is tuna tataki -- a cylinder of pepper-crusted tuna wrapped around briny strips of marinated seaweed and pickled vegetables.
Our well-informed waiter recommended the tempura of halibut sandwich, a clever idea, as the thick steak was cleanly fried, perfectly cooked and served with a red-onion-and-fennel cole slaw. Also worth trying is the fettuccine with a fresh-tomato-and-garlic sauce and, on top, four seared jumbo shrimp standing at attention.
The Key lime pie is right on; or try the curiously named "hangover" cake, an Alaska pipeline of dark chocolate mousse, milk chocolate mousse and flourless chocolate cake. What does "hangover cake" mean, I asked our waiter. "I have absolutely no idea," he said.

Brockton Villa Restaurant
Restaurant critics are not generally fond of hearty breakfasts, which, for most, are a recuperative inter regnum before the day's caloric campaigns.
But friends from San Diego insisted that we rise early and start our day on the oceanfront veranda of the Brockton Villa. Dating back to 1894, the cottage has a long and architecturally intriguing history. Take a walk through the vintage dining rooms (check out the old fireplace inlaid with abalone shells), where many tables have a sweeping view of La Jolla Cove. We sat outside, and the experience rekindled my interest in breakfast. French toast, rich and eggy, arrives puffed up like a souffle, with a lovely hint of orange and vanilla. Any of the omelets are a good bet, as are the steamed scrambled eggs, aerated by an espresso machine.
The bouncy young servers couldn't be nicer. Brockton Village serves lunch as well as a cross-cultural dinner (Moroccan halibut, paella, rack of lamb) daily.

Top o' the Cove
This is the big-deal, big-ticket, best-known restaurant in La Jolla, and it has been for 48 years. It's one of those hushed, clubby places, all gleaming oak, with cushioned romantic nooks, soft lighting and handsome oil paintings. If you go at lunchtime reserve one of the window tables facing the ocean.
The dinner menu carries middle-of-the-road classics: rack of lamb, tarragon roasted chicken, duck a l'orange, tournedos with green peppercorns and Cognac. Amy opted for a light starter, the sashimi au poivre, consisting of nicely seared tuna with a snappy pepper crust; our other starter, bison ravioli, sounded more exotic than it tasted. It could have been hamburger for all we could tell, and the viscous veal stock sauce with sun-dried tomatoes further muddled the effort. Try instead the lusty smoked-corn soup.
Not surprisingly, Top o' the Cove has a wine list the size of a small city phone book. Bargains are few, although I found one of Europe's best white wines -- the lush and beautifully balanced 1997 Domaine Zind-Humbrecht pinot gris ($52).
Having been a fan of elk for some time, which is far more flavorful and tender than farm-raised venison, I was delighted to see it as a special. I was not disappointed. The chop was cooked medium rare and served over an intense and syrupy pinot noir sauce. We also went with a seared swordfish steak topped with a room temperature black bean sauce, and whipped purple potatoes. As one would hope with the Cove's prices, service is flawless.
There is a more casual restaurant on the roof, called the Cafe at Top o' the Cove, which has a crow's nest view of the ocean.
Desserts are first rate, too, especially the chunky bread pudding with cinnamon ice cream, and the chocolate box filled with white chocolate mousse.

Hash House a Go Go
Opened 10 months ago in the gentrifying Hillcrest section of San Diego, a short hop from downtown, the culinary theme here is, according to our waiter, Midwestern fusion. The heartland is evoked with hometown dishes like a fried chicken -- nearly the whole bird -- stacked over I-don't-know-how-many waffles studded with bacon strips and slathered with hot maple-caramel sauce. The West Coast contribution is sage in the chicken batter. The meal was served in a porcelain canoe so long that my banquette mate had to shuffle to the left. One would be hard-pressed to come up with a more gastronomically profligate creation. We ate most of it.
I couldn't tell if this was a puckish prank on the part of the chef and owner, Indiana-reared Craig Beardslee, or just a forceful statement about big food's being "in" again. The dining room is a post-modern style roadside cafe done in sandy Southwestern tones, with brushed aluminum tables, wide banquettes, and black-and-white photos of farm machinery.
One is not prone to carry on polite conversation when you are faced with a towering lean-to of delectable pork loin over a Vesuvius of blue cheese mashed potatoes and roasted tomatoes. Growing out of the potato summit was a little Christmas tree of rosemary the length of my hand. This decorative leitmotif could be seen all over the dining room.
The good-natured servers, who seemed as amused by the portions as we were, veered us in the direction of the crusty blue-crab cakes, meaty and well seasoned, along with mashed butternut squash and a chili mayonnaise. Also worth consideration is the rack of lamb stew, glistening with butter and garlic, with cornbread and goat cheese -- and served in a cast-iron skillet.
There is a small, fairly priced wine list. We went with a vinous mutt called Evolution, made from a blend of nine grape varieties by the Sokol Blosser Winery in Oregon. It's a sharp, fresh wine that cuts through this husky fare. Well, almost.
For dessert we slogged through a nice buttery almond bread pudding, then moved on to an ineffably rich mango cheesecake. (I'm not making this up).

Bill of fare
The following restaurants are open daily for lunch and dinner unless otherwise noted. Estimated dinner prices are for two people, with three courses and a glass a wine for each. All major credit cards are accepted.
Tapenade, 7612 Fay Avenue, La Jolla, Calif., (858) 551-7500. Dinner $120.
Barbarella, 2171 Avenida de la Playa, La Jolla Shores, (858) 454-7373. Dinner $60.
Baleen, 1404 Vacation Road, San Diego (in Paradise Point Resort on Mission Bay), (858) 490-6364. Brunch served on Sunday; closed for dinner Monday. Dinner $110. 
Brockton Villa Restaurant, 1235 Coast Boulevard, La Jolla, (858) 454-7393. Breakfast daily. Closed for dinner Monday. Breakfast for two from $12 to $15.
Top o' the Cove, 1216 Prospect Street, La Jolla, (858) 454-7779. Dinner $110.
Hash House a Go Go, 3628 Fifth Avenue, near Pennsylvania Street, San Diego, (619) 298-4646. Breakfast daily. Dinner $65.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Brockton Villa is noted for its breakfasts and its history. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)(pg. 14); On the terrace at Barbarella, where diners can watch the passing parade in La Jolla Shores. At the bar at Jean-Michel Diot's Tapenade. A lean-to of pork tenderloin at Hash House a Go Go. A raspberry pistachio napoleon at Top o' the Cove. (Photographs by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BEACHES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); PAINTING (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%) RESTAURANTS; NYTRAVEL; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) SAN DIEGO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



711 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 5-27-01: How To Get Into 'The Producers'; 
That's the Ticket

BYLINE:  By Cameron Stracher 

 BODY:
 Ever since "The Producers" was nominated for a record 15 Tonys, this impossible ticket has become, like some Broadway extravaganza, the Even More Impossible Ticket. Want to see the show? How about on Jan. 29, 2002, when a pair are available in the mezzanine through Telecharge? If you can't wait that long, drop the spouse at Sardi's and you can get a solo seat in September. Still not good enough? Then here's what can get you in tonight.

1. It's Whom You Get to Know
Every night, approximately 216 of the 1,706 available seats at the St. James theater are held by the "house," including the producers, the creative team and the stars. Matthew Broderick and Nathan Lane have one or two pairs each night. So do the show's director-choreographer, musical director and "virtually everyone on the title page" of the program, according to John Barlow, the show's publicist. (He has three pairs.) Sadly, ensemble actors, musicians and the backstage crew must share a limited number of "company" seats. "If you're Bill Clinton, we've got tickets," says Rocco Landesman, the show's lead producer. Ditto for Fidel Castro. But not George Bush, he says. Landesman should know. He holds 12 house seats and six "emergency seats." Recently, he has made room for Joe Torre but says he couldn't help Yoko Ono.

2. Cough Up the Dough
Hey, the best things in life aren't free. For a minimum of $600, ticket agencies can get you in. They buy them from wholesalers, individuals who have purchased blocks of tickets months (and sometimes years) in advance in a kind of futures market. No ticket agency, however, would promise a reporter seats. (Selling tickets for a markup is illegal in New York. That's why agencies operate out of New Jersey or Pennsylvania.) Sidewalk scalpers and well-connected limo drivers can also get you in. But be wary of "bait and switch" techniques, in which scalpers offer tickets for "tonight's" performance, then slip you two for next February instead.

3. Employ the Concierge
Kevin Higgins, a concierge at Tribeca Grand, says he gets 10 to 15 ticket inquiries a week from guests who are willing to pay a premium for seats. (He gets his tickets from brokers who service the hotel industry.)

4. Work the Charity Circuit
Charitable groups often have tickets for their supporter's use. Broadway Cares, for example, has $100 house seats that it sells to the public at twice the face value. (Half of the cost is your contribution.) A nearby Philanthropic organization may be raffling a pair tomorrow. Become a patron.

5. Try Waiting for Godot
It might seem awfully pedestrian to queue outside the theater, but it works for a handful of lucky people every day. Eighteen standing-room spots, a few unused house seats and the rare emergency return are released an hour or two before show time. But of course you'll have to arrive at daybreak. If you're serious, "bring a beach chair" and get there by 9 a.m. at the latest, Barlow advises. If you can't stand the thought of waiting curbside all day, pay an unemployed actor friend to do it and get you both tickets. Hey, it's worth the extra bucks. Cameron Stracher

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Marty Edwards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); CHARITIES (83%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (69%); MUSIC (68%); FUTURES (66%); LODGING (64%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) THEATER 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) STRACHER, CAMERON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: PRODUCERS, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



712 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
A Festival Of Safe Bets On What Is

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT 

 BODY:
AN international film festival, like the one that concluded in Cannes last week, can offer a glimpse into the future. In an immediate sense, of course, this is always the case. The Cannes International Film Festival offers the chance to see, en masse and in advance, some of the films that will be released in the coming year -- or should be, at any rate. The pleasure a critic feels at the anticipation of sharing his favorite movies with his readers is shadowed by the knowledge that he may end up talking to himself, since the best movies may not find adequate distribution, or any at all. But hope springs eternal. The happy news that films like Danis Tanovic's "No Man's Land" and Jacques Rivette's "Va Savoir" ("Who Knows?") -- both shown in the festival's main competition -- were picked up in Cannes by American distributors encourages some cautious optimism about the prospects of Tsai Ming-Liang's "What Time Is It There?" and Manoel de Oliveira's "Vou Para Casa" ("I'm Going Home"). 
 But occasionally a festival offers an inkling of the medium's artistic as well as its commercial future. Last year at Cannes -- a year with which this one was frequently and gloomily compared -- you could have seen "Dancer in the Dark," "Yi Yi," "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and "In the Mood for Love," all of which seemed to suggest new stylistic possibilities and narrative permutations bubbling up around the world. Even if you resisted some of their choices, these movies generated a frisson of newness and risk, a sense of filmmakers pushing at the boundaries of the form and looking for new perspectives on the world. 
 This year's festival -- solid, conservative, a little disappointing -- seemed to offer, in contrast, a cross-section of the cinematic status quo. Those who made the pilgrimage were not witnesses to prophecy but worshippers, as Flip Wilson used to say, in the Church of What's Happening Now. To look at the films in the main program, both in and out of competition, was to survey a familiar landscape, a map whose dominant regions are the United States, Asia (specifically Taiwan and Japan) and western Europe. (This year, there were only two films from Iran, both by eminent directors and only one, Mohsen Makhmalbaf's "Kandahar," in competition.) Except for a few wild cards and outriders, the directors competing for the top prize, the Palme D'Or, were pillars of the film establishment, international division. The field was dominated by distinguished senior members -- Jean-Luc Godard, Mr. Rivette, Mr. de Oliveira, Shohei Imamura, Ermanno Olmi -- and veterans in vigorous mid-career: Hou Hsiao-Hsien, Claire Denis, Raul Ruiz, the Coen brothers, Michael Haneke and Nanni Moretti.
It was Mr. Moretti who would triumph in the end. The victory of "The Son's Room," a modest, well-made film beloved by audiences and critics, seemed the fitting conclusion to a festival whose program favored safety over surprise. His moving story of loss and recovery, in which he plays a psychiatrist reeling from the accidental death of his teenage son, is beautifully acted and told, but its emotional scale and narrative range sometimes seem to be those of a first-rate made-for-TV movie. In one scene, Mr. Moretti's character reads his wife a poem by Raymond Carver, and at its best the film itself is as quiet, observant and self-contained as a Carver story -- a small, good thing, so to speak.
Carver was hardly the only writer to be quoted in the screening rooms of the Palais des Festivals. Indeed, the European entries were not only literary -- like good contemporary novels, they were more absorbing than thrilling, and more concerned with precise details than with grand themes -- but remarkably literate. The Continent -- or at any rate France, Italy and Austria, the setting of "The Pianist" -- appears to be populated by well-off actors, philosophers and art dealers who move from one book-stuffed room to another, speaking of Goldoni, Joyce, Shakespeare and St. Augustine.
This is not to say that their lives are happy. On the contrary, Mr. Moretti's was only one of about 10 films in competition -- close to half of the field of 22 -- that dealt, obliquely or directly, with grief, loss and melancholy. At times during the 12 days of screenings, it seemed that every morning brought a new death -- lovers, parents, brothers, children, wives, friends -- and a new chance to study the dynamics of mourning. 
One observation to be gleaned from such study is that the impact of death is felt differently in Europe and in Asia. This is not just a matter of cultural diversity, or the vagaries of individual psychology. Death and grieving, in "The Son's Room," in "Vou Para Casa" and in Marc Recha's "Pau I El Seu Germa" ("Pau and His Brother"), shatter the lives of individuals who exist in a society that is fundamentally stable, and who are therefore able to find a measure of peace and comfort, and to give audiences some catharsis. Even "The Pianist," with its shocking emotional extremity and sexual intensity, is wrapped in the tasteful satin of high culture and bourgeois politesse. While these movies present individual suffering against a background of social order and economic ease, Mr. Tsai's "What Time Is It There?" from Taiwan, Hirokazu Kore-Eda's "Distance," Shinji Aoyama's "Desert Moon" and Mr. Imamura's "Warm Water Under a Red Bridge" (all from Japan), use grief as a metaphor for social disorder and economic unease. The deaths in these movies -- of fathers or father figures, in particular -- untether the protagonists from their pasts and leave them groping toward an indistinct and unpromising future.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nanni Moretti, left, and Laura Morante in his film "The Son's Room," the top prize-winner at Cannes. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); CALENDARS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%) MOTION PICTURES; CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 

PERSON: SCOTT, A O 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); TAIWAN (71%); EUROPE (71%); JAPAN (71%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (71%); WESTERN EUROPE (66%); ASIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



713 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3954 words

HEADLINE: Got Water? 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: LITTLE FALLS 

 BODY:
AS the dry spring of 1999 stretched into a hot summer, streams and lakes shriveled in the sun, and officials faced a difficult choice.
 Rivers slowly sank, turning murky with silt. The sturdy Passaic River, which supplies water to about 800,000 people, became too dirty to drink. As fresh water dwindled, the Passaic filled with waste from the sewer plants that line its banks. Water companies could not clean the Passaic without adding fresh supplies from nearby reservoirs. 
 But the reservoir operators had their own problems. They, too, were losing water and having trouble meeting demands. At a meeting with the water companies, state regulators said they had reached a crisis and needed to cut back on reservoir use to protect the supply. 
"My response to the Division of Water Resources was, 'What are we going to do when I exceed the maximum contaminant levels?' " Phillip E. Roosa, chief of water quality for the Passaic Valley Water Commission, said in a recent interview. "We all sat in that room and said, 'What are we going to do?' "
In the end, state regulators had little choice. They kept the reservoir water flowing and hoped for rain. A few weeks later, their prayers were answered when a hurricane buffeted the state.
"We were fortunate," Mr. Roosa said.
The state dodged the bullet. But the problems on the Passaic in the summer of 1999 demonstrated the difficulty of managing the public water supply in a state as crowded as New Jersey. While water supplies are adequate for most parts of the state now, environmentalists and planners say that many regions -- from shore towns to the northern and western suburbs -- are in danger of using up their water.
Lack of rainfall caused worries earlier this spring. A dry spell in April and early May led several towns in northern New Jersey to impose water restrictions, and the state banned campfires because of the danger of forest fires.
Until last week's downpour added one to two inches of rain to most parts of the state, stream levels were extremely low. David A. Stedfast of the United States Geological Survey said that before the rain, about a fourth of the stations monitoring streams in the state were showing record lows for this time of the year.
"These are gauges with 30 years or more of data," Mr. Stedfast said. It is pretty unusual."
David A. Robinson, the state climatologist, said it was too early to predict whether the dry spell could turn into a full-fledged drought. 
While April was very dry, Mr. Robinson said, rainfall was abundant in March and December. Last week's downpour also cut into the deficit, although Mr. Robinson said the water level was still below average.
He noted that dry spells were not unusual, and that one or two more heavy rains could quickly bring things back to normal.
"The ground water is in pretty good shape and the reservoirs are normal," he said.
In the long term, however, many state water experts are concerned. George S. Hawkins, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Watershed Associations, put the situation in the state this way: "There is a day of reckoning that is not far off, and perhaps is already here, over the water supply. More water is being used, less water is recharging the system."
The master plan for the state's water supply -- produced every six years by the Department of Environmental Protection -- warns that the state is slowly running out of drinking water. The latest plan, issued in 1996, predicted that by 2040 New Jersey would have a deficit of about 29 million gallons per day.
To be sure, that does not mean that every part of the state will run low on water. In fact, the plan predicts that many areas, like the Raritan River Valley, will have surpluses well beyond 2040. What the plan says is that deficits from dry areas, like along the Cape May coast, will outstrip surpluses from other parts of the state.
At best, the water plan is only an estimate, and many people do not agree with its predictions. Among the critics is Robert Tudor, deputy commissioner of the Department of Environmental Protection, who thinks that the plan underestimated the savings through conservation and better management.
"There will be no statewide deficit," Mr. Tudor said. "We have already taken steps to avoid that."
Mr. Tudor said the 1996 plan was based on data from the 1980's, which made assumptions that were not borne out. He said the state was working on a new plan that would be finished in two years. 
Still, many people who deal with water supply on a local level feel Mr. Tudor is overconfident.
"How can the state say we are not at a deficit?" said Ella F. Filippone, executive administrator of the Passaic River Coalition. "We have just been through two droughts."
Ms. Filippone, who is also a member of the state Water Supply Advisory Council, said the water supply along the Passaic was adequate on an average yearly basis, but during periods with little rain the river level dropped rapidly and dangerously. She said the state needed better methods to deal with the dry periods, which occur every three to five years in the Passaic River basin.
"The Passaic River basin has been stressed," she said. "During times of drought, the flow of the Passaic River is 100 percent treated effluent."
Joseph A. Bella, executive director of the Passaic Valley Water Commission, said demand from such northern cities as Passaic or Clifton had been flat, but that the need for water for the growing suburbs to the north had been increasing.
"It looks to me like we are going to be reaching peak capacity sooner than they expect," Mr. Bella said. "The problem is -- is it in 10 years, or is it next year?"
MR. TUDOR acknowledges that some areas of the state are already having problems with the water supply. Along the shore, for instance, Cape May County has had saltwater creeping into underground aquifers for years. At the southern tip of the peninsula, Cape May City has already built a desalinization plant for its water supply. 
The Department of Environmental Protection recently ordered a halt to large housing developments in parts of Gloucester County because of strains on ground water in the southwestern part of the state. And the state is conducting a study on the effect that development could have on supplies in the Highlands, which are headwaters for many of New Jersey's rivers.
"There are a couple of places in New Jersey where we have to keep our eye on the ball," Mr. Tudor said. 
Yet environmentalists insist that the rapid growth of the suburbs will make it increasingly hard for state regulators to protect the water supply.
"What lies at the bottom of all the water quality and water supply issues in New Jersey is growth, and we do not deal with growth well," said Tim Dillingham, policy director for the New Jersey Conservation Foundation, a nonprofit preservationist group. "Everyone in New Jersey is downstream of someone else."
A look at Hopewell Township, for instance, is instructive. The population of Hopewell, once a collection of farms and sparse homes in Mercer County, grew almost 40 percent from 1990 to 2000. Two years ago, during an attempt to change its zoning rules to slow development, the town paid for a study of the water supply that surprised even the most ardent opponents of development.
"We are out of water," said Kathleen Bird, a member of the township committee and the planning board. Ms. Bird said if development continued unchecked, the town could have problems during a sustained drought.
Like many towns in the western part of New Jersey, Hopewell -- which uses 83 million gallons of water each year -- relies on small wells for drinking water. But according to the town's study, development has already claimed the available ground water, and any further use will begin to eat into the safety margin.
"It was certainly a wake-up call for Hopewell Township," said Mayor Mary Lou Ferrara. "We can't continue without paying the piper at some point."
Matthew Mulhall, the geologist who performed the study, said, "If we had a drought similar to the one in the 1960's, Hopewell would be using their water to the maximum."
Moreover, Mr. Mulhall said that he had performed studies for other towns including Bethlehem, Union and Lebanon, with similar results.
"Towns that are dependant on ground water are finding that often their water resources are reaching their available capacity," Mr. Mulhall said. "It is geology-related. It is also related to the number of people pulling water from the wells."
It is simple enough in concept. Problems occur when too many people try to use the same limited supply of water. But what is more difficult is determining who gets the water, and how much.
Town leaders in East Amwell, in Hunterdon County, are struggling with such a decision. The town spent years trying to preserve farms and open space from development, so when a local accountant approached the planning board with a proposal to build a small private golf course he was greeted with open arms.
"It was a land use that would protect open space," said Diane P. Griffith, vice chairwoman of the town planning board. "We were persuaded it would be better than sprawl."
But golf courses are notorious water users. Some town residents, including members of the board of health, objected to allowing golfers to siphon millions of gallons from the town aquifers.
Joel Moore, the developer, said he planned to spend $1.4 million on a high-efficiency irrigation system to preserve water, and had set aside more than seven acres for a pond to help supply water for the greens. 
"We have done our homework for water use," Mr. Moore said. He said the course was designed to use far less well water than most golf courses, estimating his system would need to draw about 27 million gallons a year from the ground water, as against more than 50 million for other 18-hole courses.
"New Jersey is very sensitive and aware of the water issue now, more than they have ever been," he said.
For now, the state Department of Environmental Protection is reviewing Mr. Moore's application, which is required of any development expected to use a large amount of water.
Tracy Carluccio, chairwoman of the town's board of health, said Mr. Moore had applied for a permit to use 54 million gallons of water a year.
"We think that is far too much," Ms. Carluccio said, adding that 15 million to 25 million gallons per year would be "much more in line with what the town's water supply could handle."
In addition, Ms. Carluccio said the ground water beneath East Amwell was limited by geography. Like much of western New Jersey, the town lies on bedrock, which does not hold large amounts of underground water.
IN other areas of the state, water supplies are already limiting growth on a large scale. Stephen M. Sweeney, the freeholder director in Gloucester County, said the lack of water was already threatening to choke development in his county. That would be a serious matter anywhere, but particularly in South Jersey, which has been struggling economically for a years.
Mr. Sweeney said commuters from Philadelphia and Wilmington were increasingly attracted to the area by the open space and relatively easy commute. But he said limited ground water had already prompted state regulators to block some large housing developments. 
"Water is going to control what is happening here," Mr. Sweeney said. "If I don't have water, I can't relocate businesses. If I don't have water, I can't create jobs."
For now, Mr. Sweeney said that the four counties in southwestern New Jersey -- Salem, Gloucester, Cumberland and Camden -- have set up a committee to review such options as expanding water service from the New Jersey American Water Company's treatment plant on the Delaware River to locations farther inland.
"We are going to try to work with the state to come up with some solutions," he said.
On the other side of the state, shore communities have been dealing with limited water supplies for years. As towns have drawn more and more ground water from aquifers, salt water has crept in from the ocean. Last year the Department of Environmental Protection provoked a great deal of criticism after it curtailed development in Cape May County by limiting sewer permits to existing town centers.
As in other parts of the shore -- where tourism brings in more than $10 billion a year to New Jersey -- state regulators have tried to strike a delicate balance in Cape May. While the area is environmentally sensitive and prone to problems with the water supply, it is also a tremendous engine of commerce.
Cape May City, a small town known for its Victorian architecture, took radical steps to protect its survival. Faced with saltwater creeping into the drinking supply, the city built a $5 million desalinization plant that does not use sea water -- a much more costly proposition -- but removes the salt from water in the city's contaminated wells.
With water levels dwindling, and the city's economy dependent on throngs of thirsty tourists, "we had no choice," said Luciano V. Corea, the administrator of Cape May City.
Mr. Corea said water use in Cape May City was driven by the summer vacation crowds. With a year-round population of 4,500 people, the city is the destination of more than a million visitors each year. The water rates, which are more than twice as high as in other parts of the state, reflect the influx -- the water company reduces the rate in the winter and increases it during the summer. Whether they realize it or not, the tourists are footing the bill for the extra treatment.
Public officials in the Cape May County are concerned that the salt in the ground water could move farther north, forcing other towns to adopt similar measures. Assemblyman Jack C. Gibson, a Republican from Cape May, has submitted a bill that would provide money for the state to examine other sources of water for the county. He said he believed that a string of deep wells in the northern part of the county along Route 9 could provide enough water for future development, provided the building was in line with the state development plan.
"This is not a study to find the means to get greater sprawl," Mr. Gibson said. "This is just to meet normal populations and those projected based on the state plan."
Economic growth is not the only concern. Environmentalists say the depletion of ground water along the Jersey Shore has already had a noticeable effect from Cape May to Monmouth County. 
People like Angela C. Andersen, who leads tours for the American Littoral Society, have during the last several years noticed lower stream levels and changes in the way marine plants grow. 
"We started seeing the grass dying off earlier, and things like that," Mrs. Andersen said. "A couple of our field trips were canceled because there was not enough water in the rivers."
Robert A. Scro, director of the Barnegat Bay Estuary Program, said stream flows had been noticeably lower across Ocean County as a result of increased development. The story was the same in all areas that depend largely on well water: new homeowners draw more ground water to drink and water lawns, and streets and parking lots prevent rainfall from recharging underground aquifers. He said the lower amount of water in the streams hurt the plants and animals that lived in the streams and in the bay.
"You have an increase in the concentration of pollutants that may be in those streams and you have an increase in salinity," Mr. Scro said. "It is a combination of negative effects when you reduce the ground water."
STATE regulators and environmentalists agree that the link between the quality of the water in the state's lakes and rivers and the available water supply is inseparable. 
Indeed, the Passaic River provides one of the most striking examples.
"New Jersey, more than any other state, has to use river flow on a daily basis for drinking water," said Jeff Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club. "Everything is interrelated in New Jersey. That is why it is so critically important to clean up our rivers, because our water supply depends on it. The dirtier it gets, the more trouble we run into."
For years, the Passaic was considered one of the dirtiest rivers in the United States, the result of hundreds of years of industrial discharges. In the 1970's and 80's, the state cut back on industrial discharges into the river and oversaw the improvement of 31 sewer plants that discharge into the river and its tributaries.
The state's efforts cured most of the Passaic's ills, primarily because untreated sewage and industrial waste no longer flowed into the river in large amounts. But it did not eradicate all of the river's problems.
Although the sewer plants removed most of the contaminants from the sewage before it entered the river, they did not remove all of the pollution. The treated sewage still contained such chemicals as nitrates and phosphorous; in high concentrations, nitrates can pose a health hazard.
Usually, the chemicals are diluted by river water and do not cause serious problems. But in dry periods, when most of the water in the Passaic is treated sewage, the concentrations can reach alarmingly high levels.
That is precisely what happened in the summer of 1999.
As the Passaic River sank, the concentration of nitrates increased. In concentrations greater than 10 parts per million, nitrates can make young children seriously ill. The nitrates slowly climbed, and water plant operators like Mr. Roosa, of the Passaic Valley Water Commission, were forced to use clean reservoir water to dilute the river water and reduce the nitrates to a safe level.
At the same time, the other chemical in the sewer outflow -- phosphorous -- was making life difficult for reservoir operators. Dean Noll, a retired engineer for the North Jersey District Water Supply, said high concentrations of phosphorous caused heavy growths of algae, which clogged the reservoir intake pipes. In addition, Mr. Noll said that algae forced the reservoir operators to flush out the pipes, reducing the amount of water they could send to the plants.
Hurricane Floyd provided a temporary solution to both problems. But environmentalists say the real trouble has not gone away, and will resurface the next time the Passaic River runs low.
Ms. Filippone, of the Passaic River Coalition, said the state had the technology to deal with the nitrate problem, though state regulators had not taken action to force a solution.
"The number we don't want to reach in nitrogen is 10, and we have gotten as high as 9.5," said Ms. Fillipone. "How close do you want to get? This is a major public health issue."
Mr. Tudor, the deputy commissioner, said the state was working on a solution. In fact, the water companies have already proposed a method to decrease both nitrates and phosphorous in the river.
Mr. Roosa said the method would require a more complex operating procedure at some of the sewer plants that discharge into the Passaic. But he said it was a solution that could begin immediately. 
Two sewer plants have already tried the new procedure, and one plant operator has written a report on it. According to the report, the plant reported a 60 percent drop in nitrate pollution and a substantial decrease in phosphorous. In an unexpected benefit, the operator reported, the plant also saved money on its electric bill.
"If four major plants on the watershed were to implement the process we could achieve our goal," Mr. Roosa said.
But there is a catch. Sewer plant operators say the new method is much trickier than operating a plant under normal conditions. Even a slight mistake could result in an illegal discharge of waste from a sewer plant -- and in substantial fines for the sewer plant operator.
Pat J. Matarazzo, superintendent of the Verona Wastewater Plant, said most of the sewer plants on the river were never designed to use the new method. Mr. Matarazzo, who is writing a report on the technique for the state, said the operators would like regulators to forgive any accidental pollution that occurs if the plants switch to the new method.
"You are asking these plants to run their process on the knife edge," he said. "If we get into an upset here, we would like a little grace."
Still, state regulators have not decided whether they will require the new method, or whether they can allow for a grace period for sewer plants.
"The pilot study shows it was very effective," Mr. Tudor said, adding that his department would review the report and, if practical, make changes.
In fact, the Department of Environmental Protection is conducting several studies into public water supplies around the state. Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco is pushing 16 bills that will either directly affect the water supply or provide money to investigate solutions.
One bill, which has passed the State Senate, would better identify pending droughts in sections of the state. The acting governor has also called for regulators to investigate methods of connecting regional water systems to allow operators to shift water from one area to another during regional droughts. In combination with the geological survey, the state is also conducting studies of the large aquifers that lie underneath the southern part of the state, and the effect of growth on the Highlands. 
Of course, the largest single study will be the new version of the state water supply plan. Under state law, the plan is supposed to be completed by 2002, but Mr. Tudor said it would probably be about a year late because of the volume of work involved. He said the new plan would be far more detailed than the 1996 version, and would include detailed analyses of each of the state's watersheds.
Critics say Mr. Tudor's deadline is optimistic. David Pringle, campaign director for the New Jersey Environmental Federation, said staff cuts at the Department of Environmental Protection would make it difficult to complete the water plan quickly.
"The reason the department lacks this data is there is a lack of resources," Mr. Pringle said. "That is a direct result of the cuts made by the Whitman administration."
WHETHER the plan takes two years or more, it could not come soon enough for people in North Haledon. The town, west of Newark, has suffered through severe water problems for years, and the mayor says the state has been little help.
Tests have shown that water in North Haledon contains high levels of a suspected cancer-causing chemical called trihalomethane. Town officials temporarily closed the schools last fall after high levels of the chemical were discovered in the drinking fountains.
Trihalomethane is a byproduct of chlorination used to purify the water supply. The Passaic Valley Water Commission, which supplies water to North Haledon, is building a new water plant, which will dramatically reduce the amount of trihalomethane in the town water. The commission has scheduled the plant to open in two years.
But environmentalists say trihalomethane contamination is merely a symptom of greater problems with the water supply. The New Jersey Public Interest Research Group recently started a campaign against trihalomethane contamination, which it said was increasing in the state's water systems.
Mr. Tudor acknowledged there was a problem in North Haledon, but he said there was no evidence the amount of trihalomethane was reaching a dangerous level in other parts of the state. In addition, he said the new water plant would help solve the North Haledon's problem.
For his part, Mayor George said that the water problems had already driven people out of town.
"The problem is, I don't believe the state is taking this that seriously," Mayor George said. "Since water is such a precious commodity, I think they should do whatever it takes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the spring of 1999, the Passaic River -- which feeds the Great Falls in Paterson and supplies water to about 800,000 people -- became too dirty to drink. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Luciano V. Corea, above, administrator of Cape May City, said, "We had no choice" but to build a plant to remove salt from water in city wells. Ella F. Filippone, director of the Passaic River Coalition, says the state needs better methods to deal with droughts. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times); (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 9) Chart: "Drying Up"A study has shown that New Jersey is slowly running out of drinking water drawn from its rivers and creeks. Surplus or deficit, in millions of gallons a day. RIVER/CREEK: Delaware1990: +5.42010: +4.82040: +3.8 RIVER/CREEK: Flat Brook1990: +10.02010: +9.92040: +9.8 RIVER/CREEK: Wallkill1990: +69.02010: +63.02040: +55.6 RIVER/CREEK: Passaic/Ramapo1990: +127.92010: +121.02040: +110.4 RIVER/CREEK: Passaic/Rahway1990: -9.02010: +7.42040: +19.8 RIVER/CREEK: Hackensack1990: -7.92010: -15.82040: -23.5 RIVER/CREEK: Pohatcong1990: +7.12010: +6.72040: +6.2 RIVER/CREEK: Musconetcong1990: +22.82010: +21.92040: +20.5 RIVER/CREEK: Raritan1990: +95.52010: +71.92040: +49.0 RIVER/CREEK: South1990: -27.22010: -41.92040: -60.3 RIVER/CREEK: Navesink1990: +13.52010: +13.42040: +14.2 RIVER/CREEK: Manasquan1990: +13.32010: +10.92040: +8.1 RIVER/CREEK: Rancocas1990: +35.52010: +16.32040: +0.9 RIVER/CREEK: Toms1990: -16.22010: -26.82040: -40.4 RIVER/CREEK: Mullica1990: -55.82010: -84.02040: -86.8 RIVER/CREEK: Salem1990: +12.42010: +9.12040: +7.9 RIVER/CREEK: Murice1990: -8.52010: -17.82040: -22.8 RIVER/CREEK: Great Egg Harbor1990: +10.82010: +5.32040: +1.4 Map of New Jersey highlighting above areas.(Source: New Jersey Statewide Water Supply Plan, 1996 )(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); RIVERS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); LAKES (90%); WEATHER (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); DROUGHT (89%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); HURRICANES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); FOREST FIRES (62%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (56%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (50%) WATER; RESERVOIRS; DROUGHT; SHORTAGES; HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; PASSAIC RIVER (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



714 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Up With the Gatsbys 

 BODY:
 Long Island didn't crack the top 10 in Worth magazine's annual list of the 250 richest communities in America, based on median house prices. But with 36 entries, it had the largest contingent in the New York City area and on the East Coast. 
New Jersey had 19 entries, Westchester 15 and Connecticut 10. But before you brag, consider that Connecticut's 10 communities are home to 142,970 people, according to Worth, while Long Island's 36 entries have a combined population of only 119,120. (The total for Westchester is 134,288 and for New Jersey, 114,373.) 
 The No.1 spot, by the way, is held by Jupiter Island, Fla., where the median house price is $3,937,500. The prices are for single-family homes, Worth says, compiled from 80 real estate specialists around the country.
Here are the Long Island entries:

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hickox Fields in Old Westbury. (Phil Martino for The New York Times) Chart:MatinecockRANKING: 22MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: $1,250,000 Old WestburyRANKING: 27MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 1,175,000 Sands PointRANKING: 28MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 1,172,500 Old BrookvilleRANKING: 32MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 1,100,000 Mill NeckRANKING: 37MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 1,045,000 Upper BrookvilleRANKING: 39MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 1,013,500 Lloyd HarborRANKING: 40MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 995,000 East Hampton VillageRANKING: 41MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 977,500 BrookvilleRANKING: 43MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 952,500 LattingtownRANKING: 52MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 900,000 MuttontownRANKING: 53MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 900,000 Laurel HollowRANKING: 54MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 895,000 Oyster Bay CoveRANKING: 57MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 870,000 PlandomeRANKING: 58MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 860,000 Flower HillRANKING: 70MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 789,000 Hewlett HarborRANKING: 72MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 780,000 Munsey ParkRANKING: 84MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 750,250 Kings PointRANKING: 85MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 750,000 Huntington BayRANKING: 87MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 749,500 Cold Spring HarborRANKING: 92MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 735,000 Roslyn EstatesRANKING: 96MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 725,000 North HillsRANKING: 97MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 720,000 Water MillRANKING: 104MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 696,000 BridgehamptonRANKING: 108MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 682,500 AsharokenRANKING: 154MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 611,250 East HillsRANKING: 155MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 610,500 ManhassetRANKING: 157MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 605,000 WoodburyRANKING: 167MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 595,000 Southampton VillageRANKING: 172MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 587,500 East WillistonRANKING: 184MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 575,000 RoslynRANKING: 187MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 575,000 AmagansettRANKING: 194MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 557,500 QuogueRANKING: 203MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 535,250 Great NeckRANKING: 230MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 490,000 North HavenRANKING: 242MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 471,500 Atlantic BeachRANKING: 246MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: 465,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); TRENDS (86%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: WORTH (MAGAZINE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) LONG ISLAND (NY); EASTERN STATES (US); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



715 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Lawyers Report an Uptick in Bankruptcy Filings

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
LAST October, the Island Medical Center in Hempstead filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy law. Under a judge's guidance, the hospital's creditors formed a committee to look after their collective interests. The committee installed a new management team that specializes in turning around troubled hospitals. 
 "The first thing we did was eliminate a lot of senior management fat," said David N. Bukstel, the new chief executive of the medical center, which was long known as Hempstead General Hospital. "We've made, and continue to make, significant cost reductions in both non-nursing staff and in our purchasing practices." 
 Bankruptcy laws have traditionally allowed businesses like the Island Medical Center time to reorganize, become more efficient and avoid liquidation. That safety net is threatened, some critics say, by the bankruptcy legislation now before Congress. Both the House and the Senate have passed similar bills that call for changes sought by bankers and other lenders. 
Gary C. Fischoff, a bankruptcy lawyer in Garden City, said the proposed legislation would make filing for bankruptcy more difficult and more expensive. Both House and Senate versions would reduce the time allotted to small business to reorganize, Mr. Fischoff said. Both versions would also restrict eligibility for filing under Chapter 7, a route taken mainly by individuals seeking to protect their homes from lien holders, Mr. Fischoff said, and both would institute requirements, where none currently exist, that at least part of the debts be paid back. 
For their part, business owners and the bill collectors who work for them say that it's getting tougher to collect what's owed them. "Nowadays, we're seeing a new type of debtor," said Gary Sender, the director of credit and collections at the National Credit Group in Babylon. "The person with problems is the guy who has had a viable business for 15 or 20 years and then got very heavily involved with the dot-coms. When they started going out of business, that hurt a lot of people."
Several bankruptcy lawyers said that it was no longer unusual for them to represent people in their early 20's who are carrying credit-card debt of $30,000 or more.
With unpaid bills piling up -- and with concern growing about the anticipated changes in the bankruptcy system -- financially beleaguered business owners and individuals have begun showing up at Long Island lawyers' offices. Three bankruptcy lawyers said that more people were visiting their offices to discuss filing for bankruptcy. 
In April, 781 people filed petitions under Chapter 7 in Federal Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of New York, in Central Islip. That's down slightly from the March total of 816, but well above the average of 452 for the prior three months. Filings under Chapter 11 -- the provision gives businesses protection from creditors while they reorganize -- totaled 9 in March and 29 in February. Last year, the average number of monthly filings was 18, Mr. Fischoff said. 
Supporters of the proposed bankruptcy legislation, including many banks and other lenders, say that it is needed to help them deal with people who abuse the system and skip out on their debts. Opponents say that the proposal would penalize honest people who deserve a fresh start, or at least enough time to get their finances in order.
Ted Berkowitz, the partner in Farrell, Fritz, Caemmerer, Cleary, Barnovsky & Armentano who is in charge of the Uniondale law firm's commercial bankruptcy practice, said the proposal was misguided because the present system was adequate. 
Several bankruptcy lawyers said that for individual debtors, the legislation's major impact would be more stringent requirements for filing petitions under Chapter 7. 
"People who file Chapter 7 are usually individuals who owe money on credit cards and have few assets other than their house," Mr. Fischoff said. "To be allowed to file in this category, you'll have to pass through a means test that would be developed by the Internal Revenue Service."
Stuart I. Gordon, the chairman of the bankruptcy department at Shaw, Licitra, Bohner, Esernio, Schwartz & Pfluger in Garden City, said that those who go this route "benefit from what is basically a liquidation." "It offers a fresh start to people who have been honest borrowers but find themselves in difficult financial situations," he added.
Under Chapter 7 at present, borrowers unable to pay their debts agree to liquidate their assets in order to keep their homes and to pay off some of what they owe. The proposed legislation would limit filings under this provision to people who meet the new means test to be devised by the I.R.S.. Mr. Gordon said the proposal would result in more people filing under Chapter 13, which gives individuals and unincorporated businesses a chance to reorganize. And then when they end up in even more financial trouble, he said, they will finally be eligible under the revised Chapter 7. 
Mr. Gordon says the proposed changes are a departure from the premise behind current bankruptcy law: that the honest debtor deserves another chance.
"The bankruptcy code has always provided consumers with the opportunity to discharge their debts and start fresh," Mr. Gordon said. "I believe there should be such an opportunity for honest consumers. Yes, there are some bad apples out there, but the law should not be written to penalize all consumers because of them."
"The courts are going to be inundated with all kinds of administrative procedures," he predicted. "But the real pain will be on the human level. It's going to make filing for bankruptcy even more expensive and time-consuming."
Bonnie King, who owns the Strategic Personnel staffing agency in Hicksville, said the effects of the bankruptcy bill would be especially painful for small businesses at a time when a sluggish economy is already causing problems of its own. Many are already struggling to deal with clients who have fallen behind in their payments, she said, or have filed for bankruptcy and left behind huge bills. 
Meanwhile, more and more companies are insisting that vendors sign contracts that extend payment terms from weeks into months. "They insist on paying you on a slower schedule, and then they don't even live up to those terms," said Ms. King, who is the president of the Long Island chapter of the New York Association of Temporary Staffing Services. 
Ms. King said that staffing companies have been deeply affected by the bursting of the high-tech bubble. Many dot-coms relied on temporary workers, she said, but as their financing ran out, many staffing agencies were left holding the bag. 
Staffing agencies "end up as lenders, because we put up money for payroll" for client companies, Ms. King said.
"We pay their workers," she continued "and they repay us. There's enormous concern in our industry because if a client goes bankrupt, it's really going to affect us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary C. Fischoff, a Garden City bankruptcy lawyer, contends that proposed legislation would make it harder to file for bankruptcy. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (93%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



716 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Kansas City, Kan.; 
A City Builds Its Hopes on New Kansas Speedway

BYLINE:  By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Kan. 

 BODY:
AT the end of September, on a hillside in the western outskirts of this city, the princes of auto racing will take off in a Winston Cup race before 75,000 fans at the $224 million Kansas Speedway, the newest stop on the Nascar circuit. This explosion of horsepower is expected to produce reverberations of economic development in a struggling city. 
 "Imagine a state fair and multiply it a hundred times -- that's what we're bringing here, but more upscale," said Jeff Boerger, vice president and general manager of the Kansas Speedway. "The economic impact will be huge," he added, "like having the Super Bowl and the baseball All-Star Game at the same time and place." 
 But the Winston Cup weekend will happen only once a year. While there will also be other racing events occasionally, city officials and business leaders in this town, the smaller of the two Kansas Citys, decided they wanted more. 
The unified city-county government stepped in and bought a 400-acre tract adjacent to the 1,250-acre speedway grounds and earlier this year announced the first tenants for a planned shopping and commercial development. They predict that residential development will soon follow. 
Incorporated in 1859 by Wyandot Indians displaced from Ohio, Kansas City, Kan., has a colorful history distinct from its Missouri counterpart to the east, across the wide confluence of the Missouri and Kansas rivers.
A refuge for fleeing slaves during the Civil War, it later grew into a center of railroading, milling and meatpacking. Waves of Mexican and East European immigrants were recruited early in the 20th century to operate the railroads and hoist beef carcasses for Armour, Swift and Cudahy.
After the end of World War II, the town, known locally as K.C.K., became increasingly viewed as a blue-collar, minority enclave with a serious crime problem, major social needs, a declining tax base and government by cronyism. Shopping for anything but essentials gradually dried up; the only movie theater in business today is an old drive-in. Residents who prosper tend to move across the county line on the south into the booming Johnson County suburbs or elsewhere in the five-county, bistate metropolitan area. 
While K.C.K. has been almost barren of shopping locales in recent years, the rest of the metropolitan area is saturated with malls, so K.C.K. leaders were looking for something beyond the usual mall fare to draw people. They believe they have found that in Nebraska Furniture Mart, an Omaha store that bills itself as the largest volume furniture dealer in the country, and Cabela's, a supplier of fishing and hunting gear with a cultlike following among many of the 75 million people who receive its catalogs.
ANCHORED by these two stores, the shopping district is expected to be a tourist draw on its own. Coupled with the racetrack, the area is projected to draw five million to six million people a year, not just from around the metropolitan area but from at least six surrounding states. That will help bring back into K.C.K. and its county, Wyandotte, some of the sales-tax revenue that has been soaked up by the surrounding richer communities.
"The vision for what we are calling the Tourism District started four years ago, after the city had won the speedway competition," explained William F. Crandall, vice president the Zimmer Management Company, which will act as the developer for the area adjacent to the speedway. "The mayor and other people concerned concluded that they should capitalize on this icon -- the racetrack -- so they hired a master developer, our company, to look for a way to make this a tourist destination."
Besides Nebraska Furniture and Cabela's, Zimmer has obtained commitments for a 12-screen multiplex by Warren Theaters of Wichita and a 200-seat Applebee's restaurant. It has also reached agreement with a mall developer that will sign smaller tenants. 
Nebraska Furniture Mart, owned by the Berkshire Hathaway Corporation, the company headed by the legendary investor Warren E. Buffett, plans a 450,000-square-foot store and a 130,000-square-foot distribution center. Cabela's, which plans a 175,000-square-foot store, is to start construction this summer and be open in September 2002. Nebraska Furniture Mart and the first part of the shopping mall are to be completed in the fall of 2003. The cost of this first phase of the retail area is an estimated $240 million.
Douglas G. Bach, special projects manager in the county administrator's office, said that despite the overwhelming size of the retail area, the goal is to achieve "a real quality development," using state bonds to create beauty around the asphalt. "We want to create a sense of place," he said. "We'll have a grand boulevard, a pleasant walking area with wonderful landscaping, maybe incorporating native limestone."
All of this is a long way from the heart of K.C.K. on the riverfront. More than 100 blocks stretch west from the decayed center city to the pastoral speedway site. Along the way are residential areas that gradually grow sparse, then give way to rolling farmland where cattle and horses graze.
The effort to attract the speedway began as Carol Marinovich, a former teacher who was elected mayor in 1995, was in a campaign to unify the governments of the city and Wyandotte County. After the unification measure passed in 1997, she was elected mayor and chief executive of the combined government, then re-elected this spring.
The mayor admits she was not a racing fan and had no idea of the growing economic importance of big-time auto racing when she went to the first meeting with representatives of the International Speedway Corporation, the company that, with the opening now of the Kansas Speedway, has 14 tracks around the country. International Speedway was looking for a large site somewhere in the five-county metropolitan area.
Eventually, the site offered by K.C.K. won against a site on the outskirts of Kansas City, Mo. The Kansas group enjoyed strong support from the state government and Gov. Bill Graves, who hopes the raceway will help move Kansas out of the bottom ranks of states as a tourist attraction. 
The incentive package they offered abates property taxes on the speedway for 30 years as well as state and local sales taxes. The Board of Public Utilities added a $3 million grant toward electricity and water costs. 
City officials argue that the potential payoff made the concessions worthwhile and point out that the speedway helped to attract the big anchor stores. For the commercial area, there is no property tax abatement. 
"The 400 acres was bringing in just $15,000 a year in real estate taxes before we bought the land," the mayor said. "After Phase 1 of the commercial area is completed, it will bring in $5 million a year in real estate taxes. That is money that can be used for services throughout the community. If we don't increase our economic viability, we can't put more dollars into services."
The new Kansas Speedway sits at the intersection of two interstate highways: I-70, a major east-west route, and I-435, which circles the greater metropolitan area. Mr. Boerger said this would make it possible to get spectators in and out of the speedway for an event in three and a half hours, even when the grandstand is expanded to its planned eventual size of 150,000 seats.
The grandstand, painted the blue and yellow of the Kansas state flag, overlooks a 1.5-mile tri-oval track -- an oval that has a bowed-out front stretch -- that handles speeds of 180 to 200 miles an hour. There is free parking on grass for 65,000 cars, plus rental space for recreational vehicles. Race drivers have another area in which to park their million-dollar RV's.
There is a large open-air space in which entertainers will perform before races, and a freestanding 5,000-square-foot kitchen is to feed up to 150,000 people. Sixty-eight corporate suites were snapped up at annual lease rates ranging from $29,000 for a 601-square foot suite for 32 guests to $70,000 for a 1,245-square-foot suite for 86 guests. Cabanalike "hospitality chalets" are available for seasonal rental for large parties. The University of Kansas Medical Center will operate a full trauma unit in a separate building a short distance from the track and grandstand. 
Mr. Boerger says this all adds up to "the most fan- and driver-friendly track on the circuit." And the mayor still laughs when she remembers her initial ambivalence about the speedway.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Boerger, vice president and general manager of Kansas Speedway, which now seats 75,000 in grandstands that are to be doubled in size. (Don Ipock for The New York Times) Map of Kansas highlighting Kansas City and location of new speedway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (93%); NASCAR RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); COUNTIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); BASEBALL (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); DISPLACED PERSONS (70%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (69%); TRENDS (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); FURNITURE STORES (60%) AUTOMOBILE RACING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; AUTOMOBILE RACING; NASCAR WINSTON CUP; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: NEBRASKA FURNITURE MART INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS SPEEDWAY 

INDUSTRY: SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (51%)

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (69%) KANSAS, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) KANSAS CITY (KAN)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



717 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: An American Success Story Stretches From Tashkent to Freeport 

BYLINE:  By PAULA GANZI LICATA 

 BODY:
 IT was a very foggy day," Elina Elnatanova remembered. She was 17, on her way to nursing school in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan. "I heard the squeals and the noise of the car. Another girl was walking in front of me -- maybe they thought it was me. They grabbed the girl and put her in the car. A few days later in our school they found this girl dead." Ms. Elnatanova looks up. "I got saved by God." 
 She believes she was being followed because her family was planning to immigrate to New York. This was in 1991, a most unsettled period as the Soviet Union fell apart in earnest. "It was a really dangerous time," Ms. Elnatanova said. 
Ms. Elnatanova had aspired to be a doctor, but religion got in the way. "This was one of the main reasons we left," she said. "We couldn't practice our Judaism in Russia. I was specifically told in school that I'm not getting into the medical school because I'm Jewish." So she went to nursing school instead. 
This account of living life looking in the rear-view mirror is difficult to imagine now, seeing Ms. Elnatanova, her sister Irina and their father, Gennadiy, in the bustling offices of Irina Signs, the family-owned business on Merrick Road in Freeport.
Now their biggest problem seems to be not having enough hours in a day, although they appear to make the most of the usual 24. Phones ring relentlessly. The counter is crowded with computers and work orders.
Theirs is an American success story. At 18, Mr. Elnatanov had his own company and went on to own three factories, with contracts from 13 of the 15 Soviet republics. The family lived a middle-class life in Tashkent.
"Whatever my father earned, they took away, so we couldn't go higher than middle class," said Elina Elnatanova, 26. "He knew in America he could grow."
Ms. Elnatanova remembers the day, Aug. 19, 1991, when Mikhail S. Gorbachev was deposed. "The radio and TV were not working," she said. "This is what Communism is -- you don't know what's going on. In 1992, we applied for papers and went on an interview through an American agency in Moscow." Later that year, the family -- Mr. Elnatanov; his wife, Zoya; and Irina, Elina and their sister, Karina, now 16 -- immigrated to the United States.
An aunt had arranged for an apartment, and the New York Association for New Americans gave the family money, food stamps and transit tokens. Friends and family already settled in New York were supportive, but many advised Mr. Elnatanov, now 51, that he was too old to start over. He assumed his assimilated Russian friends, used to American ways, knew best. But as an artist and successful businessman, he found that doing nothing wasn't easy.
In 1993 Mr. Elnatanov and his two older daughters borrowed $50,000 from friends, bought a computer and the next year leased a storefront in Jamaica, Queens. The family's resilience was put to the test. Two days after signing the lease, Mr. Elnatanov fell off a ladder and broke both arms, leaving his daughters to build the office interiors.
"We couldn't hire anybody -- we didn't have any money," Ms. Elnatanova said. "And we had to put a lot of money into advertising to get people to know about us."
It worked. They outgrew the storefront in five years and bought the building in Freeport.
Assistance came in many forms. When they needed a loan to buy a Saber 408 carving machine last December, Ellen Kelly, Freeport's director of community development, suggested that they talk to the Community Development Corporation of Long Island. This nonprofit organization issues loans to small businesses that are unable to borrow from traditional financial institutions. Referring to Trevor Davis, a senior vice president and the chief lending officer, Ms. Elnatanova said, "In one day, he got us approved," and the development corporation provided a $15,000 loan in 48 hours.
Then when the carving machine, which is 9 feet long and 4 feet wide, was delivered to Irina Signs, the Elnatanovs were unable to move it. So their neighbors at Prestige Marble and Tile and Roma Marble Pompeii lent their forklifts. 
Stuart Schrager, an account executive at WHLI-FM (KJOY 98.3), met the Elnatanovs during the Freeport Waterfront Festival last year. When Irina Signs needed more financing, Mr. Schrager lent them $2,000. 
"Maybe he knows we're not baloney guys," Ms. Elnatanova said. "Stuart said, 'I don't know why, but I trust you.' "
After the family arrived in the United States in 1992, Ms. Elnatanova persuaded the owner of a sign company in Long Island City to allow her father to work for nothing, with Ms. Elnatanova as his translator. Soon she learned how to operate the word processor and the engraving machine and had mastered the mechanics of the business. 
Thus inspired, she changed careers and enrolled in math and computer courses at Hunter College, where she graduated in 1997. She is now Irina Signs' manager of graphic design and quality production. 
Her sister Irina, now 28, enrolled at St. John's University and received her degree in math and computer science in 1998. She now spends most of her time out of the office, overseeing jobs and calling on clients and prospective clients, showing them pictures of the family's living room, which their father has transformed with intricately detailed hand-carved moldings. 
Customers seem to like Irina Signs' work. John Spectrum, the owner of the Spectrum Contracting Corporation in Franklin Square, said, "They're the only sign company I use now." 
One of Irina Signs' contracts was to supply signs for renovated storefronts in the Town of Freeport's Church Street project. John Talty, the project's general contractor, said, "They brought the product in on time, on schedule and at the right price."
For his part, Mr. Elnatanov works just as hard in the United States as he did in Uzbekistan, he said in Russian, translated by his daughter Elina. And he still worries about money. "He feels the pressure of the bills," she said. But one thing he no longer worries about is his family's safety. Carefully choosing the English words, he said, "I sleep here better."

A Diverse Island
This series looks beyond the stereotypes that sometimes taint relations between immigrants and native Long Islanders, examining immigrants' lives and how they are being woven -- or not -- into the social and economic fabric.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gennadiy Elnatanov and his daughters Irina, left, and Elina. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); FAMILY (75%); RELIGION (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); REFUGEES (70%) SURVEYS AND SERIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SIGNS 

PERSON: ELNATANOV, GENNADIY; LICATA, PAULA; ELNATANOV, ZOYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) LONG ISLAND (NY); UZBEKISTAN; FREEPORT (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



718 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: More Than a Sewing Fancy 

BYLINE:  By BESS LIEBENSON 

 BODY:
OH, the stories buttons tell. Buttons, 15,000 of them, to wear, to flaunt, to dream on -- in brass, glass, hand-painted enamel, cloisonne and ivory. They are the newly acquired makings of a permanent exhibition that opened May 2 at the Mattatuck Museum in Waterbury. 
 The kaleidoscopic cache represents a distinctive windfall -- a gift from the Waterbury Companies, a manufacturer that had its own button museum for many years. 
 "When the Waterbury Companies decided to sell the Waterbury Button Company, one of the assets that was kept was the button museum," said Carl Contadini, president of Waterbury Companies Inc.
Rachael E. Guest, an assistant curator of the Mattatuck Museum, said the company considered breaking up the collection and selling it. "But instead they decided the right thing to do was to keep it intact because it is an important part of Waterbury's history," she said. 
The manufacture of buttons, first by hand and then by machine, has been a mainstay of the region's economy since the late 18th century. That story is documented in a community history exhibition on the museum's first floor where several button-making machines are displayed along with pictures, including one of an eagle, fashioned from buttons. 
The Button Museum was originally assembled more than 50 years ago by the man who was then president of the Waterbury Button Company, Warren F. Kaynor. It was created with buttons rich not only in the history of Waterbury and Connecticut but of the world. 
At the Mattatuck Museum 10,000 buttons are on display, and that's not the entire collection. Researchers can make use of of binders of samples of every button made by the Waterbury Button Company.
The buttons are considered to be miniature works of art, reflecting changing artistic influences. Made in a variety of materials -- glass, porcelain, pearl, metal, bone, wood and jade -- they are decorated with motifs that include images of military heroes, feats of engineering and storybook characters. One brass button shows Little Red Riding Hood with a rather docile-looking wolf sitting next to her.
The exhibit includes four engraved bronze buttons, taken from General George Washington's coat. The buttons had been removed and divided among his descendants (remaining in the Washington family until 1930). They are now mounted on a morocco case.
Other eye stoppers include carved cinnabar from Asia, Japanese netsuke and colorful Bakelite buttons from the 1930's, lighthearted symbols of a sail boat, Scottie, ear of corn or a penguin.
There are floral bouquets made of human hair placed under glass, military buttons, black glass and marquisette buttons popularized by Queen Victoria and a case of tiny Jenny Lind portrait buttons. Habitat buttons made in France preserve plant or insects under glass, "some referred to as paperweight buttons because they are made the same way," Ms. Guest said.
"There are buttons here for everyone, buttons that would appeal to men -- uniform, sporting, showing a football player; buttons that appeal to women; and kids love them."
"Everybody grew up with someone in their family who had a box of buttons, so it has a strong tug to family memories," Ms. Guest said, adding, "This is a particularly special button collection because of Waterbury's button-making history. It reaches out to people, representing both the local community as well as the larger community of the world." 
The Mattatuck Museum, 144 West Main Street in Waterbury, is open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sundays noon to 5 p.m. (closed Sundays in July and August.) Information: (203) 753-0381. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from above: the main gallery of buttons at the Mattatuck Museum in Waterbury; buttons made of pearls, including one with an image of the Eiffel Tower; and brass buttons from police uniforms. (Mattatuck Museum); Little Red Riding Hood with a docile-looking wolf sitting by. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); FASTENER & PIN MFG (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (77%) BUTTONS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: WATERBURY COS INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: WATERBURY COS; MATTATUCK MUSEUM (WATERBURY, CONN); WATERBURY BUTTON CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339993 FASTENER, BUTTON, NEEDLE & PIN MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3965 FASTENERS, BUTTONS, NEEDLES, & PINS (93%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (93%) SIC3089 OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCTS; SIC3965 FASTENERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); MOROCCO (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



719 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM; 
A Study Dares to Question the 401(k)

BYLINE:  By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AT a time when Congress is considering raising the annual investment limits on 401(k) plans, to $15,000 from $10,500, a new study suggests that many people should invest less, or not at all. For some low- to moderate-income workers, investing in these tax-deferred retirement accounts may actually raise their taxes and reduce the amount of money they have available to spend over their lifetimes.
 My father would have been shocked. When I was in my 20's and in my first job out of college, he preached to me about the benefits of tax-deferred savings. He then asked if I had opened an individual retirement account. 
 "I don't have $2,000," I said, referring to the annual investment limit.
"I'll loan it to you," he said.
"But I'd still have to pay it back," I said.
"Take your time," he said.
For my normally frugal father, this was an extraordinary offer, and I took it. When my employer later offered a 401(k) plan, I had learned my lesson and signed up.
Millions of baby boomers have done the same thing. Of the 39.6 million people invested in 401(k) plans at the end of 1999, the latest year for which numbers were available, 21.5 million, or 54 percent, were held by baby boomers, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington.
But Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at Boston University, who wrote this new study with Jagadeesh Gokhale and Todd Neumann, economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said many households with incomes of $50,000 or less that invest in 401(k) plans could lose the full benefit of the mortgage deduction as the contributions lower their tax bracket. The study, which used theoretical examples, said families would be pushed into a higher bracket when they withdraw money from the plan.
Even worse, he said, the withdrawals will increase their incomes so much that a larger percentage of their Social Security benefits will be taxed by the federal government. (He said richer households do not have that problem because their Social Security benefits are already taxed at the upper limit.)
According to the study, which is expected to be published next month, a married couple earning $50,000 combined at age 25 will indeed do well in a 401(k) if it returns a steady 4 percent a year. Their lifetime taxes will go down; the money they have available to spend will go up. But if the return increases to 6 percent, their taxes increase 1.1 percent and their available money falls by 0.39 percent. With an 8 percent return, taxes rise 6.38 percent and available money falls 1.73 percent.
And that leads to the question: Why get into an investment at all if you have to hope it does not do too well? (The authors also discovered that I.R.A.'s generally do not share the same problems as 401(k)'s, but they will if Congress increases the I.R.A. investment maximum to $5,000, a move it is considering.)
"A lot of people don't take advantage of 401(k) participation," Dr. Kotlikoff said. "They may be smarter than their employers."
He said he and his co-authors were surprised by the findings and ran the numbers again and again in ESPlanner, a personal finance program he and his colleagues created (www.esplanner.com).
"We discovered this by accident," he said. "Then we started scratching our heads wondering if we did something wrong."
Ted Benna, president of the 401(k) Association, a retirement consulting firm in Bellefonte, Pa., and the person who designed the first 401(k) plan 20 years ago, said what was wrong was the idea of discouraging people to save. He said that no matter what the numbers showed, the plans were invaluable not so much for their tax benefits, but for the forced savings they promoted. He said most people would not save outside of a 401(k).
"For 90 percent of the work force, that won't work," Mr. Benna said. "There are too many things that come up to make it easier to spend -- the washing machine blows up, the car breaks down."
MY 401(k) has grown to an amount my father couldn't have imagined all those years ago. I silently thank him every time my monthly statement arrives. I'm glad I started it when I was young and poorer because I wouldn't have saved otherwise. I needed the push; I needed the 401(k).
Dr. Kotlikoff said he realized people need a push, but he said lower-income people shouldn't be penalized in the process. He urges employers to set up non-401(k) investment plans modeled after the Roth I.R.A.'s, which are not taxed at withdrawal. And Washington must step in. "Congress needs to rethink our entire savings incentive strategy," he said. "The current system can be a highly regressive and a bad deal for the poor." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (94%); US 401K PLANS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MARRIAGE (62%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; PERSONAL FINANCES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES; NEUMANN, TODD; GOKHALE, JAGADEESH; KOTLIKOFF, LAURENCE J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



720 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

PERSON: Francisco Gil Diaz 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Giving Mexico Its Tax Medicine

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
TEN years before Francisco Gil Diaz became Mexico's finance minister in December, he was playing the role of tough cop. As the nation's chief tax collector, he and his auditors hunted down hundreds of Mexico's most notorious tax evaders and systematically imprisoned them.
 Today Mr. Gil (pronounced heel) no longer chases bad guys, but he has not forgotten those days. A practicing Catholic, he says that he identifies with Matthew, the tax collector in the New Testament who became an apostle. Mr. Gil, now in charge of protecting Mexico's economic welfare, finds himself preaching a familiar message: thou shalt pay thy taxes. 
 Mexico, as hard as it has tried, has found it nearly impossible to get people to consistently pay what they owe the government. There are gaping loopholes in the system and up to 40 percent of the population may be off the tax rolls. So when Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, took office in December, he made it clear that fiscal reform would be a major part of his economic policy and that Mr. Gil would spearhead the cause. 
Six months later, thanks in part to Mr. Gil, Mexico is weathering the United States economic downturn well. Its currency, the peso, is the strongest it has been in nearly three years. And less than two weeks ago Citigroup made the biggest single foreign investment in Mexico's history, purchasing the Banacci financial group for $12.5 billion.
But it remains unclear whether Mr. Gil can convince lawmakers to enact his tax agenda. Few can challenge Mr. Gil's qualifications to reform Mexico's tax structure. His doctoral dissertation at the University of Chicago was called "Three Essays on the Taxation of Capital." In his 30 years of government service, split between the Finance Ministry and Central Bank, he helped write 10 federal budgets. And in a country where politicians have often abused their power, Mr. Gil earned a reputation for incorruptibility.
When he was under secretary of revenue from 1988 to 1994, two economic analysts said, he audited members of his own family more closely than average citizens. And his legacy is found in Mexico's penal system, where the nearly 500 tax evaders he arrested were known as Gilitos, or Gil's little ones.
Apart from Mr. Gil's disciplinarian qualities, he is regarded -- by himself, among others -- as one of the nation's most influential economic minds. As an economics professor at the Autonomous Technical Institute of Mexico, he influenced a generation of students who became policy makers. His economic philosophy, inherited from the Chicago school of Milton Friedman and Robert Mundell, makes him an ardent, sometimes inflexible, proponent of free-market policies.
"There's no doubt about it. Gil Diaz has a strong character, and is seen as someone who couldn't care what other parties and what other people have to say," Jonathan Heath, the chief economist for Latinsource Mexico, an investment advisory firm, said. "He has all the answers."
In 1997, Mr. Gil's firmness of conviction may have cost him a nomination to become the governor of the Central Bank. At the time he was a member of the bank's board of governors, and following the 1995 peso crisis he promoted a plan that would have eventually locked the peso's value to the dollar. Ernesto Zedillo, then president (and an economist trained at Yale), disagreed strongly. Mr. Zedillo eventually chose Guillermo Ortiz, who was more aligned with Mr. Zedillo's economic philosophy.
Mr. Gil left government and became director general of Avantel, a Mexican telecommunications company partly owned by WorldCom. He fought to gain market share from Telefonos de Mexico, the near-monopolistic telephone company known as Telmex and run by Carlos Slim, Mexico's richest man. Mr. Gil quickly pointed his guns at the government.
At the time, Avantel was paying about 75 percent of its gross revenue to Telmex just to route calls through its network. In a court battle that lasted three years, Mr. Gil sued the government almost on a weekly basis, charging it with not doing enough to enforce competition laws.
In an interview, Mr. Gil said that one day after joining Avantel, he was asked what he felt about the government. "My answer was, 'I already hate bureaucrats.' "
He said many people incorrectly assumed he was fighting Telmex, but noted that Mr. Slim was doing what anyone would have done given that amount of power. "It wasn't Slim's fault; it was the government's fault. The enemy was the government."
Even so, just a few days before Mr. Fox's inauguration as the first president to break seven decades of one-party rule, Mr. Gil was back in government, this time sitting in the Cabinet. Friends say that the decision was not an easy one. Mr. Gil's wife suffered a severe stroke three years ago and her health is fragile. In addition, Mr. Gil, 57, was taking a significant cut in pay from his Avantel position.
So far he has dedicated the bulk of his energy to fiscal reform. For Mr. Gil, that would culminate 30 years of effort to overhaul the nation's tax structure. But politics has been a stumbling block: his legislation contains a proposed 15 percent value-added tax on food and medicine, and though President Fox has placed an enormous amount of his political capital behind it, Congress and the public have shown little enthusiasm. The bill has been shelved until fall.
Some political analysts in Mexico City say the stalled bill is testament to Mr. Gil's lack of political charm.
TAXING food and medicine guarantees that "there is going to be an outcry," he said. "I wouldn't change anything to the fiscal reform proposal, but that doesn't mean it's perfect." But Mr. Gil is in no hurry. He wants the tax reform to be permanent, and Mr. Fox's government has five and a half more years to run.
"He is very convinced of what he's doing," said Manuel Sanchez Ugarte, president of the Federal Antitrust Commission and a friend and former colleague of Mr. Gil's. He said Mr. Gil had returned to government "not because he wants to be powerful, but because he feels his job will make a difference to the country."
Mr. Gil said his goal always has been "to push toward a market economy, work toward having the government perform its functions -- which it doesn't."
"A government that doesn't provide justice," he said, "that doesn't provide defense of property rights, that doesn't provide security, cannot even think of doing something else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Gil Diaz put hundreds of Mexico's worst tax evaders in prison a decade ago. Now, as his country's finance minister, he is still working to encourage Mexicans to pay their taxes. (Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AUDITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PRISONS (72%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) TAXATION; TAX EVASION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) GORI, GRAHAM; GIL DIAZ, FRANCISCO (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (87%) MEXICO

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



721 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: CITIES; 
STATE PLAN FOR CAMDEN

BYLINE:  By Iver Peterson 

 BODY:
 Acting Governor DiFrancesco last week disclosed the state's latest plan for Camden. By carefully courting local officials and by dangling the prospect of $150 million in new state investment in the city, Mr. 
DiFrancesco succeeded where former Governor Whitman failed in winning support for the plan from city leaders. Although couched as a rescue package, the plan is clearly also a takeover, since it would vest the power to hire and fire city managers and to raise and spend money in the hands of a new chief officer appointed by the state. The plan foresees a large-scale waterfront development program linked to an expansion of the state aquarium, as well as programs to demolish abandoned buildings and to help attract new businesses and families to the city. Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; AQUARIUMS 

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV); PETERSON, IVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CAMDEN (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



722 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for GORDON E. MOORE; 
Technology Intensifies the Law of Change

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

 BODY:
GORDON E. MOORE and Robert N. Noyce co-founded Fairchild Semiconductor in 1957 and, a decade later, they co-founded the Intel Corporation. In a paper Mr. Moore published in Electronics Magazine in 1965, he articulated the concept that underpins what has become known as Moore's Law: the power of a silicon chip will double every 18 to 24 months, accelerating the pace of technological change.
 Mr. Moore, 72, an "accidental entrepreneur," as he calls himself, is one of the pioneers of Silicon Valley. Since 1997 he has been chairman emeritus at Intel which, under his management, grew into the global leader in computer chip design and manufacturing, with nearly $34 billion in annual revenue. 
 On April 11, Mr. Moore announced he would retire from Intel by the end of this month. In a telephone interview last Wednesday, excerpted below, he spoke about the implications of high-speed technology. MATT RICHTEL

Q.One consequence of the pace of technological change, and perhaps a byproduct of Moore's Law, is that consumers sometimes feel that the moment they buy a computer it becomes obsolete or, at least, no longer a cutting edge product. How do we resolve that frustration?

A. That's a real problem. The industry has established the fact that if you wait a year you can get something that delivers higher performance and lower cost. But by doing that you never take advantage of what's here. I think it's a byproduct that is built into a technology that's changing this fast. The solution is not to make progress and I don't think that's a good answer.

Q. Has the increased pace of technological change driven change in other parts of our lives? Is life moving more quickly, and is that a good thing?

A. Certainly, the exponential nature of change is what Moore's Law is all about. I don't know how to define if it's good or not. It certainly puts a strain on people. The only thing that's constant is change these days. For people who find change something that they're not content with, I could imagine it being a real problem. It probably affects those of us in the tech industry more than anyone else. We've learned to live with it. The collective effect is large and generally positive. If you look at the way a lot of things are influenced by the rapid flow of technology -- learning things faster, our medical systems are greatly improved, automobiles are more reliable -- all of these things are a result of technology's rapid change and positive contributions.

Q. What in your view is the future of Intel, and of your legacy?

A. They're not quite the same. Intel is a major company in a very rapidly moving industry. As long as we can anticipate and make the right moves, we have the opportunity to grow -- but in an industry that does change this fast, you have a lot of opportunity to make mistakes. That's what we have to do: avoid making major mistakes. As to my legacy, as ridiculous as it seems to me now, it's probably going to be Moore's Law.

Q.Do you see troubling side effects from the widespread use of personal computers? For instance, the effect they have at work of physically isolating people? What, if anything, keeps you up at night worrying?

A. What keeps me up at night is doing my own e-mail. I wouldn't say anything keeps me up at night worrying. Anything that changes -- in a dramatic way -- the way we do things, requires us to give up doing things that may have been attractive before. I'm amazed to see how many people working at Intel are sitting at terminals pushing buttons where previously they may have been working together. I guess that does introduce a kind of an isolation but it sure is an effective way to do things, essentially 24 hours a day. It gives a lot of capability for which there is a sacrifice. I'm not sure it sacrifices much more than did the introduction of the automobile assembly line, where employees could see each other but not hear each other. I'm not sure it's a qualitative difference.

Q. What do you see as the most prominent threats to United States economic dominance in the future?

A. I have a concern that we're not training enough of the U.S. population to maintain our technical lead. Our outstanding universities, which are the envy of the world, are training half foreign-born students who are going back to where they came from. I see our tech companies taking advantage of well-trained people in other countries. But we're in danger of exporting a lot of technological advantage because we're not training enough people here. Education, that's our Achilles' heel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon E. Moore (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (73%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; FAIRCHILD SEMICONDUCTOR CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; MOORE, GORDON E 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



723 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: COLUMBUS CIRCLE; 
Bookstore. Rent Increase. Moving Plans. Sound Familiar?

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
The place buzzes with life, reams of it. The books look robust, their spines erect, their pages warm. The people talk and laugh under the rinky-dink yellow letters that say "Coliseum Books." 
 For 27 years, the bookstore, one of the few independents left in Midtown, has stocked its ample shelves at 57th Street and Broadway with everything from classics to cartoons to best sellers to coffee-table books. More than 100,000 volumes go on and on, as if forever. 
 Or maybe just until the end of January, when the bookstore's lease expires.
The building was acquired in 2000 by the Moinian Group. The group's chief executive, Joseph Moinian, wants to more than double the rent, to $250 or $300 a square foot, for the ground floor.
"It's absolutely impossible," said George Leibson, an owner of Coliseum Books. "The rent right now is too high for us. We're losing money."
Jeffrey Roseman, an executive vice president of Newmark New Spectrum Retail, the leasing agent for the building, said, "We'd love to keep Coliseum, but they just can't really pay the rent." 
He added: "Fortunately for him, he has had a fantastic corner that he's had a long-term lease on. Obviously, things change a little bit."
Mr. Roseman said Newmark had offered Coliseum a smaller entryway on the ground floor, and a smaller portion of the space the store occupies on that floor, plus space on the lower level, though its rent would still increase. But Mr. Leibson rejects the offer.
"It's not anywhere close to the value that they're asking for," Mr. Leibson said. "It's not good space." He said he was looking for another location.
"It's a changing economic environment, a changing business environment, a changing real estate environment," he said. "It's no one's fault. It's just the nature of the game. The book business is not a high-margin business. It never has been." ERIKA KINETZ

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Neighborhood Report pages on May 27 about the expiration of Coliseum Books' lease misstated the renewal terms offered by Newmark New Spectrum Retail. The rent would not increase; it would decrease by about 20 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); LITERATURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RENTING AND LEASING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: COLISEUM BOOKS (NYC) 

PERSON: LEIBSON, GEORGE; KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



724 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: BOOK VALUE; 
Not Holding a Job Is New Work System

BYLINE:  By FRED ANDREWS 

 BODY:
DANIEL H. PINK is young, fresh and evangelistic. His book, "Free Agent Nation" (Warner Business Books, New York, 2001, $24.95), is an irrepressibly enthusiastic view of what he embraces as the most profound change in work life since Americans fled the farm for jobs in industry. Mr. Pink is pleased to declare that the job as we know it -- 9-to-5, with indefinite tenure -- is drying up, a relic of the industrial age.
 The new system is people working for themselves -- "the growing ranks of people who work but don't hold a job." By a conservative count, 33 million Americans now make their living as "free agents." They work on their own, or as temporary hires, or as employees of tiny enterprises of only three or four people. (There are 13 million microbusinesses today, most of them based at home.) By Mr. Pink's definition, one American worker in four is already a free agent. 
 Once a speechwriter for former Vice President Gore, Mr. Pink burned out and became a freelancer, writing regularly for Fast Company, the business magazine. His book rests on hundreds of interviews from more than a year of roaming the country. He has delivered a book with interesting facts, some appealing interviews, friendly prose and a provocative point of view. 
It isn't a see-no-evil book, but it's close. The author makes no mention of skeptics who have pointed out that self-employment has declined in recent years and that large companies are recruiting successfully, partly by adopting flexible working conditions.
Mr. Pink sets up William H. Whyte's enduring work, "The Organization Man," as expressing the polar opposite of all he applauds today. "You were loyal to the organization so the organization would be loyal to you," Mr. Pink writes. But today, he says, the pendulum has swung. "Organizations need individuals more than individuals need organizations." 
He explains the free agent economy as honoring four work values: having freedom; being authentic; putting yourself on the line; and defining your own success. They are decidedly not the hallmarks of an Organization Man. 
Today, Mr. Pink writes, individuals treat big companies like college. The company provides the opportunity to get an education (on the job), earn a credential (recommendations for the resume) and gain membership in an alumni society (of everyone who ever worked there). A big company, he writes, can inspire people, it can challenge them, but it cannot retain them.
So it's true that loyalty is dead?
No, but it's quite different. "Instead of up-and-down loyalty, free agents practice a new side-to-side loyalty," Mr. Pink writes. They show "a fierce allegiance to clients, colleagues, ex-colleagues, teams, professions, projects and industries." "Logo loyalty" gives way to "Rolodex loyalty." 
Mr. Pink asks whether we have lost the time-honored social contract, a trade of loyalty for job security. Probably so, he says, but a new social contract is taking hold; the bargain is talent for opportunity. 
Mr. Pink offers an amusing chapter on what he calls the seven pillars of free agency, the institutions a free agent could not do without -- Kinko's, Starbucks, Barnes & Noble, Alliance Business Centers, the Internet, Staples, Mail Boxes Etc. and Federal Express. Starbucks is the locale of choice for a business conversation. "At Starbucks you buy coffee and get the office free," Mr. Pink writes. 
Like many academic exponents of free agency, Mr. Pink finds a prototype in the production practices of the movie industry, where specialists assemble to make a film and then disperse. "We're all going Hollywood," Mr. Pink writes. "The Hollywood model is the free agent model." 
It is also a tired example. As Don Cohen and Laurence Prusak pointed out in their book "In Good Company," the craft of filmmaking is well understood, the various roles on the set clearly defined and the power hierarchy known and accepted. Most of the crew are pals from previous films. Without that rich context, it is hard for free agents, all strangers, to be assembled as a team and work effectively on a business project. 
The key to surviving as a freelancer is keeping the jobs coming. Free agents, if they wish to eat, must build a network of contacts and nurture it. Free agents are active in associations; they populate industry gatherings. Interestingly, Mr. Pink writes, free agents often get new projects on tips not from their circle but from someone more distant.
"Weak ties link free agents to acquaintances who move in different circles," he writes. Mr. Pink suggests that women, adept at networking, may dominate the free agent economy.
The new economy is fueled by individuals trading job leads with one another. "Reciprocal altruism is the underlying process that allows the free agent economy to function," the author writes. "And it ruthlessly eliminates those who violate its terms." Givers gain, he says. Takers lose. At a pinnacle of idealism, Mr. Pink writes that "the underlying operating system of the freewheeling, individualistic, hypercapitalistic free agent economy is . . . the Golden Rule." 
The underclass of the new order are the "temp slaves," placed by temporary agencies to work indefinitely at companies for low pay, poor benefits, if any, and little chance of regular positions. 
"Most free agents are surprisingly satisfied with their work," Mr. Pink writes. "Temp slaves are suffering less because they are temps than because the lack of the skills and the bargaining power to get a fair deal in the marketplace." 
Mr. Pink speculates that free agency will transform much of American life. The sheer number of free agents, far more numerous than trade union membership, will make them an influential, independent element in national politics. Their strength will lead the government to change bedrock labor policy from insuring security for industrial workers to supporting individuals as sole proprietors. 
The priorities will then become the individual; opportunity; mobility; benefits; and lifelong learning for all -- and while you are at it, a national medical plan for free agents as good as the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program and fairer Social Security taxation. 
Mr. Pink predicts that every new house will come with an office, until "home office" becomes redundant. Free agency will also redefine retirement, as energetic retirees engage in small-business ventures. The spirit of independence will accelerate home schooling, already a prospering movement.
Of course the freelance economy flowered in a prosperous time. Mr. Pink wrote before the downturn. We have yet to see how free agents stand up to a pounding by years of a weak economy. 
Mr. Pink, ever optimistic, argues that contrary to what one might expect, in tough times a regular employee, subject to layoff at any time, is less secure than a free agent with a diverse portfolio of clients. We wait and see, but one can imagine the same frigid wind whipping through all those clients and prompting the same response -- cutting back on contract workers. 
Not everyone likes the way this trend is heading. Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor of organizational behavior at Stanford Business School, argues that free agency inflicts a heavy price on companies. Writing in the MIT Sloan Management Review, Professor Pfeffer says that free agency was a management disaster in Silicon Valley. 
HE has found that by relying on free agent contract workers, a company implicitly accepts high turnover, enormous training costs, productivity losses, loss of knowledge, and possibly a gift of knowledge to competitors -- who knows where someone might work next?
Late in his book Mr. Pink writes: "Free agency is, in effect, a form of just-in-time staffing. Companies hire the exact number of people they need for a project -- no more, no fewer." So the risk of economic ups and downs has shifted from the company to the free agent's shoulders. Small wonder that Mr. Pink writes, "Careers resemble mountain climbing -- full of great heights and potential peril."

Quakers, Luddites and Other Workers
RICHARD DONKIN undertakes to answer an elemental question: Why do we work? And in particular, why do we work so hard? He marvels at highly paid people "who work such long hours they rarely have the opportunity to step outside their jobs and enjoy a moment's leisure." 
Mr. Donkin, the son of a welder who labored 30 years for the same steel fabricator, contrasts the sameness of his father's work life with endless change today. Like Daniel Pink, author of "Free Agent Nation," Mr. Donkin sees the classic job giving way to more flexible work forms that permit a better-balanced life. 
Mr. Donkin writes about work and management for The Financial Times. His book, "Blood, Sweat & Tears: The Evolution of Work" (New York, Texere L.L.C., 2001, $27.95), is a pleasantly meandering history of work from the Stone Age to the present, rich with engaging vignettes. Toward the end, the book gets fuzzy with scholarly concepts, but along the way the reader will discover intriguing tidbits: 
The Society of Friends, shunned and excluded, nevertheless overflowed with talented inventors and businessmen. Three-fourths of Philadelphia's most wealthy were Quakers or raised as Quakers. In business as in life, they practiced mutuality and self-help. Among Quakers in England, eating chocolate was a rare allowable indulgence, the author writes, so that the chocolate makers Fry's, Cadbury's, Rowntree's and Huntley & Palmer's "all owed their origins to Quaker development."
Ned Ludd was a Yorkshire apprentice who smashed machinery where he worked. In a Luddite assault on William Cartright's mill, a youth named John Booth was mortally wounded. A clergyman stooped over him, hoping to extract the names of Booth's confederates. "Can you keep a secret?" the dying man asked. "Yes, I can," the clergyman replied, leaning forward. "So can I," Booth said as he expired.
The tongue-twister, "she sells sea shells by the sea shore," was inspired by Mary Anning, a talented paleontologist. She found a pleosaur fossil in 1824 and pterosaur in 1829. Ms. Anning was unrecognized in her day because she earned her daily bread by her labor as a trader. Among the gentleman scholars, working for pay "was far too grubby a notion."
Mr. Donkin's villain is Frederick Winslow Taylor, father of scientific management and very much out of favor today. Mr. Taylor broke down jobs into the separate motions required and timed each. He concluded one man could load 45 tons of pig iron a day, not the standard 12 1/2. He famously told some workers they were hired for their strength. "We have other men paid for thinking." 
Mr. Donkin concludes that the legions of workaholics today are burdened by the Protestant ethic, rooted in the Nonconformist Protestant sects of 16th and 17th century Britain. He says Americans bear the mark of Calvinism, the faith that work is toil, something we do reluctantly because therein lies salvation.
"We cannot live for work," he writes. "Instead, we must take control of our lives." The oppressive Protestant ethic is not our deepest motive, he says. "We work because we want to leave something better for those we leave behind, some signpost of our existence."
 FRED ANDREWS

GRAPHIC: Photo: A researcher times a factory worker. The idea of worker efficiency has changed a great deal through the centuries. (PBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (72%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (68%) LABOR; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: AL GORE (51%) PINK, DANIEL H; ANDREWS, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: FREE AGENT NATION (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



725 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS; 
Inflation's Uptick Clouds Outlook for the Bond Market

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
INFLATION is not about to take off. A 5 percent annual rise in the Consumer Price Index is not in the cards. But there are troubling signs of rising costs that are casting a pall over the bond market for the second half of the year.
 The price of a barrel of crude oil was $28.38 Friday and its average for the year so far has been the same, which means it is unlikely that it will drop to the $22 to $25 average that many analysts predicted for 2001. The continued turmoil in the Middle East adds to concern about oil prices. 
 Health care prices are rising. Cigna, one of the nation's largest health insurers, predicts that its medical costs will jump 10 percent to 11 percent this year, up from the 8 percent to 9 percent it had expected.
There have been a few big wage settlements that average out to annual increases well above the current 3.3 percent rise in the past 12 months in the Consumer Price Index. And that is already well above the 2 percent pace the Federal Reserve prefers. Senior mechanics at Northwest Airlines got a raise of more than 24 percent on signing their contract and will get another 10 percent by the beginning of its fourth year. Pilots at Delta Air Lines are voting on a pact that would give them raises of 24 percent to 34 percent over five years.
And two gauges of inflation expectations have moved higher recently. The price of gold is up $21.60, or 8.4 percent, since April 2, to $278.20 an ounce. The Treasury's inflation-protection securities are now indicating an expected inflation rate over the next five years of about 2 percent. While that is not high by historical standards, it is up from an expected rate of 1.4 percent at the beginning of the year, Steve Woolbert, a research associate at Bridgewater Associates, said.
"We are in the beginning of a slightly bearish pattern for the bond market," said Jack Malvey, chief global fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers. "The bond market is worried that the realized rate of inflation a year from now could be higher."
Mr. Malvey thinks that the yield on the 30-year bond, 5.85 percent on Friday, will move over 6 percent before it has a chance to move back down toward 5.25 percent. The yield on the 10-year note, which was 5.49 percent Friday, could be as high as 6 percent by the end of the year, he said.
In addition to the negative of stepped-up inflation -- or, in part, perhaps because of it -- the Federal Reserve, which sparked a nice rally in the fixed-income markets with five, half-point rate cuts that began in January, may soon stop reducing rates. In a speech Thursday night in New York, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, indicated that the aggressive part of the central bank's easing may be over. This raises the possibility that there might not be a sixth rate cut when Fed policy makers meet at the end of June. If there is a cut, it is more likely now to be just a quarter point. In this environment, an investor does not have a lot of choices. The prospect of a sour second half of the year might tempt some to shift a portion of their fixed-income investments into the stock market. Lehman Brothers chief United States strategist, Jeffrey M. Applegate, has already recommended doing this.
BUT some investors may want to keep their money in bonds because they are not confident about the equity outlook or they missed much of the rally in stocks so far and think there will be little more. Their option is to go for higher yield by adding junk bonds or even investing in the debt of emerging countries. The higher yield could offset some of the loss of capital as bond prices slip because rates would move higher.
But reaching for higher yield adds risk to a portfolio. Argentina's announcement of a bond swap last week may improve the outlook for emerging-market bonds. Whether the swap is successful, however, will not be clear until the deal is closed June 4.
The saving grace is that this has not been a bad year so far for fixed-income securities other than the Treasury's. The total return for investment-grade corporate bonds is 4 percent, according to the Lehman Brothers' bond indexes, outdoing Treasuries, adjusted for differences in maturities, by almost 2.5 percentage points. This is the best outperformance for this sector in more than a decade. High-yield bonds have also done well and investors must hope this cushion will be enough to give them a good 2001.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Corporate Rebound"The amount by which investment-grade corporate bonds have outperformed or underperformed comparable Treasuries. Graph shows which bonds OUTPERFORMED U.S. TREASURIES and UNDERPERFORMED U.S. TREASURIES from 1991-May 15, 2001. Adjusted for the differences in maturities between corporate and Treasury securities. (Source: Lehman Brothers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); INSURANCE (72%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CORPORATE BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



726 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Gulf Coast Oyster Farmers Try Self-Regulation

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
IN the days before his trip to New Orleans last March, Michael Laird could not stop talking about oysters. It had been a long time since Mr. Laird, a professor at the University of Wisconsin at Whitewater, had splurged on the squishy delight of oysters, and he could barely wait to slurp down more. The very idea made his students cringe, but Mr. Laird paid them no mind. Only a select few understood the allure. 
 As soon as he returned, though, Mr. Laird had to call in sick. Within two days, what had felt like the flu had become bad enough to put him in intensive care. His blood pressure fell. One by one, his organs shut down. Mr. Laird died a day later. 
 "It happened so quickly that everybody was just numb," said Ronald Crabb, the chairman of the business law and finance department where Mr. Laird had taught. 
The oysters, it turned out, had played host to another Gulf Coast specialty, a marine organism called Vibrio vulnificus. The same shallow, warm inlets that make the Gulf of Mexico so perfect for growing sweet and plump oysters also provide the ideal breeding ground for the deadly bacteria. 
The Vibrio bacterium kills nearly half of the people it infects, giving it the highest mortality rate of any foodborne illness. Almost all the cases stem from eating raw oysters from the handful of states that span the Gulf Coast like a crescent: Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. 
The Food and Drug Administration estimates that 12 million to 30 million Americans who suffer from a range of illnesses, including diabetes, AIDS and liver disease, are susceptible to infection by the bacteria. Yet because only a tiny percentage of them get sick and fewer than 20 people a year die from eating raw oysters, the industry has managed to stave off strict regulation, using political connections that spread as far and wide as a Louisiana bayou. 
Now, though, the same industry leaders who once railed against tight restrictions are embracing them. Less than a decade after enlisting a cadre of Southern senators and representatives to foil similar efforts by regulators, some of the industry's most prominent businesses are backing a plan that could cost them millions of dollars -- or even shut them down for several months each year. No longer are they arguing that the threat, while admittedly dire on some occasions, is too small to justify regulations that would constrict the industry.
"The industry has matured," said Mike Voisin, the owner of Motivatit Seafood in Houma, La., and the co-chairman of the Gulf Oyster Industry Council, a trade group. "We don't just run to our congressman anymore." 
Only about $40 million worth of oysters, a third of the nation's harvest, is pulled out of the Gulf of Mexico every year. But small as the Gulf Coast oyster industry is, its change of heart helps explain why food companies of every kind are picking up the banner of food safety -- not out of a sudden surge of altruism but because of the economic pitfalls of selling a risky product. 
Since Vibrio vulnificus first became well known a decade ago, the price of Gulf Coast oysters has dropped nearly 30 percent, as demand has all but dried up in markets like Chicago and New York. 
That free fall occurred even as oyster harvests from the Gulf diminished, according to data from Louisiana State University, challenging the axiom that a dip in supply sends prices soaring. "It really is terrible for marketing when somebody dies eating your product," said Sam D. Slavich, a fourth-generation oyster farmer. "A lot of oyster harvesters have given up." 
Oyster farmers have another incentive: a threat from regulators in California, one of the industry's biggest markets, to restrict raw oysters in the summer, when the Gulf of Mexico gets bath-water warm and the bacteria flourish.
Last year, after four Californians died from eating Gulf Coast oysters, state health officials warned consumers not to eat any raw oysters from those waters. It is possible to treat an infected person, but only if the illness is caught in its initial stages and then only with large doses of antibiotics. 
Given that few doctors around the country are even familiar with the disease, California health officials said that they would consider an outright ban unless businesses quickly brought down the illness rate by switching to production methods that kill lingering bacteria shortly after the oysters have been harvested.
"That, of course, is an inspiration that they have to have," said Stuart E. Richardson, head of food and drugs for the California Department of Health Services.
Industry officials said that keeping customers safe has always been a concern -- though education, not regulation, has been their preferred route. But because warning signs in restaurants and leaflets describing who is at risk have done little to prevent deaths, industry officials said that they were open to trying something more constraining.
In a proposal that is being considered by the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference, the group of state agencies that regulates the nation's shellfish, the Gulf states will have to cut illnesses by 60 percent in the next seven years. The states will largely get to choose how they bring down the illness rate. But if they do not succeed, the industry may be required to adopt expensive pasteurization techniques like high-pressure pumps and hot-water baths, or simply stop gathering oysters from May through September, when the risk of infection is highest, a move harvesters have long opposed.
The plan still needs official approval from the states and its chances for that are unclear. Some regulators and health officials find it too aggressive and ambitious, even though the industry would shoulder most of the cost. Prices of the huge steel tanks necessary to kill bacteria with heat or pressure start around $250,000. That number can climb to more than $1 million, a considerable amount for the small family businesses that have traditionally been the cornerstone of the industry.
EVEN if the plan passes, some health advocates contend that it allows too much time before any of the restrictions take effect. The Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group, has petitioned the Food and Drug Administration to require immediate pasteurization of all raw oysters from the gulf, a prospect that many in the industry are not ready to accept quite yet.
In fact, a growing fear that the F.D.A. might approve the petition is pushing the industry toward change of its own design. In past years, industry officials found a sympathetic ear in their Congressional representatives, who told the agency to back off until less-controversial approaches like public education had a chance to work. 
Now that such measures appear to have failed, industry officials doubt they can garner enough allies in Congress to block regulatory changes much longer.
"If nothing else seems to be working, I don't think anyone in Congress will stand up and support us simply because we're their constituents and they like us," said Chris Nelson, vice president of Bon Secour Fisheries in Bon Secour, Ala., and a member of an industry trade group. "There's a certain sense of frustration and resignation that we don't have any other options."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Crowell, above, processes raw oysters at the Bon Secour Fisheries in Bon Secour, Ala., while Thomas Prim, right, shucks oysters on the half shell. The industry is under pressure to reduce the risks from eating raw oysters. (Photographs by John David Mercer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BACTERIA (93%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); AQUACULTURE (78%); SHELLFISH FARMING (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (70%); DIABETES (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (54%); LIVER DISEASE (50%) FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; VIBRIO VULNIFICUS (BACTERIA); OYSTERS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

PERSON: WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) GULF OF MEXICO; ALABAMA; LOUISIANA; FLORIDA; TEXAS; MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



727 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Yes, Layoffs Still Hurt, Even During Good Times

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
WHEN Becky Jackson lost her job in November, she thought it might actually be a good thing. After working 17 years at the Colonial Penn Group, she had become a little bored as a customer-service agent, answering phone calls about car insurance.
 So, after General Electric, which had bought Colonial Penn in 1997, laid off Ms. Jackson and about 120 other workers in Tampa, Fla., she took her six months' worth of severance pay and enrolled in classes to get her insurance license. With it, she figured she could get another job, and perhaps a better one, selling insurance or adjusting insurance claims. "I thought, 'Everybody's going to want me,' " said Ms. Jackson, while sitting in a Tampa unemployment office two weeks ago, waiting to talk to a job counselor. "And then I got out there, and it's like, 'Why won't anyone hire me?' " 
 Ms. Jackson eventually found a job selling advertisements for a local publication. She gets off work at 5 p.m., early enough to pick up her 3-year-old at day care in case her husband's postal route keeps him at work late. But her new job pays significantly less than the $39,400 she had been earning before, and she will have to try to make up the difference with sales commissions, she said.
Ms. Jackson's story may seem out of place in the "Free Agent Nation," to borrow the title from a current book by Daniel H. Pink describing the new American worker. Review, Page 6. 
In the era of the flexible work force, being laid off does not seem as though it should be as painful as it once was -- particularly for someone with experience and a willingness to learn new skills.
Companies may have eliminated millions of jobs over the last decade, but they have created millions more. The unemployment rate has been below 5 percent for 46 straight months, and even as the economy has slowed, many executives continue to say they cannot find enough qualified workers.
Still, the effect of an involuntary job loss has actually changed little over the last 20 years, according to a recent study by Henry S. Farber, a Princeton economist. Through booms and busts, whether the unemployment rate has been rising or falling, layoffs have forced workers to take pay cuts averaging 11 percent, relative to what they would have been earning if they had been able to keep their old jobs.
That is a mouthful, so Mr. Farber's research is worth parsing. He starts by examining a survey the United States Census regularly conducts of people who left their jobs at some point over three previous years for reasons unrelated to them personally. They did not quit and were not fired; instead, perhaps, a plant closed or a merger caused layoffs.
The survey asks the workers what they earned in their old jobs and what they make in the ones they have found to replace them. The gap between the two salaries does indeed fluctuate with the economy. In the late 1990's, there was virtually no gap. By the early 1990's, people who had lost their jobs had to take pay cuts of more than 10 percent in their new positions.
But when Mr. Farber compared their salary losses to the rest of the population, a striking consistency emerged. Using the data on average wages to estimate what the displaced workers would have been making had their original jobs not been eliminated, he found that layoffs caused about an 11 percent pay cut for most of the last two decades.
In good times, the displaced workers miss out on raises they would have received. Someone who was making $40,000 a year when he lost his job might find a new one that three years later is paying him $40,000 again. In the meantime, however, the typical person who had been making $40,000 and kept his job has received an 11 percent raise to nearly $45,000. In bad times, when most workers are receiving only slight pay increases, displaced workers actually fall behind where they had been.
FOR the majority of Americans, the big worry is that those bad times are here again. Unemployment has risen a half of a percentage point in the last four months, which historically is an indication that joblessness will continue to increase in the coming year. If layoffs continue at their current pace, they could reverse the pay increases of the last five years, increases that themselves reversed more than two decades of stagnating real income for most workers.
"There should be tremendous concern," Lawrence F. Katz, an economist at Harvard, said. "While the last few years have been great for improving opportunity, they don't offset the 25 years before that." They are also unlikely to protect people from the pain that layoffs cause, even in the dynamic American economy.

GRAPHIC: ChartLoss of income from layoffs is not always apparent. A study of surveys of displaced workers shows that in good times or bad the loss is similar. 1997-'99INITIAL PAY CUT AT NEW JOB: 0.9%PAY LOSS RELATIVE TO THOSE WHO KEPT JOB: 12.0% 1983-'85INITIAL PAY CUT AT NEW JOB: 7.3%PAY LOSS RELATIVE TO THOSE WHO KEPT JOB: 12.0% (Source: Henry S. Farber)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (76%); SALES COMPENSATION (76%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (72%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); TRENDS (71%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PERSONAL FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); COLONIAL PENN GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%) SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID; FARBER, HENRY S 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



728 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
After a Bailout, a Wedding

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
A CHARMING little deconsecrated convent stands on the edge of Mexico City amid cobblestoned streets. It's the National Museum of Foreign Intervention, and it is on the site of one of Mexico's more important military defeats, at the hands of United States forces in 1847.
 After that battle, the United States stole half of Mexico fair and square, taking everything from Texas to California and more. People here do not forget the invasions of the gringos, or their power and influence. 
 So what does it mean that the worsted-suit armies of Citigroup have bought Mexico's second-largest bank, Banamex, and that all of Mexico's three biggest financial institutions and close to 70 percent of its finance system are now foreign owned? It means that Mexico is coming, kicking and screaming, into modernity; that institutions are taking power where individuals once reigned, and that the border laid down more than 150 years ago is beginning to fade.
To understand this transformation, a bit of history helps -- specifically, of the years since the debt crisis from which an American bailout rescued Mexico.
Mexico's banks have been fiefs of personal power, second only perhaps to the presidency. But they were unstable edifices built on shaky foundations, prone to crumble.
Six years ago, in early 1995, the banks were technically bankrupt. The peso had collapsed and the financial system almost went down with it. Inflation approached 100 percent and the Mexican government had to put together a $100 billion, taxpayer-financed banking bailout.
The results rivaled the savings-and-loan scandals in the United States in the 1980's. An audit for Mexico's Congress found at least $7.8 billion in sweetheart loans gone sour, the money handed out to 3,300 politically wired borrowers. Mexican banking executives were charged with defrauding shareholders of hundreds of millions of dollars.
Citibank, a presence in Mexico since 1929 and now part of Citigroup, made $1.1 million in fees moving $80 million to $100 million out of Mexico for Raul Salinas de Gortari, a brother of the former president of Mexico, according to United States congressional investigators. They said the money went through New York and into accounts in London and Switzerland for a Cayman Islands shell corporation, and that the bank ignored its own safeguards against money laundering. Citibank denied any criminal wrongdoing and asserted that the investigators' report contained unspecified errors, 
Beyond outright fraud or questionable practices, Mexico lived with incompetence. Billions in loans had been based on handshakes. Bankers had little or no real data on debtors. 
The consequences, save for the rich, were dire. Credit dried up, and all but big businesses went begging for cash. Even as its free-trade pact with the United States was taking hold, Mexico looked like it might fall apart -- and take other nations with it. 
In January 1995, two weeks into the financial crisis, the masters of American finance capital -- Alan Greenspan and Robert Rubin, then in his first few days as treasury secretary -- put together a $40 billion rescue package, which took shape in meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Mr. Rubin, heeding desperate pleas from Mexico's leaders, persuaded President Clinton and Congress to send the billions. For his part, Mr. Greenspan warned the committee that Mexico was "the house next door," and the house was burning down, sending "cinders going in our direction."
The fire went out, slowly. President Ernesto Zedillo helped fight it, building Mexico's foreign reserves from $3 billion to nearly $40 billion. Financiers from Spain -- who now control two of Mexico's three biggest financial institutions -- gingerly stepped in to buy some of Mexico's battered banks, as did the Canadians and British.
Mexico has repaid the Americans, and its trade with the United States boomed with the American economy in the late 1990's. In recent months, its new president, Vicente Fox, has moved to increase oversight of banks and insider trading. And the World Bank has a $505 million loan in the works.
The foreign influence, the interdependence with the United States -- and, most significantly, Mr. Fox's defeat last year of the sclerotic Democratic Revolutionary Party, which had ruled for 71 years, meant that the old soldiers who ran Mexico into something resembling the Great Depression have been fading away.
NOT all is sweetness and light, though. The peso is suddenly so strong it is inflating the prices of Mexico's exports. The slowing United States economy is cutting in half Mexico's seven-percent growth of last year. And the nation still sags under its decrepit and sometimes dishonest legal system.
But the Citigroup deal shows that Mexico is emerging from its financial crisis and can keep rising, if laws, not men, increasingly regulate banks and business -- and if Mexico's precious sense of sovereignty keeps slowly giving way to international standards.
So, last month, when Mr. Rubin, now vice chairman of Citigroup, took a call from Mexico, a new flame was burning. The call came from an ardent suitor -- Robert Hernandez, chairman of Banamex -- and the deal was consummated in five weeks, less than it often takes to get a mortgage approved in the United States. Mr. Hernandez knew he was marrying up, but Citigroup and Mexico are getting wedding presents, too.
The Americans at Citigroup now will have access to a huge market that needs loans -- money for homes and small businesses that middle-class and poor people in Mexico rarely have received from their banks. Mexico is losing a bank, but it is gaining influence in the world's largest financial group. And Mexicans may see more of what goes on in high finance, since their banking disclosure and insider-trading laws will likely be strengthened.
And the deal spoke to the idea that Americans should stop looking down when they look south. "It shows absolute confidence in our country," President Fox said, and in the hope that after the fire, Mexico's laws and institutions can put down roots and grow until they weave themselves into those of its long-ago enemy.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the takeover of a Mexican bank by Citigroup misidentified the party whose 71 years of national dominance ended when Vicente Fox won the Mexican presidency last year. It is the Institutional Revolutionary Party, not the Democratic Revolutionary Party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexicans protested the sale of Banamex by pasting toy dollars on the bankers' club. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); GRUPO FINANCIERO BANAMEX/ACCIVAL SA DE CV (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; BANAMEX (MEXICAN BANK) 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%)

PERSON: WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); SWITZERLAND (74%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



729 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Soaring REIT's Shine as Stocks Sag

BYLINE:  By DAN COLARUSSO 

 BODY:
AFTER spending two years in Wall Street's doghouse, real estate investment trusts are enjoying a kind of renaissance. Investors are learning to appreciate the steady revenues that come from rental property compared with the volatile prospects of, say, selling pet food on the Internet.
 The Amex Morgan Stanley REIT index, which has 111 components, is at a record high and up 20 percent since last May, far outperforming the sagging Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq. The issue now is whether the sector can remain strong as a slowing economy dampens rent growth and demand for office, store, hotel, apartment and industrial space. 
 Investors are gravitating to REIT's, which own and operate income-producing real estate and are required to pay almost all their earnings to shareholders, for their high dividends, which average around 7 percent, and for expected revenue growth of 7 percent in 2001 and 8 percent in 2002. 
"In 1998 and 1999, people couldn't give a darn about the dividends, but we've been retrained, and a roughly 15 percent total return is an awfully nice thing," said Jamie Handwerker, manager of Windridge Partners, a real estate-focused hedge fund run by ING Furman Selz Asset Management. "Since the tech stock crash, people's expectations are coming down." 
Increasingly, analysts and money managers are pointing to REIT's as a major diversification tool. That case will get some support this week when a study by Ibbotson Associates is released, showing REIT performance had only a 0.25 correlation with the S.& P. 500 in 2000, down from 0.65 in the 1980's and 0.45 in the 1990's. (The study was commissioned by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.) When statisticians measure correlations, a "1" is a perfect correlation between two trends, while a "minus 1" is a perfect inverse correlation. So the closer that the correlation of two markets is to 1, the less the diversification benefit of investing in both.
BUT if the tech stock crash pointed many investors toward REIT's for security, it rattled some others. These people worry about the wave of failing dot-coms, which has had a significant impact on the northern California real estate market, Ms. Handwerker said. Shares of Speiker, a West Coast office REIT that has agreed to be acquired by Equity Office Properties, "went down in a very meaningful way for a REIT" -- from just under $60 to around $48 -- in early 2001, primarily because of such exposure, she said. 
Such broad economic fears have tempered optimism. "We're running our business today on the basis that the economy may be a whole lot less robust," said Bill Rouse, the chairman and chief executive of Liberty Property Trust, a REIT based in Malvern, Pa., with 48 million square feet of office and industrial space. 
In the near term, Mr. Rouse said, the market will be under pressure not only from newly created space, but an additional 10 percent increase in space vacated by foundering companies and a slide in demand of between 10 percent and 15 percent. "That said, I don't think we have a situation where a catastrophe is around the corner," he said. "It's not hard to imagine REIT's increasing earnings 7 percent or 8 percent."
Still, he talks to his clients regularly to monitor the general health of their businesses and to determine how he should plan his own. "We see how many people there are walking through the door legitimately looking for more space," Mr. Rouse said. 
Experts said REIT's will probably be able to keep their growth rates moving even if the economy slows because office and industrial leases typically extend five to eight years, making them less susceptible to tenants' weaknesses. In the heyday of technology start-ups, REIT's required two-year letters of credit guaranteeing payment or they insisted that tenants pay to renovate the space.
The prices that tenants are paying help, too. After jumping 10.1 percent in 1997 from an advance of 5.4 percent in 1996, rental prices have risen more than 9 percent every year since, Jim Costello, a senior economist at Torto Wheaton Research in Boston, said. Yet, even if rent growth is flat in 2001, renewals are likely to be at significantly higher levels than leases signed in 1996.
"These companies don't have to sell a widget every day," Jonathan Litt, a REIT analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said. "That gives them an earnings stream that's very predictable." 
A larger concern may be the declining demand for space. Mr. Costello said that the first quarter of 2001 showed negative absorption in the office sector, meaning that more new unoccupied space was left vacant than rented. "It's not just the vacancy level that helps set the rents, it's the number of people coming to the door," Mr. Costello said. "With the number of people coming to the door declining, REIT's can't set their rents so high."
Yet even the hovering concern of a modest rise in inflation may turn out to be a positive for REIT's, said David Shulman, a REIT analyst for Lehman Brothers. Rents in the long run are determined by the costs of building. "If reproduction costs rise in response to inflation, so too will rents," he said. "If supply is tight then real rents will rise. With supply and demand in rough balance, REIT's should be able to reasonably push through an inflationary period."
So far this year, REIT's have withstood broader economic woes. In the first quarter of 2001, Salomon's Mr. Litt wrote recently, REIT's posted growth in funds from operations of 7.7 percent, compared with the average 10.6 percent earnings decline posted by the S.& P. 500. However, REIT's are still trading at a discount of roughly 10 percent to their net asset value.
Then, there is the dividend. Boston Properties, an industry giant, offers a 5.8 percent dividend; Equity Office Properties yields 6.4 percent and Vornado Realty Trust boasts a dividend of 5.8 percent. This cushions any slide in market values. 
On the negative side, consolidation activity has dented the shares of blue-chip REIT's such as Equity Office Properties, which has agreed to buy Speiker for $4.48 billion, and those of Archstone Communties Trust, which agreed to acquire Charles Smith for $2.2 billion. These have been "unfairly penalized because of the mergers," said Mr. Shulman, who has eight REIT's, including Equity Office and Archstone, rated as strong buys.
IN late March, another large REIT, Vornado, which is run by Steven Roth, pulled out of a deal to buy New York's World Trade Center complex for $3.25 billion, throwing a wrench into the expansion plans of that firm.
That might not be a totally negative development. Mr. Litt said he remained concerned about suitors paying too much for other companies and for properties and overbuilding in markets such as Atlanta and Dallas. For the most part, however, he said REIT's were disciplined in the late 1990's, a contrast to the 1980's when developers built too much on borrowed money.
"This time, real estate isn't the main event in the economic downturn," Mr. Shulman said. "It's just a sideshow."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Iomega Corporation occupies Liberty Property Trust's building in Whitsett, N.C.; A REIT was the top bidder for Manhattan's World Trade Center, but lost out to a group of developers in the end. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (58%) REAL ESTATE; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (REIT); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: ING FURMAN SELZ ASSET MANAGEMENT (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); LRY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%)

PERSON: COLARUSSO, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



730 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Cooling Housing Market Chills Stocks

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
Most stocks retreated last week as a fresh set of economic data showed further weakness in the economy. 
 This time, the housing market, the one sector of the economy that had seemed immune to the slowdown, was the source of the bad news, with housing starts and existing-home sales both falling from previous highs. 
 The sudden change of power in the Senate took a toll on pharmaceutical stocks on concerns that their profits would fall as Democrats tried to rein in drug costs. 
 There were a few bright spots. Technology stocks continued to rebound as investors returned to a sector they expect to lead the way when the economy recovers. 
 Buoyed by such optimism, the technology-heavy Nasdaq rose to 2,251.03, up 52.15 points, or 2.4 percent. But the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell to 1,277.89, down 14.07 points, or 1.1 percent. The Dow industrials fared even worse, finishing at 11,005.37, off 296.37 points, or 2.6 percent. 
 In the bond market, concerns that the Federal Reserve would continue cutting interest rates despite signs of rising inflation caused a selloff. The yield on the 10-year note rose to 5.49 percent from 5.45 percent the week before.
 DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" Bristol-Myers SquibbNYSE: BMYConsumer goods giant Procter & Gamble agreed to buy the drug maker's Clairol hair-care business for $4.95 billion in cash.Friday's Close: $54.20Week's Change: -3.21%EST. '01 P/E: 22.19 PharmaciaNYSE: PHAThe company disclosed that it had received a letter from the Food and Drug Administration indicating its Vestra antidepression drug would not be approved.Friday's Close: $48.56Week's Change: -2.10%EST. '01 P/E: 27.67 Ford MotorNYSE: FFirestone ended its 100-year tire pact with the automaker as relations were strained by Ford's recall of 13 million Firestone tires.Friday's Close: $24.74Week's Change: -8.81%EST. '01 P/E: 10.52 Inhale TherapeuticSystemsNNM: INHLThe supplier of aerosol used for insulin inhalers is expected to benefit from increased use of an inhaled form of insulin that safely controls blood sugar levels in diabetics for two years.Friday's Close: $28.61Week's Change: +10.51%EST. '01 P/E: -- KopinNNM: KOPNThe maker of semiconductor materials is developing new transistors that could produce clearer signals and use less power in mobile phones than current ones.Friday's Close: $12.14Week's Change: +22.01%EST. '01 P/E: -- IntelNYSE: INTCThe chip giant began selling four new microprocessors that consume less power than its current laptop chips.Friday's Close: $29.10Week's Change: +1.18%EST. '01 P/E: 52.43 CienaNNM: CIENThe maker of fiber optic equipment reached its first supply agreement with AT&T, the nation's No.1 long-distance phone company.Friday's Close: $60.34Week's Change: +5.21%EST. '01 P/E: 81.87 Dell ComputerNNM: DELLThe company's president, James Vanderslice, declared a full-scale price war in a bid to increase market share and said the company might even make an acquisition with its huge cash reserves.Friday's Close: $27.00Week's Change: +8.91%EST. '01 P/E: 38.19 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INFLATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



731 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: At Placebo Consulting, We're as Good as it Gets 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Getting Amazoned, And Other Fantasies; Eek! What Have E-Consultants Wrought?" (May 13), which discussed how consultants helped fuel the Internet bubble: 
 Even before seeing the article, I recently came up with a new business model that I called Placebo Consulting. 
The business model is simple: Companies spend millions each year on outside consultants without ever testing whether they are effective. At Placebo Consulting we provide personnel who appear as if they are experts but actually know nothing. The hiring company would assign a small part of a project to Placebo as well as to an established firm and compare the results. If Placebo produced similar or superior results, it would call into question the expenditure on high-priced consultants.
Higher initial costs associated with duplicate work on test samples would be more than offset in long-term savings by reduced use of consultants. If companies are able to reduce their consulting costs by a mere 5 percent, the market for our services could reach into the billions. Placebo Consulting, sometimes we're as good as the next guy.

CHARLES SHOOPAK
Hoboken, N.J., May 14


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSULTANTS 

PERSON: SHOOPAK, CHARLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



732 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Big Lie

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
So the Senate is about to change hands. Well, maybe that will make a difference. But there's a growing body of evidence that the usual rules don't apply to this administration. It came into power despite losing the popular vote, it has successfully governed until now as if it had a powerful mandate, and it has managed to sidestep ordinary restrictions like the one that says that you have to present a budget that specifies spending as well as tax cuts. 
 And now, despite the fact that the budget resolution called for a substantially smaller tax cut than the administration wanted, the tax cut agreed to in conference is actually almost as big as the administration's original proposal. 
 It's true that one item, the reduction in the tax rate on the top bracket, is a bit smaller than the administration wanted. But don't weep for the rich: the top 1 percent of taxpayers will still receive about 37 percent of the total tax cut once the plan is fully implemented; the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers will receive only 15 percent of the cut. The administration's determination to deliver a huge tax cut to America's wealthiest families, never mind the cost, has prevailed.
So how did the conferees manage to preserve almost the whole Bush tax cut despite a budget resolution that should have forced a substantially smaller cut? They lied.
Now in a way this is nothing new. Throughout the selling of this tax cut, its advocates have engaged in a disinformation campaign unprecedented in the history of U.S. economic policy -- misrepresenting who would benefit from the plan (pretending that a tax cut mainly for the rich is actually aimed at the middle class) and understating its effects on revenue. Indeed, the pretense that taxes can be sharply cut without undermining the fiscal integrity of the nation has been maintained via financial fakery that, if practiced by the executives of any publicly traded company, would have landed them in jail. 
Still, the fraud perpetrated late Friday night takes fiscal chicanery to a completely new level. 
To understand what went down, you need to realize that Congress makes 10-year budgets, which are supposed to include consistent projections of revenues and outlays over the next decade -- in this case, through the end of 2011. There's a lot wrong with that 10-year horizon. It encourages fiscal scams, like backloading tax breaks so that their true cost is hidden in the out-years; this final tax bill will surely reduce revenue by well over $4 trillion in its second decade. And the 10-year horizon is especially damaging at a time when the main fiscal concern of the federal government ought to be how to pay Social Security and Medicare benefits to the baby boom generation, which will start to retire -- guess what -- 11 years from now.
But never in my wildest dreams did I imagine that the tax cutters would engage in Friday's final scam.
Here's what they did: they made the tax bill fit within the budget resolution by assuming that the whole tax cut will expire at the end of 2010. That is, they simply waved their hands and made all the revenue that will actually be lost in the last year of the 10-year period -- hundreds of billions of dollars -- disappear from the accounting. One of my Capitol Hill contacts calls this "the miracle of the loaves and fishes." 
Need I point out that absolutely nobody who supports this tax bill thinks of it as a temporary measure, to be canceled at the end of nine years? This is white-collar crime, pure and simple. We should call in the Securities and Exchange Commission, and send the whole crew -- Democrats like Senator John Breaux and Senator Max Baucus as well as their Republican partners in crime -- to a minimum-security installation somewhere unpleasant. 
Until Friday night, I thought that the fraudulence of the tax plan would take a few months to become totally obvious. But I underestimated the smirking contempt of the tax cutters for the public's intelligence.
One last point: we should be aware of what a huge disservice Senator James Jeffords has just done the nation. As a gesture of gentlemanly courtesy, he delayed the shift of Senate control from the Republican Party until the tax bill went through. The result is this abomination. Should a gentleman aid and abet his colleagues in fraud? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



733 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Ambivalence Prevails in Immigration Policy 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
The United States spends as much as $2 billion a year to build walls, post 24-hour patrols and crack down on illegal immigrants streaming across its 2,000-mile border with Mexico. 
 Once inside the border, however, illegal immigrants who evade the Border Patrol and survive scorching deserts and treacherous mountains find a nation that is increasingly willing to ignore laws that forbid hiring them and to embrace them in homes and workplaces. 
 Labor-strapped employers risk steep fines and even jail to hire undocumented workers. Some lawmakers who have voted to increase the Border Patrol scream in protest if raids by the Immigration and Naturalization Service upset businesses in their districts. More states are issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants for public safety reasons and in recognition that the immigrants are here to stay. 
"There's a fundamental ambivalence in our nation over what to do about illegal immigrants who are living in our communities and who have become contributing members," said Joseph R. Greene, the immigration service's assistant commissioner for investigations. 
To be sure, illegal immigrants still confront tough laws aimed at deterring them from coming here. On any day, the I.N.S. detains 20,000 immigrants in government facilities or county jails, most awaiting deportation. 
But even as President Bush called President Vicente Fox of Mexico on Friday and expressed "deep sadness and condolences" over the deaths of 14 migrants in the Arizona desert this week, the incident has highlighted the country's conflicting stands on immigration.
On the one hand, Mr. Bush has tried to live up to his pro-immigrant campaign position. He has urged Congress to extend a deadline for illegal immigrants to apply for legal residency in the United States without first returning to their home country. He has also agreed to allow thousands of Salvadorans living here illegally to remain in the United States for up to 18 months to help El Salvador recover from several devastating earthquakes.
Yet there is no consensus on solutions for stanching the flow of at least 300,000 immigrants who enter the country illegally or overstay legal visas every year.
Advocates of a more restrictionist immigration policy argue that tough border enforcement must be coupled with tougher interior enforcement. "We're essentially dangling jobs in front of these people, but they have to run the gantlet to get them," said Mark S. Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, an independent, nonprofit research organization. 
But in a sign of the priorities of the I.N.S. and Congress, there are 9,400 Border Patrol agents, compared with the equivalent of 300 full-time I.N.S. agents to enforce workplace laws.
Because of the political repercussions, Mr. Greene said, the I.N.S. has virtually abandoned large raids on employers, except for those suspected of collaborating with smugglers or displacing native-born workers.
There are some tangible signs that American society is more willing to treat illegal immigrants as de facto community members than as criminals. 
In a step that immigration experts say would have been inconceivable a few years ago, Utah, North Carolina and Tennessee are issuing driver's licenses to illegal immigrants. Several other states, including Texas, Illinois, California and Minnesota, are considering such a move. 
This serves a public safety purpose by training and testing immigrants who are driving anyway. But it also grants to foreigners who are breaking the law just by being here a valuable piece of identification they can use in many ways, including applying for a job and cashing checks.
At the same time, immigrants have become a powerful force that politicians are loath to anger. For the first time since the 1930's, one of every 10 Americans is foreign born. Both political parties are aggressively wooing Hispanics, who have drawn even with blacks as the nation's largest minority. 
While in some polls Hispanics have expressed ambivalence toward illegal immigration, they have punished candidates -- Republicans in particular -- for anti-immigrant positions. 
"All of this has been a part of a new discussion to have policies match reality rather than bend reality to match policies," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigrant advocacy group. 
In many respects, the conflicting impulses today are a backlash against the anti-immigrant backlash of the mid-1990's championed by Gov. Pete Wilson of California. Mr. Wilson, a Republican, was re-elected on the back of Proposition 187, which put tough restrictions on services for illegal immigrants and their children. Though voters overwhelmingly supported the proposition, it was later voided by the courts. 
Since then, a booming economy has made immigrant labor a coveted commodity. Were the nation's estimated six million to nine million illegal immigrants expelled tomorrow, thousands of hotels, restaurants, poultry-processing plants, landscaping companies and garment factories would very likely close. 
Mr. Bush's election signified the ascension of the pro-immigrant wing of the Republican Party, which still has powerful anti-immigrant critics. 
And other powerful forces that once were critical of open immigration are courting the new residents. After years of viewing immigrants as a threat, competing for jobs and depressing wage levels, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last year called for amnesty for all illegal workers, seeing immigrants as potential union members. 
While most experts agree that greater prosperity in Mexico is the ultimate solution to keeping its people home, Doris M. Meissner, the I.N.S. commissioner under President Bill Clinton, said cross-border cooperation could ease the problem.
"The border needs to be a place where the flows of people and goods are regulated," Ms. Meissner said. "What the U.S. has been doing in recent years is bringing some order out of the chaos."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fence separating Nogales, Ariz., right, from Nogales, Mexico, does little to discourage illegal immigrants. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); DESERTS (72%); CRIMINAL FINES (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); DRIVERS LICENSES (54%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%) SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NOGALES, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%) MEXICO; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



734 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-13

NATO Plan for Bosnia: Modest Troop Reductions
Resisting Pentagon pressure, NATO has decided to make only modest cuts in its peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, officials said. Under a plan expected to be announced on Tuesday, the alliance's peacekeeping force would be reduced from 21,000 to 18,000 and the U.S. contingent would be reduced to 3,100. 4

Powell Nudges Kenya's Leader
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell met with Daniel arap Moi, who has been Kenya's president since 1978, and urged him to step aside and let a new president be elected next year. It repeated a message General Powell had sent to the president of Zimbabwe during a visit earlier this week. 12

Air Time in Iran Campaign
Iran's 10 presidential candidates gave a round of interviews this week, but most attention remained focused on the incumbent president, Mohammad Khatami, who is pledging to press ahead with his drive to open up the political system. 13

No Victory Lap for Blair
Prime Minister Tony Blair is widely expected to win the June 7 British election in a walk, but the same polls that show him with double-digit leads over his principal opponent, the Conservative, William Hague, also show high levels of dissatisfaction with the state of the country and his government's response to it. 10

Blast in Bogota Streets
A bombing attack Friday morning outside National University, the second blast in Colombia in a week, brought political violence in Colombia's countryside into the city and renewed fears that a terror campaign may be in the making. 6

NATIONAL 14-28

Congress Approves $1.35 Trillion Tax Cut
Congress gave final approval to a $1.35 trillion tax cut -- the biggest in a generation -- voting to reduce all income tax rates over the next five years and to give the weakened economy a quick jolt by sending rebates to taxpayers this summer. 1

There is still some doubt about whether the federal budget surplus will appear as forecast. But even if it does, it most likely will not cover everything that Democrats and Republicans have on their wish lists. 1

As the Senate prepares for a shift to Democratic control, Republicans are warning that they could tie the Senate in procedural knots unless they are assured that President Bush's judicial nominees and other appointees can be brought up for votes on the Senate floor. 26

Herbs in the Mainstream
Big companies like Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble have begun embellishing their products with herbal remedies that are popular, but largely unproven. 1

The Plains Are Changing
The census shows that the all-white counties of the Great Plains are emptying out and American Indians are moving back in. 1

Details in McVeigh Documents
Information supporting an eyewitness account is said to have been found among documents in the Timothy J. McVeigh case. 14

Racist Group Pays a Visit
The National Alliance posted white-supremacist signs in York, Pa., which is embroiled in the investigation of a long-ago race riot. 14

NEW YORK/REGION 29-35

Imprisonment in Vieques Protest May Have Big Ramifications
Many of New York's politicians are wondering what the political consequences might be for the self-described "Vieques Four," four New York politicians who have been jailed for protests over bombing tests on an island off Puerto Rico. 31

Staten Island Beaches Closed
Swimming at city beaches on Staten Island was prohibited during the weekend because of high bacteria levels, but the gloomy weather made the ban a moot point. 32

Arrest in Paving Stone Case
Detectives arrested one of two men whom they have sought in the killing of a father of four who was beaten with a paving stone in the lobby of his Queens apartment building eight months ago, the police said. 35

Fresh Air Fund 32

OBITUARIES 36

Lloyd Shearer
A Hollywood fixture whose Personality Parade column in Parade magazine -- written under the name Walter Scott -- reached as many as 50 million readers, he was 84. 36

Chess 35
Sunday Q & A 24
Cong. Vote 35
Weather 37

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); EYEWITNESSES (64%); INCOME TAX (63%); TESTIMONY (63%); HERBAL MEDICINE (60%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (60%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); CENSUS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (54%) KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



735 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Tell a Truce From a War 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: AGHDAM, Azerbaijan 

 BODY:
Having lost her husband and her life's belongings in Azerbaijan's long-playing war with Armenia, Anya Huseneva says she has but one wish: to quit the disease-ridden refugee camp where she lives, 30 miles away, and return home to this city, which has been under Armenian control since 1993. 
 "My husband's only desire was for his homeland," she wailed, tears streaming down her face. "We can't live without Aghdam, our city." 
 Little does she know that she has lost Aghdam, too. After some 50,000 Azeris like Ms. Huseneva fled nearly a decade ago, the wave of looting that followed stripped this city to its foundations. Today, Aghdam lies in spectacular ruin, a weed-infested rubble of contorted metal and toppled walls. The graffiti-covered central mosque has been taken over by about three dozen cows. Not a single building stands intact. 
"It was turned into the largest Home Depot on the planet," said Carey Cavanaugh, an American special negotiator in the conflict, as he wheeled his minivan into Aghdam. 
Among Azeri refugees like Ms. Huseneva, "there is an understanding that the city is destroyed," he said. "But I don't think they have a concept of just how destroyed it is. Coming back and seeing this will be very hard for them." 
The ruins are a result of the war that has been waged off and on since 1988 between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountain enclave of spectacular beauty whose population has been heavily Armenian for the last century but which lies within the territory of rival Azerbaijan. 
Six years of hot war and another seven of barely enforced truce have further calcified enmities stretching back a thousand years and more. 
Leaders of both nations have been loath to suggest that peace would require concessions and compromises, such as sharing or giving up land, that might be seen as weakness. Negotiations brokered by the United States, Russia and France have lately generated the outline of an accord to end the war. But the nature of that outline is itself a secret, and people on both sides have little concept of the hardships any final accord would bring. 
In the absence of any national consensus on peace, the two sides continue to endure a truce that has been almost as devastating as the war that killed at least 30,000 people, and made refugees of perhaps a million more. 
Nagorno-Karabakh is a land of thousand-foot cliffs, forests and volcanoes with scenery that mimics Switzerland in one moment, Tuscany the next. Soviet rule put a tight lid on the nationalist sentiments of the ethnic Armenians until the Soviet Union itself weakened in the late 1980's. A bloodbath followed. In Azerbaijan's capital, Baku, Azeris killed scores of Armenians, desecrated their cemeteries and evicted thousands more in pogroms. 
Thousands of Azeris and their graveyards met similar fates in Nagorno-Karabakh, whose Armenians declared independence from Azerbaijan in late 1991. Armenian troops eventually poured into Azerbaijan, secured Nagorno-Karabakh, routed Azeri forces and, as a final insult, seized a swath of Azeri territory before a truce took hold in 1994. 
And there matters stand. Azerbaijan staggers under the weight of hundreds of thousands of refugees from Armenian-occupied territory. Armenia, blockaded by Azerbaijan on one side and a hostile Turkey on the other, has slipped even deeper into poverty. At least 40 percent of its 3.5 million citizens have left since 1990. 
After seven years of cease-fire, practically every village in Nagorno-Karabakh and the surrounding Azerbaijani countryside still bears deep scars: buildings with their roofs ripped off, barns and warehouses reduced by combat to windowless shells.
From Stepanakert, the capital of the self-proclaimed Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh, a sharp tilt of the head brings into view the impossibly high town of Shusha, from whose cliffs Azeri troops lobbed shells that destroyed the town's silk factory, maternity hospital and many of its houses. 
The Armenians eventually took Shusha, drove out the Azeris and filled their war-shattered apartments with roughly 5,000 Armenian refugees, themselves driven out of Baku. They live there today, largely because they have no other place to go. They subsist on sugar and oil from the government and on the harvest from their own gardens. But there is also no thought of letting Azeris -- who have a rich history in the enclave -- return as part of a peace settlement.
Bhahatur Hachatrian is a 70-year-old Armenian who fled here with his wife and four children after living in Baku for 55 years. The Azeris, he said, told him either to leave town or be killed. And a 62-year-old economist, who lost her husband and father in the war, could not even begin to fathom the prospect of an Azeri return. "If they lived here," she said straight-faced, "then where would we live?" 
So it goes. For every Armenian insult to Azeris, there is a matching Azeri slap that Armenians will not forget. And for every Azeri like Tamara Apasova, who was driven from Shusha by Armenians, lost her husband, uncle and nephew in the war and has been reduced to living in a refugee camp in the Azerbaijani town of Aghjabedi, there is an Armenian like 64-year-old Zhena Agababyan, who was driven from Baku by Azeris and lost her husband in 1988. 
Ms. Agababyan has spent the last 12 years with her daughter Sveta in the Armenian town of Spitak, living in a metal shipping container. "Here are our papers," she said, waving a passport and assorted documents in unmistakable desperation. "Help us -- please help us. We left everything behind." 
Most want the war to end. The problem, said Mr. Cavanaugh, the American peace negotiator, is that few of them want a peace their enemy can also accept. "I don't think people have been well prepared to accept compromises for peace," he said. "I think they think that they'll have peace on their terms." 
The United States, Russia and France have been trying to broker a peace between Azerbaijan's president, Heydar Aliyev, and Armenia's president, Robert Kocharian. An April meeting between the two in Key West, Fla., produced the first concrete indications that a deal was in the works. 
But both leaders appear to be ahead of their people. The mere hint of compromise has led to an outcry among some in Azerbaijan's political opposition, and both presidents have backed off a bit from their earlier enthusiasm for a deal.
In recent months, the negotiators have upped the ante in the peace talks, holding out the prospect that an accord will net Armenia and Azerbaijan a flood of foreign aid and investment. 
"There's been a lot going on here. There's been a dialogue between both leaders in the last two years that we've never had before," Mr. Cavanaugh said. "Can they carry it to a conclusion? I don't know." 
 A summit meeting between the two presidents scheduled for June in Geneva has been postponed indefinitely, the Armenian Foreign Ministry announced Saturday, according to Agence France-Presse. A spokeswoman said the meeting was put off at the suggestion of the sponsors, who felt there was no chance for the moment of achieving further progress. 
Some Azeris who fled Aghdam a decade ago have given up on regaining their old lives and have left the refugee camps to find work in Baku. Mostly they are the men, leaving the women in the one-room stone huts of the Aghjabedi camp where Anya Huseneva and 3,200 other homeless Azeris live. 
In the camp there is some electricity but no running water. Ms. Huseneva's 22-year-old daughter, Parvana, says the settlement has been hit by malaria and that medicine is in short supply, which aid workers confirm. 
Charities have either abandoned food and medical aid in favor of job training, or abandoned the camp altogether. There are an additional 15,000 refugees at other camps nearby who are as bad off or worse. Yet closing down Azerbaijan's refugee camps would be tantamount to admitting that the war with Armenia is over -- and that Azerbaijan has lost.
Few of the exiles seem willing to settle for that. 
"We did nothing wrong," said Hassana Rekhman, a balding, moon-faced 40-year-old from a village near Aghdam. "We are ready to live as before. We want our homelands. Otherwise we're ready to make war to take our lands back."
Parvana Huseneva spoke forcefully when asked her view of the Armenians in trenches a few miles west. "We hate them," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zhena Agababyan, 64, an Armenian now living in a metal shipping container, was driven from Baku by Azeris and lost her husband in 1988. (Michael Wines/The New York Times) Map of Azerbaijan highlighting Aghdam: In ruins, Aghdam has been under Armenian control since 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); VANDALISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); MOUNTAINS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); CEMETERIES (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARMENIA (98%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); FRANCE (67%) AZERBAIJAN; ARMENIA; NAGORNO-KARABAKH; RUSSIA; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



736 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: It Gets 78 Miles a Gallon, but U.S. Snubs Diesel 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS with KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, May 26 

 BODY:
To judge by the mileage it can get, the Audi A2 sounds like just the kind of exotic hybrid-fuel car that President Bush would want to promote with his new energy plan.
 The sporty new four-door compact has a top speed of 100 miles an hour. It can travel 78 miles on a single gallon of fuel and emits fewer "greenhouse" gases than almost any other vehicle on the market. Yet the A2 has at its core a technology that generates scorn in the United States: the diesel engine. 
 The A2 is part of a powerful movement in Western Europe, where gasoline prices are often three times what they are in the United States. Diesel engines burn as much as 30 percent less fuel than gasoline engines of comparable size, and they emit far less carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, which have been implicated in global warming. After being disparaged for years because they were noisy, smelly, smoke-belching and sluggish, a new generation of much cleaner, more nimble diesel-powered cars is suddenly the height of fashion in Europe. 
Diesel engines powered 32.3 percent, or nearly one-third, of all new cars sold in Europe last year, compared with 21.7 percent in 1997. Analysts predict the share will rise to at least 40 percent by 2005. 
The contrast with the United States could not be more stark. Fewer than 1 percent of new American cars have diesel engines. And the gap is likely to widen, because American antipollution regulations severely restrict the sale of diesel engines, and American environmental groups are adamantly opposed to relaxing them. European environmentalists, while pressing for tougher standards, are far more accepting of the new diesel technology. 
A report commissioned by Congress and being prepared by a panel of the National Academy of Sciences bluntly suggests that the United States may be missing a big chance.
According to a person familiar with the draft report, which is due in July and is being prepared with considerable secrecy, the panel will suggest that "the surest, fastest way to improve the fuel efficiency of the American fleet would be to allow diesels to be a greater part of the landscape." President Bush has said that he is waiting for the report before deciding what, if any, changes to make in American fuel-efficiency standards for automobiles.
But the panel is not expected to call for a change in the environmental rules. The person close to the panel said a shift toward diesel would require "gigantic" investment and "would probably be a foreign-dominated technology."
Harry Pearce, a vice chairman of General Motors until Friday, when he becomes chairman of its Hughes Electronics unit, said the company had no intention of investing in more diesel engines for the American market unless the air pollution rules change. "We're denying ourselves the largest incremental step we could take" to reduce American emissions of global-warming gases, he said.
In Germany, home of Mercedes and Porsche and unlimited speeds on the autobahn, the average new car has improved its fuel efficiency steadily since 1990 and now gets about 32 miles a gallon. The average diesel car gets about 40 miles a gallon. By contrast, the average efficiency of new vehicles in the United States has deteriorated steadily over the period as ever more sport utility vehicles have been sold, and was just 24.5 miles a gallon last year.
By all accounts, diesel technology has made a series of major advances in the last 10 years. The days are long gone when diesel engines spewed black smoke. The newest engines are almost as quiet and smooth as their gasoline rivals, and the telltale metallic knocking sounds have almost disappeared in some cars. 
Performance has also improved. The newest generation of pump-injected and "common rail" diesels offer better torque and acceleration than comparable-size gasoline-powered cars.
"The performance is fantastic," said Paul Schroder, a German physical therapist who is trading his old Audi gasoline car for a diesel-powered A2. "My main goal was to save on fuel expenses. But I love to drive, and I wanted a car that would be fun. This car has great acceleration, and it is very agile. It really is a lot of fun." 
Mr. Schroder calculates that he will cut his monthly fuel bill by about half, partly because diesel fuel is cheaper and partly because of the new car's extraordinary mileage. 
Engines emit carbon dioxide and other gases implicated in global warming in direct proportion to the amount of diesel or gasoline they burn, so vehicles with more efficient diesel engines emit less of these gases. And today's diesel engines produce far fewer tiny soot particles than just seven years ago. 
As a result, European environmentalists and government officials have been much more comfortable with diesels than their American counterparts. "A liter of diesel takes one farther and produces fewer greenhouse gases," said Albrecht Schmidt, a top expert on energy issues for Germany's Green Party. "The big problem with diesel is the small particulates, but we think that problem can be solved with new particulate filters."
American environmentalists remain highly critical. "Diesel is the quick and dirty way to increase fuel economy," said Daniel Becker, the director of energy and global warming policy at the Sierra Club. "As long as we have other technologies that are clean, I don't see the point in producing carcinogenic soot." 
Differences in attitudes among environmentalists are reflected in the stringency of air pollution rules, with European regulators giving fairly lenient treatment to diesels while American regulators have virtually banned them.
Stringent air pollution rules for diesel engines were issued with virtually no warning by the California Air Resources Board in late 1998, and will take effect in the 2004 model year. The decision was made by the board itself, a group of political appointees, many of whom were about to leave office because their patron, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, was retiring. The board's technical staff had recommended more lenient standards, but at its final meeting, with no staff analysis, the board adopted stricter rules with little discussion.
The rules were chosen without consideration for the ramifications for global warming; California regulators say that is an international issue outside their purview.
The Environmental Protection Agency traditionally copies California's air pollution rules and did so for the diesel rule in late 1999. The agency's decision, which also takes effect in the 2004 model year, came despite heavy federal subsidies by the Energy Department and the Transportation Department for the production of prototype vehicles with hybrid engines that could run on either diesel fuel or electricity.
General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChyrsler each completed diesel-electric hybrid cars in early 2000 that could get 80 miles to the gallon, but have largely abandoned these projects because of the new air pollution rules. They are now struggling to catch up with Toyota and Honda in the production of hybrid vehicles that use electric power to improve the overall fuel efficiency of vehicles with gasoline engines.
At the same time, compared with Europe, the United States has much dirtier diesel fuel -- used by heavy trucks and in a slightly different form, as home heating oil -- with far higher levels of sulphur. The American oil industry, much more influential than Europe's oil industry because the United States produces a lot of oil, has lobbied successfully to prevent rules requiring cleaner fuel to take effect until June 2006.
In France, more than half of all new cars sold are powered by diesel engines. "Diesels are trendy," said Thierry Dombreval, senior vice president for marketing at Renault. "The customers for diesels are younger and more affluent, and those are the people who are trendsetters." 
BMW and Mercedes are selling diesels in nearly half of their most expensive cars. The waiting period for the diesel version of the Mercedes sport utility vehicle is 12 months, which is three months more than for the gasoline version. 
Diesel currently sells at an average of $1.45 a gallon in the United States, compared with $1.70 for gasoline, but diesel prices sometimes rise above gasoline prices in winter when refineries produce heating oil instead of diesel. In most European countries, diesel is at least 20 percent cheaper than gasoline because of tax treatment.
A leading reason for Europe's boom in diesel-powered cars is their tax treatment. Most European countries impose much higher "ecology" taxes on gasoline than diesel fuel, mainly because governments want to avoid damaging commercial truckers. 
In the United States, the image of diesel cars has never recovered from the damage done in the early 1980's when automakers, responding to sharp rises in oil prices, raced to introduce such models on a large scale without working out the technical glitches first. "We put some vehicles out there in the marketplace that, independent of the emissions and fuel economy, just didn't work very well," Mr. Pearce of G.M. said.
In Europe, both Ford and G.M., which have been producing cars there for decades, lost significant market share because they failed to recognize the coming popularity of diesels years ago. Today, both companies are racing to catch up.
"I believe it is just a matter of time before the United States comes around to diesel," said David W. Thursfield, chief executive of Ford of Europe. "The technology has moved ahead so much. Fifty miles to the gallon is normal, and you don't even know you are driving a diesel."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Not Buying Them"Diesel engines are popular in cars in Europe, where fuel prices are high. In the U.S., diesel use in cars peaked in 1981 at 6.1 percent but quickly declined. In the overall auto market, diesels are mainly used in large pickup trucks. Chart tracks share of new vehicles equipped with diesel engines in United States* and Western Europe+ from 1992 to 2000. *Cars and light trucks.+Cars only.(Sources: Ward's AutoInfoBank; VDA German Automobile Industry Association )(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); ELECTRONICS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); AIR POLLUTION (68%) AUTOMOBILES; DIESEL POWER; AIR POLLUTION; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; SALES 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (71%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



737 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: As Others Abandon Plains, Indians and Bison Come Back 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: FORT YATES, N.D. 

 BODY:
In writing the obituary of the Great Plains, social historians have looked out at the abandoned ranches, collapsed homesteads and dying towns huddled against the wind in a sea of grass and seen an epic failure. 
 And the numbers do tell a compelling story. More than 60 percent of the counties in the Great Plains lost population in the last 10 years. An area equal to the size of the original Louisiana Purchase, nearly 900,000 square miles, now has so few people that it meets the 19th-century Census Bureau definition of frontier, with six people or fewer per square mile. And a large swath of land has slipped even further, to a category the government once defined as vacant. 
 But something else is under way from the Badlands of the Dakotas to the tallgrass fields of Oklahoma: a restoration of lost landscape and forgotten people, suggesting that European agricultural settlement of big parts of the prairie may have been an accident of history, or perhaps only a chapter. 
As the nearly all-white counties of the Great Plains empty out, American Indians are coming home, generating the only significant population gains in a wide stretch of the American midsection. At the same time, the frontier, as it was called when it was assumed that the land would soon be spotted with towns and farms, is actually larger than it has been since the early 20th century. 
These changes have been under way for decades. But they have reached a point -- 108 years after Frederick Jackson Turner suggested that the American frontier was closed, with the buffalo herds wiped out and native populations down to a few tribes -- that there are now more Indians and bison on the Plains than at any time since the late 1870's. 
"What's happening is really quite astonishing," said Patricia Locke, a Lakota and Chippewa elder and a MacArthur Foundation fellow who returned to the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation here several years ago. "It's like an evacuation one way, and a homecoming in the other."
Indians, of course, are still a fraction of the overall Plains population, making up just under 8 percent of the population in the state, Oklahoma, where they have the biggest population, 272,601 people. 
But while many Plains counties lost 20 percent or more of their population, the overall Indian population grew by 20 percent in North Dakota, 23 percent in South Dakota, 18 percent in Montana, 20 percent in Nebraska and 12 percent in Kansas. Some of this can be attributed to better counting and higher birthrates, but tribal officials say there has been steady in-migration dating to the mid-1980's. 
In North Dakota alone, 47 of the 53 counties lost population. Among the handful that gained people were three counties populated primarily by Indians.
In South Dakota, half of the counties lost people. But the second-fastest-growing county, Shannon, is in the heart of Indian country, on the Pine Ridge Reservation, a county that is 94 percent Indian and grew by 26 percent in the last census.
And much of Montana is nearly as open today as it was when Lewis and Clark explored there nearly 200 years ago. All but four of the counties in the flat eastern part of the state lost population; of those with gains, three contain Indian reservations. 
"All of these numbers suggest that the experiment on much of the northern Plains with European agricultural settlement may soon be ending," said Myron Gutmann, a University of Texas professor who is an authority on Plains population trends. 
As Indians have moved home, on or near reservation lands, whites have fled the counties that were opened to homesteading in the last of the great Western land rushes in the early 20th century. 
The whitest county in the nation, Slope County, N.D., is down to 767 people; all but three of its residents are white. By contrast, in 1915, six years after the prairie was opened to ranchers and farmers through the Enlarged Homestead Act, Slope County was bustling, with 4,945 people. Now the county seat, Amidon, has 25 people, and the population density, less than one person per square mile, is well below the 19th-century Census Bureau definition of land that is vacant or wilderness. 
Much of North Dakota has a ghostly feel to it: empty homesteads and occasional schoolhouses litter the land, with caved-in roofs and grass growing where there used to be front porches. The wind blows so hard that a cup of coffee brought outside develops whitecaps. 
Cattle ranching and farming of wheat, barley and corn still prevail, especially on large corporate farms in the middle and southern plains. But in Slope, Hettinger, Adams, Grant, Burke, Divide, Garfield or any of the hundreds of other plains counties that seem to have one foot in the grave, land is being left to the wind and sparse rain. 
In publicly owned prairie land, the native grasses and wildflowers have returned, and species like prairie dogs, black-footed ferrets, burrowing owls and bison have made comebacks. Much of this land will never be plowed again, for a third of the nation's 3.7 million acres of national grassland is designated roadless under a measure started by President Bill Clinton over the objections of many in the region's Congressional delegation. Other parts are managed by private groups like the Nature Conservancy, which has been buying up ranches and homesteads. 
"I'm an old prairie guy, and it does my heart good to see so much of the Plains greening up again with native species," said Greg Schenbeck, a wildlife biologist with the grasslands division of the Forest Service. "And I tell you, people who come to visit are really excited -- they talk about the expansiveness, the openness, the grass stretching to the horizon."
At the turn of the century, only a few hundred buffalo were left in the West. Now there are 300,000, and more than 30 tribes in the northern Plains are controlling large herds on land where bison, unlike cattle, need no help to flourish. A third of the nation's 31 accredited Indian colleges offer bison management. 
"Just having these animals around, knowing what they meant to our ancestors, and bringing kids out to connect to them has been a big plus," said Mike Faith, who manages the bison herd on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation here, not far from where Sitting Bull was killed.
Indians have the highest rate of diabetes in the nation. Part of the overall restoration of the Plains is an effort to get bison meat, which is low in cholesterol and fat, back into the Indian diet. 
"We're probably one of the few ethnic communities that have been blessed with a God-given creature to help restore us," said Donald Lake, director of the Inter-Tribal Bison Co-operative of Rapid City, S.D., a nonprofit group that works to repopulate Indian country with bison. 
Mr. Lake, a Santee Sioux from Nebraska, has returned to the Plains after living for years in Los Angeles. He likes the slower pace, the connection to other Indians, the low prices. He winces at the description that the historian Turner used to describe frontier land as it became populated with Europeans. It was, Turner wrote, "the place where civilization meets savagery."
Many Indians have moved back to reservations because of jobs in the casinos, the so-called new buffalo, which have been the main economic salvation. On the Standing Rock Reservation, for example, the casino is the county's biggest job provider, employing 376 people, and it has expanded six times since it opened in 1993.
But Indian reservations remain among the poorest places in the nation, with high unemployment, high out-of-wedlock birthrates and chronic drug and alcohol abuse. 
Still, life has improved. Tourism has increased. People come to look at bison, tribal officials say; others pay up to $2,500 for the right to hunt them. People interested in the Plains tribes' history are also drawn to the prairie. 
"Sitting Bull is one of the biggest names in the world, and he still has family here," said Elaine McLaughlin, the Standing Rock tribal secretary. "A lot of people in state government seem surprised when people show up from all over because they want to know more about Indians."
The re-emergence of a Great Plains of Indians and bison was foretold in 1987 by two Rutgers University professors, Frank J. Popper and his wife, Deborah E. Popper. They said white depopulation would accelerate, as it became clear that farming and building towns on the arid Plains was "the largest, longest-running agricultural and environmental miscalculation in American history." 
They proposed a "Buffalo Commons" in the empty counties, an open range populated by the species that once thundered over the land. People throughout the prairie scorned their idea, and the Poppers became the objects of intense hatred. But their idea has been revived of late, with little rancor. 
While the Poppers may ultimately be proved right in several respects, they were wrong in one major sense: In their vision, government would be the driving force, buying land and bringing buffalo back, then turning some of it over to Indians to manage.
Now, in a twist, it is government that keeps the white farming and ranching communities alive, through annual subsidies of more than $20 billion. Many historians have long argued that white settlement, particularly of the northern Plains, was largely government-induced from the start, through subsidies to railroads and homesteaders. 
"If the government ever pulled out, the Buffalo Commons would come on like a storm," Mr. Popper said.
Indians and bison have returned by self-initiative and free enterprise, helped by the success of casinos. 
"The people coming back, they get their degrees and they start their own businesses, or take jobs as teachers here on the reservation," said Anita Blue of the Turtle Mountain Reservation in North Dakota, where the population in the Indian-dominated county grew 7.1 percent. 
The idea of Manifest Destiny in reverse is scoffed at by many people, especially in the dying counties. 
But a sense of irrevocable change pervades the northern Plains. "There is a lot of that Buffalo Commons idea that's probably true," said Gov. John Hoeven of North Dakota, a Republican elected on a pledge to revitalize the state. "It's never going to look like it did before, when all the farms and ranches were healthy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Faith on a butte on the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in North Dakota overlooking the tribal herd of 300 bison, which he manages. (Will Kincaid for The New York Times)(pg. 20) Chart/Map: "Population Shifts"Though counties across the Great Plains have lost population, the number of American Indians has risen. Map of the Great Plains shows loss of total population and gains of American Indians.(Source: Analysis of Census data by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Sociology Department)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); CENSUS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); TRENDS (70%); POPULATION DECLINE (56%) POPULATION; CENSUS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRAIRIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HISTORY; BISON; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; POPULATION SHIFTS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: ;EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; GREAT PLAINS (US); NORTH DAKOTA; SOUTH DAKOTA; MONTANA; NEBRASKA; KANSAS; SLOPE COUNTY (ND)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



738 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Still Uncertain, Budget Surplus Is Gobbled Up 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
For the last three years, the federal budget surplus has been a sketch pad for the dreams of politicians, promising progress on an array of initiatives by both parties.
 But substantial portions of the surplus projected have now been set aside, first for reducing the national debt and then for the tax cut that Congress sent to President Bush today. When the price tags of all the additional programs planned by one party or the other or both are tallied, a funny thing turns out to have happened to the surplus: Even before it materializes, it has been largely parceled out. 
 Some doubt remains about whether the windfall will appear as forecast, especially given the shaky state of the economy. But even if it does, it most likely will not cover everything that Democrats and Republicans have on their wish lists. 
So when Congress returns from its Memorial Day recess early next month to start working in earnest on spending bills for next year, it will be heading toward showdowns over how to divide the remainder. 
Members will be debating how to parcel the money among a multitude of priorities, including the military, health care and medical research, education, additional tax cuts and preparing Social Security and Medicare for the aging of the population. 
With Democrats in control of the Senate, the partisan battle over priorities will only be more intense. 
"Starting from the premise that it's all going to be there, it does seem to me that the surplus is overcommitted, at least rhetorically," said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a group that advocates balanced budgets. 
"The tax cut is going to constrain the other choices," Mr. Bixby said.
With Mr. Bush vowing to hold down the growth in government spending, Democrats face a particularly difficult challenge in winning full financing for the programs they favor. But the arithmetic is daunting for both sides. There are Republicans who are as concerned about the availability of money for a Pentagon buildup and assistance to farmers as Democrats are about increases for schools and Medicare.
In some ways, the coming budget battles will be reminiscent of the days, not so long ago, when every decision about taxes and spending had to be considered against the desire not to deepen the budget deficit. Now, in a very different fiscal climate, neither party wants to be blamed for dipping into Social Security or Medicare to pay for additional spending, a restriction that favors Republicans now that they have claimed their share for tax cuts. 
The budget surplus over the next decade is projected by both the White House and the Congressional Budget Office to be $5.6 trillion.
Of that, just under $2.5 trillion would come from excess Social Security revenue. The two parties have pledged to use the Social Security surplus only to reduce the $3.1 trillion national debt or to strengthen the retirement system.
Mr. Bush's tax cut would use up almost $1.7 trillion over the 10-year period -- the $1.35 trillion in tax cuts over a decade starting next year, plus about $370 billion in interest costs from using the surplus for tax cuts rather than to reduce the national debt. The two parties have also agreed to set aside for debt reduction another $400 billion over the next 10 years in excess revenue now being generated by Medicare's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund.
Between the tax cut and the Medicare and Social Security money being set aside for debt reduction, the $5.6 trillion surplus has been reduced by $4.6 trillion, leaving about $1 trillion unallocated.
By conservative estimates, a handful of the major campaign promises and policy initiatives set out by the two parties in the last few years would bump right up against the $1 trillion.
There is bipartisan agreement that providing prescription drug coverage for retirees and overhauling Medicare would cost at least $300 billion over a decade. Mr. Bush's plan to modernize and upgrade the armed forces is expected to cost a minimum of $250 billion. 
Extending a long series of tax breaks that are routinely reauthorized would eat up $100 billion. Addressing a looming technical problem in the tax code -- the inadvertent extension of the alternative minimum tax to middle and upper-middle income taxpayers -- would cost another $100 billion. The education bills making their way through Congress could increase spending by $150 billion over the next decade.
Those estimates alone add up to $900 billion, or at least $1 trillion when the interest cost is included. But the cost of many of the programs could be considerably higher.
The costs of establishing a comprehensive prescription drug benefit for retirees, for example, could be hundreds of billions of dollars more than the $300 billion set aside by Congress, health care analysts say. There is still no estimate of what it would cost to develop and deploy a national missile defense of the type sought by Mr. Bush. Earlier this year, the Senate voted for a budget plan that included more than $300 billion for additional education spending over 10 years.
Republicans are already pressing for further tax cuts, some of which have bipartisan support. Emergencies, from wars to droughts and floods, typically claim billions of dollars a year. And there are many other programs that will no doubt be allocated a portion of the surplus, especially aid to farmers, benefits for veterans and federally financed medical research.
Democrats said something will have to give. "There will not be any money available to do what people are promising in education once this tax cut goes through," said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York. 
Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, who will become chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee when the Democrats assume control of the Senate, said the tax cut and other budget decisions already made this year "have soaked up scarce dollars that are needed for education, Social Security, Medicare, a prescription drug benefit and the many other important priorities of the American people."
The concern is not wholly partisan. Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, said the tax cut could make it difficult for the administration to make good on its promise to provide more money to the Pentagon. "In the wake of large tax cuts, nondefense spending initiatives and uncertain surplus projections," Mr. McCain said, "we cannot be sure how much money will remain for such defense priorities as national missile defense, force modernization, spare parts, flight hours, overdue facility maintenance, training programs and the care of our service members." 
Other Republicans in Congress and administration officials say there is plenty of money, especially if the government re-examines whether the money it is already spending is being put to good use.
"There's a trillion dollars in the next decade, uncommitted," said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget. "That ought to be more than enough to meet the nation's legitimate needs over that time period. Someone intent on spending much more than that ought to examine the fairness of that view to Americans who are paying the highest income taxes in history." 
Democrats said that while total government revenue as a percentage of the nation's economic output is near historical highs, income taxes for most people are low by historical standards. They said that by pushing for a large a tax cut, the administration and Republicans in Congress are in effect trying to starve spending programs far into the future as a means to the ideological end of reducing the size and influence of the federal government.
"There's no sense of the historical consequences," said Thomas S. Kahn, staff director for Democrats on the House Budget Committee. "They're reshaping the agenda for a decade or longer."
Exactly, said conservative Republicans. "If we don't cut taxes," said Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, "they'll spend every doggone dime of it."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER: What Happened to the Surplus?"Now that the House and Senate have approved a $1.35 trillion tax cut, the bulk of the projected federal budget surplus of $5.6 trillion over the next decade has been taken off the table. In coming weeks, Congress will go to work on dividing up what is left, and may find itself short of what it needs to do everything the two parties have proposed. Total projected budget surplus, 2002-2011: $5.6 trillionSocial Security surplus (reserved for debt reduction): -$2.5 trillionMedicare surplus (reserved for debt reduction): -$400 billionTax cut and interest: -$1.7 trillion Remaining surplus: =$1.0 trillion Prescription drug benefit and Medicare reform: $300-500 billionIncreased Pentagon spending and missile defense: $250-500 billionTax provisions: $200 billionEducation: $150 billion TOTAL: At least $900 billion Other areas where there is likely to be demand for increased spending. Agriculture, health, energy and the environmentAdditional tax cutsShoring up Social SecurityEmergencies(Sources: Congressional Budget Office; Congressional estimates)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); AGING (66%); AGING TRENDS (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



739 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: The House Vote 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
 Following is the 240-to-154 roll-call vote by which the House of Representatives today passed a 10-year, $1.35 trillion tax cut. A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the bill. Voting "yes" were 28 Democrats, 211 Republicans and one independent. Voting "no" were 153 Democrats and one independent. Y is a "yes" vote. N is a "no" vote. X denotes those not voting. There are two vacancies in the 435-member House.

ALABAMA
Democrats -- Cramer, Y; Hilliard, N.

Republicans -- Aderholt, Y; Bachus, Y; Callahan, Y; Everett, Y; Riley, Y.

ALASKA
Republicans -- Young, Y.

ARIZONA
Democrats -- Pastor, N.

Republicans -- Flake, Y; Hayworth, Y; Kolbe, Y; Shadegg, Y; Stump, Y.

ARKANSAS
Democrats -- Berry, N; Ross, Y; Snyder, N.

Republicans -- Hutchinson, Y.

CALIFORNIA
Democrats -- Baca, X; Becerra, X; Berman, N; Capps, Y; Condit, Y; Davis, N; Dooley, Y; Eshoo, N; Farr, N; Filner, N; Harman, N; Honda, X; Lantos, N; Lee, N; Lofgren, N; Matsui, N; Millender-McDonald, X; George Miller, N; Napolitano, N; Pelosi, N; Roybal-Allard, N; Sanchez, N; Schiff, Y; Sherman, N; Solis, N; Stark, N; Tauscher, Y; Thompson, N; Waters, X; Waxman, X; Woolsey, N.

Republicans -- Bono, Y; Calvert, Y; Cox, Y; Cunningham, Y; Doolittle, Y; Dreier, Y; Gallegly, Y; Herger, Y; Horn, Y; Hunter, Y; Issa, Y; Lewis, Y; McKeon, Y; Gary Miller, Y; Ose, Y; Pombo, Y; Radanovich, Y; Rohrabacher, Y; Royce, Y; Thomas, Y.

COLORADO
Democrats -- DeGette, N; Udall, N.

Republicans -- Hefley, Y; McInnis, Y; Schaffer, Y; Tancredo, Y.

CONNECTICUT
Democrats -- DeLauro, N; Larson, N; Maloney, N.

Republicans -- Johnson, Y; Shays, Y; Simmons, Y.

DELAWARE
Republicans -- Castle, Y.

FLORIDA
Democrats -- Boyd, X; Brown, N; Davis, N; Deutsch, N; Hastings, N; Meek, X; Thurman, N; Wexler, N.

Republicans -- Bilirakis, Y; Crenshaw, Y; Diaz-Balart, Y; Foley, Y; Goss, Y; Keller, Y; Mica, Y; Miller, Y; Putnam, Y; Ros-Lehtinen, Y; Scarborough, X; Shaw, Y; Stearns, Y; Weldon, Y; Young, Y.

GEORGIA
Democrats -- Bishop, X; Lewis, N; McKinney, N.

Republicans -- Barr, Y; Chambliss, Y; Collins, Y; Deal, Y; Isakson, X; Kingston, Y; Linder, Y; Norwood, Y.

HAWAII
Democrats -- Abercrombie, Y; Mink, N.

IDAHO
Republicans -- Otter, Y; Simpson, Y.

ILLINOIS
Democrats -- Blagojevich, N; Costello, N; Davis, N; Evans, N; Gutierrez, N; Jackson, N; Lipinski, X; Phelps, N; Rush, X; Schakowsky, N.

Republicans -- Biggert, Y; Crane, Y; Hastert, Y; Hyde, Y; Johnson, Y; Kirk, Y; LaHood, Y; Manzullo, Y; Shimkus, Y; Weller, Y.

INDIANA
Democrats -- Carson, N; Hill, N; Roemer, Y; Visclosky, N.

Republicans -- Burton, Y; Buyer, Y; Hostettler, Y; Kerns, Y; Pence, Y; Souder, Y.

IOWA
Democrats -- Boswell, N.

Republicans -- Ganske, Y; Latham, Y; Leach, Y; Nussle, Y.

KANSAS
Democrats -- Moore, Y.

Republicans -- Moran, Y; Ryun, Y; Tiahrt, Y.

KENTUCKY
Democrats -- Lucas, Y.

Republicans -- Fletcher, Y; Lewis, Y; Northup, Y; Rogers, Y; Whitfield, Y.

LOUISIANA
Democrats -- Jefferson, N; John, Y.

Republicans -- Baker, Y; Cooksey, Y; McCrery, Y; Tauzin, Y; Vitter, Y.

MAINE
Democrats -- Allen, N; Baldacci, N.

MARYLAND
Democrats -- Cardin, N; Cummings, N; Hoyer, N; Wynn, X.

Republicans -- Bartlett, Y; Ehrlich, Y; Gilchrest, Y; Morella, Y.

MASSACHUSETTS
Democrats -- Capuano, N; Delahunt, N; Frank, N; Markey, N; McGovern, N; Meehan, N; Moakley, X; Neal, N; Olver, N; Tierney, N.

MICHIGAN
Democrats -- Barcia, Y; Bonior, N; Conyers, N; Dingell, N; Kildee, N; Kilpatrick, N; Levin, N; Rivers, N; Stupak, N.

Republicans -- Camp, Y; Ehlers, Y; Hoekstra, Y; Knollenberg, Y; Rogers, Y; Smith, Y; Upton, Y.

MINNESOTA
Democrats -- Luther, N; McCollum, N; Oberstar, X; Peterson, Y; Sabo, N.

Republicans -- Gutknecht, Y; Kennedy, Y; Ramstad, Y.

MISSISSIPPI
Democrats -- Shows, Y; Taylor, N; Thompson, N.

Republicans -- Pickering, Y; Wicker, Y.

MISSOURI
Democrats -- Clay, N; Gephardt, N; McCarthy, X; Skelton, N.

Republicans -- Akin, Y; Blunt, Y; Emerson, Y; Graves, Y; Hulshof, Y.

MONTANA
Republicans -- Rehberg, Y.

NEBRASKA
Republicans -- Bereuter, Y; Osborne, Y; Terry, Y.

NEVADA
Democrats -- Berkley, Y.

Republicans -- Gibbons, Y.

NEW HAMPSHIRE
Republicans -- Bass, Y; Sununu, Y.

NEW JERSEY
Democrats -- Andrews, N; Holt, N; Menendez, N; Pallone, N; Pascrell, N; Payne, N; Rothman, N.

Republicans -- Ferguson, Y; Frelinghuysen, Y; LoBiondo, Y; Roukema, Y; Saxton, Y; Smith, Y.

NEW MEXICO
Democrats -- Udall, N.

Republicans -- Skeen, Y; Wilson, Y.

NEW YORK
Democrats -- Ackerman, X; Crowley, N; Engel, N; Hinchey, N; Israel, Y; LaFalce, N; Lowey, N; Maloney, N; McCarthy, Y; McNulty, N; Meeks, N; Nadler, N; Owens, N; Rangel, N; Serrano, N; Slaughter, N; Towns, X; Velazquez, N; Weiner, N.

Republicans -- Boehlert, Y; Fossella, Y; Gilman, Y; Grucci, Y; Houghton, X; Kelly, Y; King, X; McHugh, Y; Quinn, X; Reynolds, Y; Sweeney, Y; Walsh, X.

NORTH CAROLINA
Democrats -- Clayton, X; Etheridge, N; McIntyre, X; Price, N; Watt, N.

Republicans -- Ballenger, Y; Burr, Y; Coble, Y; Hayes, Y; Jones, X; Myrick, Y; Taylor, Y.

NORTH DAKOTA
Democrats -- Pomeroy, N.

OHIO
Democrats -- Brown, N; Hall, X; Jones, N; Kaptur, X; Kucinich, N; Sawyer, N; Strickland, N; Traficant, Y.

Republicans -- Boehner, Y; Chabot, Y; Gillmor, X; Hobson, Y; LaTourette, Y; Ney, Y; Oxley, Y; Portman, Y; Pryce, Y; Regula, Y; Tiberi, Y.

OKLAHOMA
Democrats -- Carson, Y.

Republicans -- Istook, Y; Largent, Y; Lucas, Y; Watkins, Y; Watts, Y.

OREGON
Democrats -- Blumenauer, X; DeFazio, N; Hooley, Y; Wu, N.

Republicans -- Walden, Y.

PENNSYLVANIA
Democrats -- Borski, N; Brady, N; Coyne, X; Doyle, N; Fattah, N; Hoeffel, X; Holden, N; Kanjorski, N; Mascara, N; Murtha, N.

Republicans -- English, Y; Gekas, Y; Greenwood, Y; Hart, Y; Peterson, Y; Pitts, Y; Platts, Y; Sherwood, Y; Shuster, Y; Toomey, Y; Weldon, Y.

RHODE ISLAND
Democrats -- Kennedy, N; Langevin, N.

SOUTH CAROLINA
Democrats -- Clyburn, N; Spratt, N.

Republicans -- Brown, Y; DeMint, Y; Graham, Y; Spence, X.

SOUTH DAKOTA
Republicans -- Thune, Y.

TENNESSEE
Democrats -- Clement, Y; Ford, N; Gordon, Y; Tanner, N.

Republicans -- Bryant, Y; Duncan, Y; Hilleary, Y; Jenkins, Y; Wamp, Y.

TEXAS
Democrats -- Bentsen, X; Doggett, X; Edwards, N; Frost, N; Gonzalez, N; Green, N; Hall, Y; Hinojosa, N; Jackson-Lee, N; E.B. Johnson, N; Lampson, N; Ortiz, N; Reyes, N; Rodriguez, X; Sandlin, Y; Stenholm, N; Turner, Y.

Republicans -- Armey, Y; Barton, Y; Bonilla, Y; Brady, Y; Combest, Y; Culberson, Y; DeLay, Y; Granger, Y; Sam Johnson, Y; Paul, Y; Sessions, Y; Smith, Y; Thornberry, Y.

UTAH
Democrats -- Matheson, Y.

Republicans -- Cannon, Y; Hansen, Y.

VERMONT
Others -- Sanders, N.

VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Boucher, N; Moran, N; Scott, N.

Republicans -- Cantor, Y; Jo Ann Davis, Y; Tom Davis, Y; Goodlatte, Y; Schrock, Y; Wolf, Y.

Others -- Goode, Y.

WASHINGTON
Democrats -- Baird, N; Dicks, N; Inslee, N; Larsen, Y; McDermott, X; Smith, N.

Republicans -- Dunn, Y; Hastings, Y; Nethercutt, Y.

WEST VIRGINIA
Democrats -- Mollohan, N; Rahall, X.

Republicans -- Capito, Y.

WISCONSIN
Democrats -- Baldwin, N; Barrett, N; Kind, N; Kleczka, N; Obey, N.

Republicans -- Green, Y; Petri, Y; Ryan, Y; Sensenbrenner, Y.

WYOMING
Republicans -- Cubin, X.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (77%); APPROVALS (73%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GARY G MILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



740 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
And Now, a Case for the Forensic Accountant

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
SOMETHING struck Paul Morsen as odd about a trash hauler's request that the Central Contra Costa Sanitary District approve higher rates for customers to keep it out of bankruptcy.
 After all, just weeks earlier, this trash hauler, Orinda-Moraga Disposal Service Inc., said it could lower the cost of collecting garbage for customers. 
 "Both those things can't be true," because no rational company offers to cut prices when it is losing money, said Mr. Morsen, who at the time -- the summer of 1996 -- was deputy general manager of the Sanitary District.
So he called in a forensic accountant, Dan W. Ray. Mr. Ray's profession is a bit of an oxymoron. The very word forensic sounds glamorous and perhaps a little scary -- forensic psychology seems to crop up in conversations about Thomas Harris's fictional cannibalistic shrink, Hannibal Lecter; forensic pathologists helped identify the deceased victims of violence in Argentina and the former Yugoslavia. 
At the same time, accounting is renowned for being, well, a snore. Not this kind. As the economic climate has worsened and investors have started prowling restlessly for evidence of past corporate sins -- overstated costs or revenue, for example, or understated inventory -- forensic accounting is in demand. 
It is difficult to tell how great the demand is, though -- clients of forensic accountants do not usually want to advertise that they lost track of money they now have to find. But, to name just a few recent cases, Xerox is using accountants to investigate its finances and Cendant hired Arthur Andersen to sort out possible accounting irregularities in the wake of fraud accusations that surfaced last year. 
Forensic accounting experts are also hired by defendants in fraud cases. Lawyers for Albert J. Dunlap, the former Sunbeam Corporation chairman and chief executive accused this month by the Securities and Exchange Commission of accounting fraud, hired forensic accounting experts at PricewaterhouseCoopers to examine Sunbeam's books.
"It is a growth industry," said John Warren, associate general counsel of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, an organization in Austin, Tex. The group has added nearly 3,300 accountants to its membership rolls in the last 10 years and plans to add an additional 1,500 this year. "It has a lot to do with organizations being more aware of the threat of white-collar crime."
STRICTLY speaking, forensic accounting is audit work performed to help in litigation, but it usually refers to the investigation of an individual's or a corporation's finances to find missing money. The practice is not limited to big accounting firms like PricewaterhouseCoopers and Deloitte & Touche, though they are expanding their business. Many small firms and solo practitioners are out there, too. 
There is no typical case of fraud, but the Contra Costa trash story illustrates how forensic accountants work. The first thing Mr. Ray did was check a database to see whether William D. Lomow, the owner of the trash hauler, owned other California companies that could be involved in any scheme. It turned out that he did.
So early in the investigation, which was allowed by the terms of the contract between the sanitary authority and the trash company, Mr. Ray asked Mr. Lomow whether he owned any other companies.
"He said no, and that was the wrong answer," Mr. Ray recalled. "It told me I was dealing with someone who wasn't truthful. I describe it as my 'litmus test of management integrity.' And he failed."
Alerted that the owner was probably hiding something, the accountants reviewed payments the company made, and found a check payable to a Bay Area company deposited in a bank in Boise, Idaho, where Mr. Lomow had a personal account. 
Mr. Ray checked the name of the owner of the company that made the deposit and found that the same person -- who, it turned out, did not exist -- owned other companies. All were recipients of checks from the trash company, all were founded on the same day, and all had fictitious business addresses, such as a Mailboxes Etc. outlet in Berkeley, Calif., a vacant building, or a Post Office drop box, Mr. Ray said.
It turned out that the other companies, supposedly providing maintenance services for garbage trucks, were dummy corporations established by Mr. Lomow to siphon money from the trash company, Mr. Ray said. Mr. Lomow overstated costs to justify rate increases, and then the payments made by the company went straight into bank accounts under his control, Mr. Ray said.
The Sanitary District took the paper trail that Mr. Ray's team had uncovered and used it in a civil lawsuit against Mr. Lomow and his associate, Robert M. Sliepka. The district obtained a $9 million judgment, and at least part of the money recovered will be repaid to customers. 
Mr. Lomow and Mr. Sliepka were convicted in criminal proceedings. The failure of outside auditors to discover the fraud led to a malpractice lawsuit against the Sanitary District's outside accountants, too, Mr. Ray said. 
"It certainly had a great outcome," said Mr. Ray. He expects to see an increase in dot-com related cases soon, because his firm is near Silicon Valley. 
The trash case is unusual in that most of the details became public. Usually the clients of forensic accountants prefer to keep all information secret, so they do not publicize their vulnerability to fraud. Many of the stories that the accountants tell are therefore vague. For example, Howard M. Fielstein, a partner at Margolin, Winer & Evens in New York, tells of the management of a scrap metal reseller that kept running out of metal to sell, though its inventory records showed that all orders should have been met easily. 
"It turned out that over the weekend, trucks were coming in and just loading it up" to sell elsewhere, Mr. Fielstein said. That case was broken by surveillance of the building where the scrap metal was stored, he added.
Mr. Fielstein's formula for conducting a forensic accounting investigation draws heavily on interviews, first of the potential client. "They should be 100 percent upfront," he said. Otherwise, Mr. Fielstein said, his own reputation could be damaged.
The next step is to review what documentation there is, and then to interview those people who might know what caused a discrepancy in a company's finances. Not just the chief financial officer, either, Mr. Fielstein emphasizes.
"You can learn a lot from not only talking to the upper levels but also to the guy who walks the floor," he said.
Some forensic accountants are actually much closer to private investigators. Kroll, the risk-management company, for example, offers to vet potential employees, advises companies on how to protect secrets and performs miscellaneous other services intended to reduce the risks clients face.
The work can get dangerous, said James R. Murray, senior managing director for Kroll in New York. "We're constantly assessing that," he said. "Most of the time you don't have too many concerns. White-collar criminals are usually not violent."
Forensic accountants often get called in to help with more mundane matters, like divorces. Wealthy spouses often go to extraordinary lengths to hide assets so they are not consumed by alimony payments, and accountants may have to pore over bank and real estate records to find them. 
When a publicly held company is involved, or the case receives significant attention, it is sometimes important to the client to send a message that cooking the books will be punished. In order to do that, the victim of fraud may turn over all the information uncovered by a forensic accountant to prosecutors, who may bring criminal proceedings against the culprit, as in the Contra Costa trash case.
XEROX has said that the lawyers for its audit committee have retained PricewaterhouseCoopers to review their books, for example, in the wake of an S.E.C. investigation of some Xerox accounting practices.
Forensic accounting work is not necessarily more lucrative than more traditional audit work, but its practitioners, all of them certified public accountants, say they much prefer the challenges of their current work to reviewing corporations' books.
"It causes you to use more of your imagination," Mr. Fielstein said, because every scam is unique. "There's always something different out there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan W. Ray, a forensic accountant in San Francisco, is hired by corporations and government agencies to detect evidence of fraud. (Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORENSICS (93%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LITIGATION (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); AUTOPSIES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (69%); PATHOLOGY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS 

COMPANY: CENTRAL CONTRA COSTA SANITARY DISTRICT (91%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); JARDEN CONSUMER SOLUTIONS (65%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (91%); SIC4952 SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (65%)

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); ARGENTINA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



741 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Hindsight and the Eye of the Beholder 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

 BODY:
WHEN pundits or professors talk about political courage, they often mean some politician has taken a chance with the voters for something the commentator believes in. Consider, for example, the praise heaped on Senator James M. Jeffords by writers who endorsed Democrats last fall. In this case, the risk is not severe. Vermonters seem to like his independence.
 When former President Gerald R. Ford was honored with an award on Monday at the John F. Kennedy Library, it fulfilled the tradition Kennedy celebrated in 1956 in his book "Profiles in Courage," of praising a politician who bucked constituents for what he thought was the greater good. 
 But another condition -- that hindsight or history (or in this case, a majority of the awards committee) eventually came to think that the unpopular decision was correct -- also applied. Often, there is no real conversion. When white southerners were hailed for opposing segregation, their historian-champions agreed with them all along, whatever southern white voters thought.
Mr. Ford's case was different on that score. Mr. Ford, in pardoning his predecessor, Richard M. Nixon, did what he thought was good for the nation, knowing the nation would not think so. And most of the people who now praise Mr. Ford's decision were dubious -- or downright hostile -- when he made it. Sixty percent of the public as polled by Harris disapproved. 
Among them were two who joined in the ceremony. Caroline Kennedy, who as a 16-year-old high school senior opposed the pardon, presented the award, lauding Mr. Ford's "controversial decision of conscience." Her uncle Ted, who at the time of the pardon said it had "led many Americans to believe it was the culmination of the Watergate cover-up," said it helped heal the nation.
But the more typical vindication comes -- considering that most historians are liberals -- when a tough decision looked right at the time to the same sort of people now weighing in. When 66 percent of the public in a 1951 Gallup Poll said they thought it was wrong for President Truman to fire General Douglas MacArthur, they did not include Eleanor Roosevelt, Walter Reuther, William O. Douglas, Walter Lippmann or the editorial writers of The New York Times, The Washington Post or The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. And today, even some of the press critics of the time, like Time magazine and The Chicago Tribune, would join most historians in approval.
Politicians revel in saying they are doing the courageous thing. On at least eight occasions, President Nixon announced that he was avoiding the "easy way" in decisions on educational standards, welfare, inflation and, repeatedly, Vietnam. In Vietnam, he said in 1971, the easy way would be "just get out and let the Communists take over." Ultimately, of course, United States troops got out, and the Communists took over. If Mr. Nixon had chosen the easy way, historians might be praising his courage on Vietnam just as they praise him for opening relations with Communist China.
Politicians also worry a lot. Representative John J. Flynt Jr., a crusty Georgia Democrat, told me in the summer of 1974 that if he had to vote for Mr. Nixon's impeachment, it would cost him his seat. But he said that was how he would vote if the Judiciary Committee recommended it. 
Then he proudly pulled out of his pocket an excerpt from Edmund Burke's 1774 address to the Electors of Bristol, in which the Irish statesman proclaimed, "Your representative owes you, not his industry only, but his judgment; and he betrays instead of serving you if he sacrifices it to your opinion." 
As it happened, the House did not vote on impeachment, and Mr. Flynt defeated a young Georgia professor named Newt Gingrich, who campaigned on the environment and got 49 percent of the vote. 
But sometimes a decision made in the face of public opinion stays unpopular. In 1937, Franklin D. Roosevelt proposed adding Supreme Court justices so that he could overcome the majority that was killing his New Deal measures. Aides told him it was wrong and would be unpopular, said Joseph J. Ellis, professor of history at Mount Holyoke College. He described the reaction: "On both sides of the aisle and both sides of the political spectrum, this was regarded as a monarchical act, a blatant repudiation of the separation of powers."
The court-packing scheme was rejected by the Senate and remains unpopular today. It is perhaps the most prominent exception to the aphorism of Professor Joel Silbey, a Cornell historian who has not been won over to support of the Nixon pardon: "Time makes everybody look better -- particularly if you really landed on them at the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LIBRARIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); AMNESTY (67%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AMNESTIES AND PARDONS; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KENNEDY, JOHN F, LIBRARY AND MUSEUM (BOSTON) 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (78%) NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94); FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR; CLYMER, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



742 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Musical Chairs; 
Democrats Take Their Turn In the Hot Seat

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the quake set off by Senator James M. Jeffords's departure Thursday from the Republican Party stopped, no one was left standing in the same place or on the same ground.
 In a nation and a Congress split right down the middle politically, the power of just one vote can be extraordinary, and the senator's decision may prove as momentous as the 5-4 United States Supreme Court ruling that gave George W. Bush the presidency last December. 
 As dazed Republicans try to figure out their next move, Senate Democrats, who began the week unable to hold their ranks against a $1.35 trillion tax cut, have been catapulted into majority status, with all the possibilities that offers.
"The question is, can the Democrats seize the moment?" said Bill Curry, a former adviser to President Clinton. Mr. Curry wryly notes that it was a quiet Republican who delivered a stingingly effective critique of Republicans and Mr. Bush, as no longer standing for "moderation, tolerance, fiscal responsibility." 
"Along comes this 67-year-old life-long Republican moderate who made his peace with Reaganism to say -- with much to lose and little to gain -- that he can't live with the extremism of the Bush agenda," said Mr. Curry. "By his action, he has done more than the Democrats have been able to do in four months to focus the American people on the fine points of the Bush agenda."
Democrats, in fact, had been largely on the defensive at the moment Mr. Jeffords made his move. Though they had begun to attack the president effectively on issues like the environment, they had been unable to articulate a forceful, overriding reason to oppose his tax cut, descending instead into a cacophony of different arguments. Nor were they able to stop their conservatives from making swift compromises with Republicans to speed toward Mr. Bush's desk the tax cut that was the centerpiece of his agenda.
But now, Democrats say, they have what they need: control of one of Washington's levers of power. And make no mistake, it does matter that Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota is now not only the Democrats' indisputable leader, but also the Senate's agenda setter and possibly the front runner for the next presidential nomination, to boot.
So intense is the spotlight that comes with this new power and authority that when the relentlessly low-key Mr. Daschle walked down the long staircase of the Capitol's East Front Thursday to herald the new political day, the scene had an electricity reminiscent of Newt Gingrich's first days as speaker of the House. Television cameras rolled, tourists gawked and teenagers even climbed into a tree to get a better look.
MR. DASCHLE, eschewing Newt-onian triumphalism, vowed to "work for principled compromise," but he has his work cut out for him. Senator Robert G. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat, calls the moment "filled with opportunities and perils" for his party. "There's the chance to promote our agenda, but also to raise expectations too high," he said, "and to attempt to do so much that we cause our own fractures."
The Democratic majority -- like that of the Republicans -- will be a tenuous one. As Mr. Daschle himself reminded reporters, "This is still one of the most closely divided Senates in all of our history."
Moreover, Mr. Daschle presides over a divided caucus that stretches from liberals like Barbara Boxer of California to conservatives like Zel Miller of Georgia, who often votes with the Republicans. And the party's activist base, still furious over Mr. Bush's disputed election, may demand something more militant than the sort of conciliation that led the Democrats, on the eve of taking power, to give up their fight against the appointment of Theodore B. Olson as solicitor general.
The last time the division of power in the Senate was so tight was during the Eisenhower administration. Because of deaths during the 83rd Congress between 1953 and 1955, the Democrats at times had more senators than the Republicans. But they never tried to take control of the chamber, uncertain that there was advantage in such responsibility.
IN 1954, Senator William Knowland of California, the Republican majority leader, mourned on the floor "that I have the responsibility of being majority leader in this body without a majority."
Democratic Senator Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas retorted, "If anyone has more problems than a majority leader with a minority, it is a minority leader with a majority."
Until Mr. Jeffords bolted, Mr. Daschle was a minority leader who was almost at parity. And in the past few months his Democrats had just begun to agree on how to fight the new president. Through a series of failed amendments to the tax bill they set down the arguments they will be able to make, if the economy turns sour, to assert that they had been right. They jumped on Mr. Bush's environmental rollbacks to portray him as threatening the nation's quality of life. And they have used the California energy crisis to accuse him of favoring oil and gas companies over consumers.
These positions are designed to make the Republicans look extreme, a tactic that the Democrats found easier against Mr. Gingrich than against Mr. Bush. 
"You've got to be a tough moderate," said Kevin Phillips, a political analyst, "which means you're always pointing out how the other side goes too far, or is extreme or is working for the oil companies and the fat cats."
With the Senate in hand, the Democrats will now have the opportunity to change the terms of the nation's policy debate by using committee chairmen to hold hearings on Mr. Bush's foreign policy, his energy plan and his approach to Social Security. They are bound to be far more critical of the president than the Republican-led committees ever were.
Mr. Daschle will also be able to place on the Senate floor a competing agenda to Mr. Bush's, with an eye to the 2002 and 2004 elections. He said his first move after the Senate completes the education bill would be to bring to the floor legislation to regulate managed health care. It is a popular issue and the kind that will put pressure on moderate Republicans in the battle for the political center. Indeed, none other than Senator John McCain, the maverick Arizona Republican, is co-sponsoring the managed care bill with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Massachusetts Democrat -- a bill opposed by Mr. Bush and most Republicans.
Some other tried-and-true issues, on which polls show the voters tend to prefer Democratic positions over Republican ones, will follow. Medicare prescription drug benefits and an increase in the minimum wage will be among them. Democrats also want to promote electoral reform and an energy package that relies more on conservation and efficiency than Mr. Bush's.
It takes 60 votes to end a Senate filibuster and the excruciatingly close arithmetic of the Senate has not changed. So the Republicans, if they adamantly oppose Mr. Daschle, could keep him from passing any of these measures. "The numbers will still be very close on a lot of issues that are going to be difficult issues," said Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat.
But in politics one can sometimes win by losing. A major goal of the Democrats is to portray themselves as centrists, closer to the American public than Mr. Bush and the Congressional Republicans, and to maintain and amplify Mr. Jeffords's charge that his longtime party is no longer one of moderation. 
"On most of these issues we're moving into Democratic turf," says Marshall Wittmann, a Congressional analyst with the Hudson Institute. "It will be very difficult for the House to kill these without seeming obstructionist."
The risk for Mr. Daschle is that enough Democrats will desert him on big issues that Republicans will be able to label Mr. Bush the centrist and the Democrats left-leaning radicals.
AND with liberals clamoring for their party to stop Mr. Bush in his tracks -- from his judicial nominations to his plans to drill in the Alaskan wilderness for oil and gas -- Mr. Daschle must also take care that he does not come across as Dr. No, who does nothing but obstruct the president. Republicans are already beginning to make this case.
On Thursday, Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority whip from Texas, said of Mr. Daschle: "Blocking legislation is one thing. Running the Senate efficiently is quite another. We'll see if he can get results, not just throw up roadblocks."
But Mr. Daschle is shrewd and Democrats are trusting him to be adroit about when to compromise and when to confront. "As long as Daschle keeps his eye on occupying the center ground," said Al From, the head of the Democratic Leadership Council, "we'll do fine."'

GRAPHIC: Photo: The corridor outside the Mansfield Room, near the Senate floor, which former Majority Leader Trent Lott liked to use for meetings. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%) JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN); MITCHELL, ALISON; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



743 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Sizing Up a Changed Capital 

 BODY:
At first, the changed world due to arrive in Washington with a Democratic-controlled Senate may not look very different from the old. Senator Tom Daschle, soon to be majority leader, is sensibly cautioning against dramatic changes. Slowly and over time, however, the Senate's altered balance of power could bring significant progress in several areas if Democrats are selective in their fights and President Bush and the Republican Congressional leaders moderate their own positions. They should try for progress on increased school spending, energy, patients' rights and prescription drugs for the elderly, steps that could even lead to new attempts to reform Social Security and Medicare.
 As a result of Senator James Jeffords's defection from the Republican Party, the Senate is now a hodgepodge of potential alliances on various issues. In practical terms, there has always been a centrist core of lawmakers ready to advance certain economic and social causes, but in recent years that majority vote was thwarted by Senator Trent Lott, who ran the Senate with deference to conservatives. The party's hard right wields similar power in the House, though a moderate bipartisan majority has broken the leadership's hammerlock on issues like campaign finance reform. 
 Hanging over the new landscape, unfortunately, is a $1.35 trillion tax cut (which is actually more than $1.5 trillion if it is calculated without the budgetary sleight of hand approved this weekend) emerging like some kind of monster out of tough negotiations behind the scenes. But with the Senate in Democratic hands, one of the primary defects of the tax cut could turn out to be a virtue. Its most regressive features -- the lowering of taxes on the super-rich and the elimination of the estate tax -- will not be phased in until several years down the road, skewing the cost in future years. Irresponsible as that is, it also means that these parts of the tax cut can and ought to be abrogated if the surpluses on which they are based fail to materialize or are used up by spending for which there is bipartisan support.
President Bush, for example, has signaled that he will soon propose a major military buildup, including financing for a national missile defense. He also wants to privatize part of Social Security and introduce more free-market competition into Medicare, steps that are likely to cost large amounts of money. The Democrats and many moderate Republicans, on the other hand, cannot and should not live with the budget cuts embodied in the nonbinding budget resolution rammed through Congress earlier this month. Lawmakers are certain to adopt more spending than is allowed in the resolution for schools, the environment, law enforcement and other areas. The parts of the tax cut that do not take effect for many years should be considered part of any negotiation on increased spending. No additional tax cuts should even be considered without an agreement to rescind some of the earlier cuts.
The Democratic-controlled Senate can wield influence in other areas. If the House passes a campaign finance bill acceptable to the Senate, Mr. Daschle can swiftly schedule a vote on that bill and send it to President Bush. Mr. Lott would never have done that. As for judgeships, the Judiciary Committee, using information from the American Bar Association, can now ensure that proper consideration is given to Mr. Bush's choices. The days of forcing the Senate to vote prematurely on an appointment, as Mr. Lott did last week for Solicitor General Theodore Olson, must not be repeated. Democrats should use their new power to block ideologically skewed appointments, but they should rely, whenever possible, on building coalitions rather than the bellicose partisanship advocated by James Carville and Paul Begala on today's Op-Ed page.
The Senate's enormous power to set the agenda and hold hearings can change the climate in Washington if it is used judiciously. Under the Republicans, Senate committees properly investigated the influence of campaign contributions on various Clinton administration policies. The lobbying on Bush administration energy and environment policy might be one field for a bipartisan inquiry to examine. But the Republicans showed that overweening zeal in investigating a president can backfire. In this area and in others, the Democrats must avoid payback politics once they control the Senate for the first time since 1994. It will not be easy to reinstill an atmosphere of cooperation in Washington, but it is what the public wants and what Mr. Jeffords has now made a little more possible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ESTATE TAX (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (73%); TRENT LOTT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



744 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Tax Cut Triumph Is a Political Bouquet, Complete With Thorns 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
Taken on its own, the passage today of a sweeping tax cut close in size and similar in spirit to the one President Bush proposed was a resounding victory for him and his new administration.
 It affirmed his powers of persuasion. It validated his ability to govern with an ambiguous mandate. It fixed him, at least for now, as a man of his word, a leader wedded to principles he had long espoused and was committed to pursuing even in the face of evidence that they were not overwhelmingly popular. 
 But that was not the whole story, nor was it the final chapter. The president's success -- and even Democrats were compelled to label it as such -- came with costs already incurred and dangers yet to be confronted. It was qualified by the president's evolving image, fed by his unwavering crusade for the first big tax cut in two decades, as a conservative more concerned about his fans on the political right than the skeptics in the political center.
"This is a short-term victory that carries with it a steep long-term price," said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. "He at least has gotten one big thing done; that's more than is true of some presidents."
But, Mr. Garin said: "The tax bill more than anything else was the cause of strong feelings of partisanship to reemerge almost from the beginning of the administration. The way that he did this will make it much harder for him to get the next victories."
Unmentioned but unmistakably present in Mr. Garin's assessment was the other big political news of the week: the defection of Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont from the Republican Party, which put the Senate under Democratic control. With Democrats in charge of the traffic of legislation in the Senate, Mr. Bush may find the political going much rougher than he did in the first four months of his administration.
Mr. Jeffords voted for the tax legislation, tweaked and tailored in ways that accommodated concerns that he, other Northeastern Republicans and moderate Democrats shared. In the end, all but 2 of the Senate Republicans who voted today -- Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island -- supported the bill, as did 12 Democrats, giving Mr. Bush at least the patina of a bipartisan consensus.
But some Republican strategists said the administration's wrangling with Mr. Jeffords over the tax bill, coupled with the attention the bill drew to the more conservative elements of Mr. Bush's agenda, was among the triggers for Mr. Jeffords's departure.
That move leaves the White House with a legislative arithmetic and a climate on Capitol Hill potentially less favorable to the achievement of its goals. It gives more power to any Republican who might decide to be a spoiler -- to mavericks like Mr. McCain and Mr. Chafee, both of whom flexed their independence with their votes today.
The passage of the tax bill also leaves the White House with another, perhaps equally significant problem. Because Mr. Bush framed tax reductions as a panacea for everything from economic to energy woes, the enactment of tax cuts sets Mr. Bush up to take responsibility -- blame as well as credit -- for the extent to which the situation on any of these fronts does or does not improve.
"It does put all of these issues now clearly on the back of the president," said John Weaver, a Republican strategist who worked for Mr. McCain's presidential campaign. That was especially true, Mr. Weaver said, in terms of the economy.
"It becomes his," Mr. Weaver said. "It was bound to happen sooner or later. At least it comes with a victory." He said that it was, indeed, "a big victory."
The significance of that accomplishment is unequivocal. When Mr. Bush began pushing his tax cut on the campaign trail a year and a half ago, most Democrats argued that it was about a trillion dollars too generous. Public opinion polls suggested extremely soft support for the measure. The election returns, in which Mr. Bush lost the popular vote, suggested a profound ambivalence about the wisdom of his ways.
"I just remember so clearly, right after the election, people said: 'Doesn't the president have to change his agenda? Shouldn't he give up on the ideas he planned?' " said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary. 
The president did not and, in the end, he had to shave only a few hundred billion dollars from his dream and managed to convert many Democrats to his cause. Even more remarkably, he reached his destination with considerable speed. It took President Ronald Reagan more than two months longer to win passage of a tax cut in his first year in office.
Mr. Bush was helped mightily by forecasts of increasingly robust surpluses that made his plan seem more affordable. But administration officials, their supporters and several Republican strategists said Mr. Bush also proved his tenacity as a salesman, a quality they said bodes well for his ability to exert his will on issues like education reform, a patients' bill of rights and the modernization of the military.
"I'm fairly impressed," said Greg Mueller, a Republican strategist. "The president and the administration didn't back off. They were very, very focused. They just never let up on the Hill and never let up publicly. I think, in many ways, they've set the table for some good legislation and some good governance down the pike here."
But the pike looks indisputably different than it once did: bumpier, possibly slower, best navigated with a delicacy that the Bush administration sometimes lacked. Mr. Bush may have passed one milestone only to encounter more formidable obstacles down the road.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, at the White House with Paul and Deborah Peterson and their baby, Juliette, thanked Congress for passing a tax bill. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BRUNI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



745 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: The Fresh Air Fund; 
Teenagers Ponder Futures on a Weekend Away

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN CARROLL 

DATELINE: FISHKILL, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Geese and deer seemed unconcerned by the recent migration to Beaver Lake of a rare species -- the adolescent city slickers of the PreOccupations Club.
 Cabins around the lake hummed with activity. One cabin, nestled among fragrant honeysuckle bushes, housed a group of teenagers discussing grown-up decisions and consequences. 
 "In my life, 'can't' isn't part of my vocabulary," declared Jared Hunte, 17, of Harlem. 
"But there may be some things you can't do when you're young; you need to plan ahead and choose your experiences in order to handle life pressures," said Jaqueline White, a counselor.
The group mulled this over and discussed different possibilities for careers and families. But Jared maintained that sometimes the call of adventure can bedevil the most solid, sensible plans. 
"Hey -- curiosity killed the cat!" he said.
Smiling, Mrs. White shot back, "O.K., so what do you plan on doing, if you're a cat?"
Teenagers and counselors broke out in laughter before returning to the topic at hand.
In another cabin, teenagers played a board game called Success. The object was to attain job stability and economic satisfaction, while dodging penalty cards with messages such as: "You ran out of money and must quit a special two-year training program to go to work." 
Jermaine Toney, 16, of the Bronx, said the game "helps with decisions about life."
Meanwhile, in a third cabin, teams of nacho makers were having a cook-off. They crowded around an oven, loudly boasting about their meat-to-cheese ratios and bemoaning the complexity of properly flavoring guacamole on a budget.
Planning ahead, thinking critically, working in teams and choosing your battles: these are some of the life lessons encouraged by the PreOccupations Club. At a recent weekend retreat, 41 teenagers in the club visited Camp Mariah in Fishkill. The camp is one of five run by the Fresh Air Fund, a nonprofit agency that has provided free vacations in the country for 1.7 million disadvantaged children from New York City since 1877. Camp Mariah, opened in 1994, is named for the pop singer Mariah Carey, who has supported the camp financially. 
Teenagers join the PreOccupations Club after completing the Fresh Air Fund's three-year Career Awareness Program for middle-school students. The program brings youths aged 12 to 14 to Camp Mariah for three-week summer vacations, during which they publish newspapers, put on plays, design clothing and take classes in music and science, said Miriam Seidenfeld, the program's director.
"We teach them to dream about the future," she said.
During high school, the PreOccupations Club helps build reality into those dreams. Once each month, members meet to discuss resume writing; go on field trips to businesses like Clinique Laboratories and NBC; and attend tutoring sessions for standardized tests. Twice a year, the group meets at Camp Mariah for weekends filled with camaraderie and lessons in what the club calls "life skills."
The club was created to encourage teenagers to take control of their futures, Ms. Seidenfeld said. "The point is that things don't happen to them; they make things happen."
The fertile, placid environment -- Camp Mariah is at the end of a winding, leafy road far from the sounds of the city -- encourages reflection and self-reliance. "I always work on the things in myself I'm lacking here," said Natkhia Varner, 15, of Harlem. "It's all about learning to be independent."
For Merlinda David, 17, of the Bronx, summers at Camp Mariah have offered a break from the pressures of city living. "Where I live, it's not that bad, but it's all about what's in and what's out. Here, you have to deal more with other people. You're away from other influences."
She continued, "Being here, out in the middle of nowhere, you have to get out of the way of thinking: I'm in the city, I can't do anything else but what I see around me. You have to get out of that mind-set to get into yourself, to find out what you want to do with your life."
Last year, about 10,000 children aged 6 to 18 took part in Fresh Air programs. About 3,000 attended camps in Fishkill, and about 6,000 vacationed with host families in rural and suburban communities, known as Friendly Towns, in 13 states and Canada. Another 1,000 participated in year-round camping activities.
Families that would like to become hosts or those who would like to register their children for a Fresh Air summer vacation can call (800) 367-0003. Those wishing to make a tax-deductible contribution can send a check to the Fresh Air Fund, 633 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y., 10017, or visit the agency's Web site at www.freshair.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Camp Mariah, from left, Jared Hunte, Ismael Mercado, Aaron Williams, Jermell White and Ileana Ruperti. (Susan Markisz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (74%); BOARD GAMES (69%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (66%); POP & ROCK (60%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) CAMPS AND CAMPING 

ORGANIZATION: FRESH AIR FUND; CAMP MARIAH (FISHKILL, NY) 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (78%) CARROLL, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) FISHKILL (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



746 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1884 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes Tax Cut, With Rebates This Summer 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 26 

 BODY:
Congress gave final approval today to the biggest tax cut in a generation, voting to reduce all income tax rates over the next five years and to give the weakened economy a quick jolt by sending rebates to taxpayers this summer.
 After days of intense negotiations over how to apportion the tax cut of $1.35 trillion in the next decade -- and a final round of brief but bitter partisan debate during an unusual Saturday morning session -- Republican leaders moved the bill quickly through both House and Senate. 
 The bill passed the House by a vote of 240 to 154, with 28 Democrats and an independent joining all Republicans in voting yes. The Senate then passed it by a vote of 58 to 33. 
Twelve Democrats joined 46 Republicans in support of the bill in the Senate. Two Republicans -- John McCain of Arizona and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island -- voted against it on a day when some members of Congress had already left town for the holiday weekend. 
Among those voting in favor of the bill was Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont. Mr. Jeffords's decision this week to leave the Republican Party following completion of the tax bill gives Democrats control of the Senate starting next month, when Congress returns from its Memorial Day recess. 
The bill now goes to President Bush, who made a big tax cut the centerpiece of his economic agenda and his first legislative priority. The plan approved today by Congress was slightly smaller than the $1.6 trillion plan proposed by Mr. Bush, but the president made clear that he would sign it with enthusiasm.
"Tax relief was the right thing to do, and it is the responsible thing to do, for the American people and for our economy," Mr. Bush said at the White House after the vote. "This is significant -- and this is only the beginning."
Republicans said cutting taxes when the government was running a substantial surplus was nothing more than returning an overcharge to the people who earned it and was the best way of checking a relentless rise in government spending.
"The addicts are going to have to take the cure," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader. "We're no longer going to get stoned on other people's money." 
But even as final passage neared, Democrats said the bill was unfairly tilted to the wealthy, left too little money for other purposes and risked putting the nation back in a fiscal hole just as it confronted the costs of paying retirement and health benefits to an aging population.
"We think this is good short-term politics," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, who will become majority leader when the Democrats formally take control of the Senate. "It is disastrous long-term policy."
Congress, Mr. Daschle predicted, would ultimately have to come back to "make corrections" in tax policy.
The benefits of the bill will begin flowing this summer in the form of rebate checks -- $300 for single people and $600 for couples who file joint returns. (Those who earn less than $6,000 in taxable income, $12,000 for couples, would not get the full rebate.) 
But nearly all of the bill's provisions are phased in gradually, and some of them do not take effect at all until the middle or end of the decade.
The bulk of the tax cuts come in the form of reductions in personal income tax rates. In addition to reducing income tax rates, the bill gradually doubles the child credit and applies it to many low-income families who cannot currently claim the credit. 
The legislation gradually reduces the federal estate tax, and then repeals it in 2010. Married couples get a tax break. Contribution limits to 401(k) and individual retirement account programs are increased. The bill creates a deduction for college tuition expenses.
The bill includes nearly all the elements sought by Mr. Bush and Republican leaders. But to fit them within the amount of money available, Congress had to resort to a financial and political gimmick: it provided that all the tax cuts would be rescinded by 2011, the last year in the planning horizon used to calculate the legislation's cost.
Republicans said they assumed future Congresses would vote to extend the tax cuts. Democrats said the maneuver was a ploy to hide the fact that the real cost of the bill was at least $1.6 trillion -- the level Mr. Bush had sought -- if all the provisions were left in place in 2011. 
The bill would provide a married couple with two children and income of $100,000 with a tax cut of $911 this year and $2,790 a year once fully phased in, according to calculations by Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm. A single person with no children who earns $60,000 a year would get a tax cut this year of $375, and $802 once the bill is fully phased in.
In general, the provisions benefiting low-income people take effect faster than those that benefit only wealthier people. Moreover, the bill did little to deal with the alternative minimum tax, which by later in the decade will force many middle- and upper-income Americans to pay higher tax bills than the legislation promises. 
Republicans said they would have to pass another bill at some point to reduce the alternative minimum tax, which was originally passed to ensure that wealthy taxpayers did not escape taxation through clever use of deductions and credits.
Today's action was the culmination of years of debate over whether the nation could afford a substantial tax cut at a time of large and growing federal budget surpluses. It was a clear victory for Mr. Bush, who campaigned on the issue, and for Republicans in Congress, who had been thwarted in their tax-cutting efforts while Bill Clinton was in the White House.
It also continued an even longer debate over fairness -- whether cuts should go primarily to the people who pay the most taxes, the wealthy, or to those who most need the help, those in the lower and middle ranges of the income spectrum.
While the final bill largely hewed to the Republican philosophy of "tax cuts for taxpayers," it also acknowledged the liberal demand that lower-income people benefit in a tangible way. The main mechanism for doing so was to allow low-income working families who do not have a federal income tax liability to claim a portion of the child credit, in effect giving them a cash payment each year.
"The people who pay the most taxes in the country get relief," said Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, one of the Democrats who voted for the bill. "That's important. But people who need the most help in this country also get help."
Up to the end, the debate also centered on whether it was fiscally responsible to be allocating a big part of the projected surplus before it materialized.
Republicans said that if the money was not returned to taxpayers, it would be spent on ever-larger and wasteful government programs.
"America, this is your money, and you know how to spend it best," said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, Republican of New York.
Democrats said the United States would come to rue the day the legislation was enacted because it risked a return to the kinds of budget deficits that built up after the last big tax cut, in 1981.
"This is a sad day, as was 1981," said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland. "It will result in profound dislocation in days ahead."
The votes came against the backdrop of the impending change in control of the Senate. Given the opposition of Mr. Daschle and other Democratic leaders in the Senate to the bill, the change is sure to make it more difficult for Republicans to follow through on their plan to enact further tax cuts this year.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, threw his considerable influence behind a tax cut, though his caution that the cuts should be tied to the surplus actually materializing was ignored.
Most of all, Mr. Bush was able to sell the tax cut as a way to shore up the economy, which slowed abruptly toward the end of last year. Indeed, Mr. Bush pivoted from casting the tax cut as a matter of returning to people their own money to marketing it as antirecession insurance. 
Putting money into people's pockets, he said, will stimulate spending, help people pay credit card bills and offset rising gasoline prices.
The bill immediately creates a new bottom tax rate of 10 percent that applies to the first $6,000 of taxable income for single people and $12,000 for married couples filing jointly. The change is retroactive to the first of the year, and it is this part of the tax cut that will lead to the mailing of rebate checks in the coming months. The current 15 percent rate would remain in place for income levels above those covered by the new 10 percent rate.
The legislation then reduces all income tax rates above the current 15 percent rate by one percentage point as of July 1. The other rates are currently 28 percent, 31 percent, 36 percent and 39.6 percent.
Over the next five years, those rates will fall further. The current 28 percent rate will eventually reach 25 percent, the 31 percent rate will reach 28 percent, the 36 percent rate will reach 33 percent, and the 39.6 percent rate will reach 35 percent.
The child credit will increase to $1,000 from $500 in a series of steps over nine years, starting with an increase to $600 this year. Families whose incomes are above $10,000 but not enough to pay federal income taxes could claim a cash credit of 10 percent of their earnings, rising eventually to 15 percent. 
Making the child credit available to low-income families was a provision that moderates in both parties fought hard to include in the bill. Conservatives were equally intent on repealing the estate tax.
The bill provides for estate tax rates to be reduced and for the amount of an estate exempt from taxation to be increased, from $675,000 currently to $1 million next year and eventually to $3.5 million in 2009. In 2010, the tax will be repealed entirely.
The bill addresses the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leads many two-income couples to pay higher tax bills than they would if they remained single. 
But the main marriage penalty provisions would not begin kicking in until 2005. Starting then, the bill would gradually increase the standard deduction for couples so that it becomes twice the level for single people. And it would expand the 15 percent tax bracket for couples so that it covers twice the income level that the bracket covers for single filers.
Contribution limits for 401(k)-type plans gradually rise to $15,000 from $10,500 under current law. Limits for contributions to individual retirement accounts rise to $5,000 from $2,000.
The bill allows up to $4,000 in college expenses to be deducted, subject to income limits. That deduction, however, would disappear after 2006 if a future Congress did not extend it.
The bill also removes limits on the deductibility of student loan interest, and increases the contribution limit for tax-advantaged education savings accounts to $2,000 a year from $500.
The legislators who wrote the bill phased in some provisions and made others expire early so that the bill's cost would not outrun the projected surpluses in any of the next 10 years. 
The bill's annual costs do not exceed $100 billion a year until 2004, the end of Mr. Bush's term. The cost in 2007 reaches $150 billion, and it peaks in 2010 at $187 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Olympia J. Snowe, Trent Lott, Charles E. Grassley and Jeff Sessions celebrate the tax cut. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, left, arriving yesterday at the Capitol to vote yes on the tax cut with his former party. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, right, had just voted against the cut. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 27) Chart: "For Taxpayers, Benefits Come One Year at a Time"2001First rate reductions take effect; Treasury Dept. begins mailing refunds in late summer. The child credit rises to $600 from $500. 2002Individual exemption on estates increases to $1 million from $675,000. 2005Changes in the standard deduction for married couples and adjustment of their 15 percent rate begin to take effect. 2006All rate reductions are fully phased in. Limit on tax-deferred 401(k) contributions reaches $15,000, from $10,500 now. 2009Child credit rises to $800. Individual estate tax exemption rises to $3.5 million. 2010Estate tax is repealed. Child credit rises to $1,000. 2011Unless re-enacted by a future Congress, all the provisions are rescinded.(Sources: Joint Committee on Taxation; Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); AGING TRENDS (60%); WILLS (59%); AGING (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WILLS AND ESTATES; TAX CREDITS; REBATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (74%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); JEFF SESSIONS (59%); TRENT LOTT (59%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (55%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



747 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing; 
G.O.P. Makes Gains In Democratic Hawaii

BYLINE:  By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
Democrats have had a vise lock on Hawaii's politics for 40 years. Hardly any state is more Democratic.
 But in 1998, when Hawaii was one of the few states not enjoying the nation's economic boom, a Republican, Linda Lingle, mayor of Maui, came within 5,000 votes of denying Gov. 
Benjamin J. Cayetano a second term. She contended that he had failed to shore up the Hawaiian economy after its traditional underpinnings -- tourism, agriculture and military spending -- began to crumble because of changing buying habits and national priorities. 
 Hawaii is still not entirely back economically, and in last fall's elections Republicans picked up seven seats in the State House (there are now 32 Democrats and 19 Republicans) and one seat in the State Senate (now 22 Democrats and 3 Republicans). What is more, come next year, Ms. Lingle, now chairwoman of the Hawaii Republican Party, plans to run for governor. (Mr. Cayetano may not run because of term limits.)
And she is pumped.
"We're on the verge of making history," Ms. Lingle told cheering delegates last weekend at a state party convention. "We want the governorship, and we want a majority in the State House. It's realistic. Doable. But very, very difficult."
Democrats have not yet picked a candidate. But not to worry, Mr. Cayetano said last week.
"In the end," he predicted, "Democrats will hold the governorship." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: LINDA LINGLE (90%) LINGLE, LINDA (MAYOR); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



748 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Taxes: Can't Live With 'Em, Can't Live Without 'Em

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
CONGRESS agreed last week to cut taxes by $1.35 trillion over the next 11 years, and President Bush could hardly wait to put his signature on the legislation.
 But don't go out and spend the money quite yet. 
 Although most taxpayers can count on reducing their tax bills by hundreds of dollars this year and next, much of the tax cut will not take effect until the middle of the decade, when the projected budget surplus grows big enough to cover it. 
One big provision -- the repeal of the federal tax on large inheritances -- is put off until 2010. 
The issue is not just patience. Politics, the economy and the government's fiscal outlook could change substantially over the coming 5 or 10 years, raising the possibility that the tax cut could be put on hold before it is fully phased in. 
Of course, voting to raise taxes carries enough electoral peril that both parties strive to avoid doing it. History nonetheless suggests that big tax cuts are often followed by periods in which taxes are increased.
"The historical precedent is to shave back some of the tax cuts in future years," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a political action committee that supports tax cuts. "This has been one of our worries all along."
Take the tax cut of 1981, which Republicans to this day credit with renewing the nation's economic strength. As it became clear that the tax cut was making the federal budget deficit worse, Congress quickly reversed course, even though both parties were under intense pressure at the time from anti-tax forces.
Although it initially left in place the personal income tax rate reductions at the heart of the 1981 plan, Congress raised other taxes in each of the subsequent four years of Ronald Reagan's presidency. It then raised income taxes in 1990, with George Bush in the White House, and raised them yet again on upper-income people in 1993, this time at the behest of President Bill Clinton. 
Analogies between the current situation and the 1980's are imperfect, of course. The budget deficits of 20 years ago have given way to large and growing surpluses, providing a lot more room for error should the economy continue to deteriorate and the fiscal outlook darken. 
But the tax cut of 2001 could still prove vulnerable, if only because it takes more than a decade to become fully effective. 
"I can't think of any time in the nation's history where we delayed permanent changes in the tax code for that long," said C. Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute who was a Treasury Department official during the Reagan administration. 
Mr. Steuerle said the size of the projected surplus makes it likely that the main provisions in the current legislation will be enacted. But he said the certainty of political shifts -- a subject much on the minds of Washington's political class during a week in which the defection of a single senator to the Democratic party cost Republicans control of the Senate -- will create regular opportunities over the next decade to reopen the debate about taxes.
"To think that the politics are going to remain the same is silly," Mr. Steuerle said. "A totally different set of actors will be trying to decide what to do."
There is little doubt that many Democrats will continue to look for ways to limit the tax reduction for upper income people included in the legislation. And if they have the chance, they would no doubt like to pare back the overall size of the package to make room for what they say is vital spending on education, health care, the military and the environment.
ANOTHER issue that could ultimately force a rethinking of long-term tax policy is the strain on the government's finances likely to be caused by the aging of the population over the next few decades. 
As the baby-boom generation retires, the tab for Social Security and Medicare benefits will shoot up, even as relatively fewer people of working age will be paying the taxes that support those programs.
While the tax cut just passed by Congress is valued at $1.35 trillion from now through 2011, it would lead to a revenue loss to the government in the subsequent decade, after it has been fully phased in, of something approaching $4 trillion.
"We do not believe it was fiscally responsible," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota. "It explodes in the out-years in cost, at the very time the baby-boomers start to retire."
More immediately, should the current economic sluggishness worsen and lead to a shortfall in the projected surplus, all bets on tax cuts could quickly be called off. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among those calling for a trigger that would suspend further tax cuts if the surplus does not materialize on time.
Advocates of tax cuts are well aware of the forces that could lead to a reversal in policy, and their strategy has been to promote support for further tax cuts, as quickly as possible. 
Republicans in Congress and groups supporting them are already making plans to push this year for a reduction in the capital gains tax and other tax cuts. Their rationale is that the weakened economy needs more stimulus than provided for in the bill just passed.
The Bush administration, too, is laying the groundwork for more tax cuts.
"This is the first tax bill and not the last tax bill," said Paul H. O'Neill, the treasury secretary.
But with Democrats now in control of the Senate the odds of that prophecy bearing fruit have dimmed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax cuts created federal deficits, which led to tax increases later in his presidency. (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); HISTORY (67%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (65%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%) REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



749 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A Battle Plan for the Democrats 

BYLINE:  By James Carville and Paul Begala; James Carville and Paul Begala were political advisers to President Clinton. They are currently writing a book on political strategy.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It's striking and for us Democrats, embarrassing -- that it took a Republican to unmask the Bush agenda. When Jim Jeffords quit the G.O.P., he spoke powerful truths about the truly radical nature of what President Bush is trying to achieve. Too many in our party have been sleepwalking as George W. Bush has audaciously sought to deny the federal government the money and the power to have a positive effect on people's lives.
 Senator Jeffords, a lifelong Republican who had stuck it out through the Reagan and Gingrich revolutions, said he quit the G.O.P. because he disagrees with the president "on very fundamental issues -- the issues of choice, the direction of the judiciary, tax and spending decisions, missile defense, energy and the environment, and a host of other issues, large and small." Democrats should use their new majority status to speak -- and act -- against the right-wing agenda Mr. Jeffords was protesting. 
 Without the moral authority of a clear electoral mandate, Mr. Bush is hardly in a position to dictate the sort of sweeping program he has been pushing. Here's a battle plan for stopping him, emphasizing three tactics. 
First, call a radical a radical. Mr. Bush's agenda is neither compassionate nor conservative; it's radical and it's dangerous, and Democrats should say so. Mr. Bush is proposing a diminution of the government's ability to protect its citizens that is breathtaking in its scope.
His environmental agenda would put more arsenic in the water and more pollutants in the air. His Social Security plan will cost $1 trillion to implement and will hand over Americans' retirement benefits to the vagaries of the stock market. And his missile defense system will cost untold billions, alienate our allies and, even according to its proponents, may not work.
With the complicity of a dozen Democratic senators, Mr. Bush has already pushed through a tax cut that will cost the federal treasury at least $4 trillion over the next two decades (despite being advertised at only $1.35 trillion) and will put the United States in a fiscal straitjacket for a generation or more. And that's just for starters. In an interview in The Financial Times last week, Mr. Bush's Treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, called for the total elimination of all taxes on all corporations, to be replaced by higher taxes on individuals. Mr. O'Neill said he favors an end to the federal commitment to Social Security and Medicare. The Financial Times -- hardly a left-wing bastion -- called his ideas "radical."
But where were the Democrats? If a Democratic Treasury secretary had called for a comparably radical left-wing agenda -- say, nationalizing the oil companies -- the Republicans would have called for his resignation.
Democrats must speak out. Every element of the Bush agenda, from the tax cuts to the judicial appointments to the regulatory retreat, would minimize the federal government's help for people while maximizing corporate influence. Everything the federal government does that helps people, from helping to put police officers on the street to financing Medicare, is at risk in this revolution.
Second, the Democrats must work to spend and shrink: spend the money and shrink the tax cut. Since most of the Bush tax cut's more onerous provisions don't take effect for years, there is plenty of time to fix things. If Republicans can propose repealing years of health and environmental laws, Democrats can propose repealing the most damaging aspects of the Bush tax cut.
Fully fund a prescription drug benefit for the elderly. Commit the country to reducing school class sizes by hiring 100,000 new teachers. Finance school construction and renovation. Increase military pay and benefits. Extend health care coverage to millions of Americans. Fund the priorities Democrats would have funded if there were no tax cut, and pay for it by trimming the more outrageous giveaways in the Bush tax cut. Force Congress and the country to come to grips with the real-world trade-offs that were ignored or glossed over in the rush to cut taxes.
Democrats ought to continue to raise alternative tax cuts: refundable credits for the working poor, reductions in the Social Security payroll tax, a repeal of the "pre-death tax" that requires middle-class elderly people to impoverish themselves in order to qualify for long-term care -- these tax cuts for the poor and middle class should be offered as replacements for the Bush tax cuts for the rich. Even if they don't pass, proposing them and fighting for them will offer the public a stark choice -- the kind of distinctions on which elections are won. If Republicans want to run for re-election as the party that killed middle-class benefits in order to preserve tax breaks for the wealthy, Democrats can emerge with a healthy majority, and then we can defuse the time bomb of the Bush tax cut. But we have to wage the battle in order to win it.
The Democrats should realize that their political future and the national interest in expanding education, health care and retirement security are one and the same. Speaking about the surplus, Senator Phil Gramm, a Republican, was candid enough to admit, "If the Democrats could spend it all, they could be the majority party for another 50 years." 
There is enormous risk in this strategy: if Republicans pass the spending programs but defeat attempts to reduce the tax cut, we will be plunged back into deficits. But better the risk of deficits than the reality of an emaciated and emasculated national government for decades. When forced to choose, the American people will demand that the savage inequalities of the Bush tax cut for the rich be tamed in order to fund important priorities for the middle class.
Third, when push comes to shove, the Democrats should obstruct. They should push a positive agenda, passing a patients' bill of rights, an increase in the minimum wage and campaign finance reform -- filling Mr. Bush's desk with progressive legislation and defying him to veto it. But if Mr. Bush continues to push his radical agenda, offering right-wing judicial nominees and environmental policies that threaten our air and water, Senate Democrats may have no option other than to obstruct. They should not shrink from that duty. Stop signs save lives.
We don't believe the spin that stopping Mr. Bush's assault on middle-class programs will hurt Democrats with voters. Bob Dole helped lead his party to victory in 1994 by stopping everything he could -- from Bill Clinton's economic stimulus package to his health care plan -- and Mr. Clinton's proposals were far more popular than Mr. Bush's are. If Democrats are seen as the people who save America from Mr. Bush's right-wing agenda, they will be regarded as principled, courageous and effective.
Accommodation with the radical Bush agenda -- offering a kinder, gentler Mr. Bush, as it were -- is a prescription for policy failure and political defeat. But if Democrats follow Jim Jeffords's lead and speak with candor and conviction about George W. Bush's misdirected plans, if they stiffen their spines and use their power to stand up for the majority of Americans, who rejected the Bush agenda in the November election, they will be worthy of the majority status Jim Jeffords has given them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Luba Lukova) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MEDICARE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); NATIONALIZATION (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) CARVILLE, JAMES; BEGALA, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2001 



750 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
In Brazil, Phone Service for All?

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, May 27 

 BODY:
It seemed like the perfect marriage of a new technology and an underserved market. Last year, a company called Vesper started advertising a type of wireless residential telephone service that could be installed much faster than could traditional phone lines and would be cheaper to use than mobile cellular phones would be. People like Rosa Marta, a 31-year-old housekeeper, jumped at the chance.
 "I had a phone in my house in three days," said Ms. Marta, recalling the installation, which was made last September. She had been waiting years for a conventional phone from the local telephone company. "I sold my cellular phone, and now I spend only about 70 reais about $30 on my phone bill," she said, noting that her cell phone bill had been about 200 reais, or $85, a month. "I think it's wonderful." 
 Vesper's rollout is the world's biggest yet for a technology called wireless local loop -- also known as fixed wireless because the phones are not mobile, as cell phones are. Each household has a wireless transmitter-receiver, small enough to sit on a desktop, that communicates with a wireless network antenna. 
Such systems have been held out as a way for countries with nonexistent or inadequate networks to provide universal phone service in places where copper wire does not or may never reach. 
Certainly, for Ms. Marta, who lives with her three children in the low-income neighborhood of Itapecerica da Serra, about 20 miles southwest of the center of Sao Paulo, Vesper's system seemed to provide a relatively affordable type of phone service.
But fixed wireless is not proving to be the answer to universal telephone service in Brazil, where there are only about 23 working telephones for every 100 people -- compared with 65 per 100 in the United States. Revenue from the service tends to be low, because low-income customers do not typically run up large phone bills.
And with the current investment climate so menacing, Vesper, which is closely held, is loath to continue expanding in poor areas. So it has announced that it will put less emphasis on low-income consumers -- which now make up about 75 percent of its clients -- and focus on wealthier households and businesses.
The new strategy may help push Vesper to profitability by the end of the year, but as the company has forecast, the retrenchment raises doubts about technology's ability, alone, to create universal phone service in countries with large low-income populations. 
"In the 90's, this idea of creating a national wireless network as a way of leap-frogging previous levels of commitment and woefully underdeveloped infrastructure was widely, widely embraced," said Dan Schiller, a professor of communication at the University of California at San Diego and an expert on international telecommunications. But the Vesper example demonstrates the limits to that ideal when "the whole process is one of market-based development, rather than social responsibility."
The Brazilian government, in fact, had hoped that a market-based approach would solve the chronic telephone shortage in this nation, where people often spend years on an official waiting list for service.
In 1998, to privatize the state-owned telephone holding company, Telebras, the government divided the country into three regions and promised to license quickly a second service provider in each region to spur competition and to help meet the pent-up demand.
By the time the Brazilian government auctioned the licenses the following January, though, the Russian debt default had scared investors away from the emerging-economy markets like Brazil. Only one of the three licenses was sold, for the Rio de Janeiro region, for the minimum price of about $45 million. The winner, which later called itself Vesper, was a consortium made up of Velocom, a telecommunications start-up company based in Denver, with 49.4 percent; Bell Canada International, with 34.4 percent; and Qualcomm, the American wireless-technology company, with 16.2 percent.
After a series of postponements, the Brazilian government reauctioned the remaining licenses in April 1999, and the Velocom group also won the bid for the Sao Paulo region for the minimum price of about $41 million. The group quickly put together financing, raising $255 million in private equity. According to its agreement with the Brazilian government, the company then had about six months to install service in 42 cities in 17 states.
But while Vesper was rushing to meet that requirement by January of last year, the landscape started to change. The incumbent telephone companies had already been investing heavily for 18 months to increase the number of lines in wealthier urban centers like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
"By the time Vesper was able to get to market, significant chunks of pent-up demand had already been taken care of," said Andy Castonguay, a consultant in Rio de Janeiro. "And since they committed themselves to a very aggressive strategy of meeting coverage needs, they were less focused on the business community, which, in hindsight, was probably shortsighted." 
To make matters worse, the technology itself was limiting. Additional services that have recently become available on cell phones, like Internet access, were not immediately available at competitive data speeds on Vesper's fixed-wireless phones. Such limitations made the phones less attractive for Brazil's middle- and upper-income consumers, as well as business clients, whose larger phone bills could have propped up Vesper's revenues from the start.
Analysts say that weak initial marketing, as well as pricing plans that many low-income customers consider too expensive, also limited Vesper's reach. By the end of 2000, the company had signed up only about 250,000 customers in the state of Sao Paulo, and an additional 250,000 in the area that included Rio de Janeiro. By contrast, Vesper's telephone company competitors in those regions each had some 12 million subscriber lines. 
Vesper argues that its client base has grown the fastest among companies of its kind -- including the American company XO Communications, formerly Nextlink, which has taken some three years to install 130,000 lines in the United States. But Brazilian consumers and the news media, which had been led to believe during the privatization process that Vesper would provide a virtually instant alternative to the traditional telephone companies, have been critical of the company. 
"People seem to have forgotten that the Telebras system took 22 years to install 11 million lines," said Renato Navarro Guerreiro, the president of Brazil's telecommunications regulator, Anatel. "How could you create a mirror that could, on the next day, have a quantity of lines that is sufficient to compare with a competitor that has had a base installed for almost 30 years?"
Velocom acknowledges, though, that the investment and construction pace slowed after Bell Canada International decided that it wanted out of Vesper to focus on Americas Telecom, a Latin American venture with Telefonos de Mexico and the American company SBC Communications. Last September, Velocom agreed to buy Bell Canada's 34.4 percent stake in Vesper for $875 million, but by then the market was starting to turn against telecommunications companies of all stripes. Velocom, after shelving plans for a private stock offering, found that it could not raise the money to buy out Bell Canada. 
Hoping to lure a new partner, Vesper decided to take the company to the financial break-even point this year, 12 months earlier than management had planned. Under the the interim president and chief executive Barry Rowan, who is also the chief financial officer of Velocom, the company scaled back and reorganized its business plan, announcing the layoffs of 1,300 of its 4,000 workers in February. (Two weeks ago, Vesper ended the interim arrangement by naming a Brazilian businessman, Luiz Kaufmann, president and chief executive. Mr. Rowan retains his position at Velocom.)
The company reduced its residential target this year to a total of 800,000 customers, from 1.2 million previously, and began to focus on higher-income households that want a second line -- as many as one million in the state of Sao Paulo, according to the Yankee Group research firm -- and on businesses interested in integrated voice and data services. The company also bought an Internet service provider and started to lay fiber optic cable.
"When we built the network, we didn't know exactly where the customers would be coming from and what the nature of the customers would be," Mr. Rowan said. "Now we are moving from taking orders to selling services, where we can look at the most attractive areas economically, based on where the customers are and where we have capacity, and target directly the kinds of customers that we would like to have on the network."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosa Marta, left, a housekeeper in Sao Paulo, was eager to have Vesper's new wireless residential phone service installed in her home. She and one of her children, Debora, work in their kitchen. (Angela Prada for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: VESPER (BRAZILIAN CO) 

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (86%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (86%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (86%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



751 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: An Artist's Novel Take on History: He Lets the Walls Talk 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
Walking into a space designed by James Casebere can be an unsettling experience. Mr. Casebere has based his architectural work on the Berlin sewer system, West African slave quarters, maximum-security prisons and Jefferson's Monticello (by design, Mr. Casebere's Monticello is ankle-deep in water).
 That is, if you could walk into these spaces. 
 Mr. Casebere, a New York artist, designs and builds the work as models, photographs them, then blows the photographs up into large-scale prints, typically six by eight feet, that give the impression of reality. But the uneasy realm of caverns, parlors and cells, inhabited by unspoken intent, can be visited in the mind's eye only, like the architecture in dreams.
An exhibition of 10 of his photographs is on view at the new Sean Kelly gallery in Chelsea through June 16. A monograph, "James Casebere: The Spatial Unconscious," is being published next month. An exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, which includes work by Mr. Casebere and Glen Seator, opened earlier this month, on view through July 29.
Mr. Casebere, 47, who wanted to be an architect as a child, grew up outside Detroit, the son of a high school principal who designed two schools. He recalled poring over blueprints with his father. In 1975, while an undergraduate at the Minneapolis College of Art and Design, he began taking photographs of things he had built. He graduated in 1976.
"There were a lot of interesting conceptual artists -- Vito Acconci, Siah Armajani, Mary Miss -- who began working with architecture in the 70's," Mr. Casebere said last week, sitting in a dusty leather lounge chair in his East Village studio. 
The tenement apartment, crowded to its corners with the parts of houses and sets of interior spaces, looks like the bedroom of a child who enjoys blowing up his toys. Mr. Casebere has recently moved residence to Fort Greene, Brooklyn, with his companion, Lorna Simpson, an artist, and their daughter, Zora.
"Robert Venturi became very important to me after I got out of school," he said, speaking of the architect and author of "Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture," a seminal book on postmodernism published in 1966. "To think about architecture as a system of visual signs. His terminology was borrowed by critics like Douglas Krimp and applied to people like Cindy Sherman: art that used popular conventions of picture making like photography, and used historical pastiche."
Mr. Casebere first exhibited his photographs in New York at Artists Space in 1977. Unlike his contemporaries Ms. Sherman, who took center stage in movielike locations for her "Film Stills," or Laurie Simmons, who staged dramatic scenes with dolls against backgrounds of miniature rooms and houses, Mr. Casebere created spaces without figures, based on architectural archetypes, which were themselves the subject of his work. If these walls could speak, as he intends them to, with visual eloquence, they might tell the tales that were responsible for the building genres Mr. Casebere chooses to represent. 
As an artist he is interested in architecture because of its ability to resonate visually with a version of history that might not be otherwise recorded, an unofficial witness to events. Interior space, like a kind of unconsciousness, can be an "inside story," a place that harbors the truth.
After a visit to Germany in 1998 Mr. Casebere designed and constructed an arched model in half-inch foamcore, painted to look like stone, that recalled the sewers of Berlin. For the photograph, the set was lighted as if for a manhunt: white shots into the dark, like the search for Peter Lorre in "M" or Orson Welles in "The Third Man."
Mr. Casebere, speaking of the extensive new construction in Berlin, explained: "In the German mind it's the future of Germany and the center of Europe and the economic community. But the underground is sort of more about the horrible German past." The depiction, he said, was a "kind of a psychohistory."
Commissioned in 2000 by Metropolis, a design magazine, to document an actual maximum-security prison in Texas, Mr. Casebere returned to his studio and built and photographed his own abstract version of the building, "Wichita Falls," as a physical resonance of his experience.
"It was just horrifying," he said. "The screams that I heard, the extreme hostility to the guards. One inmate was in a standing cage, 7 feet tall by 3 feet square, in the center of the block, naked, while they searched his cell. In protests, the inmates would all stop up the toilets and repeatedly flush them. From the second level, all the cells would flood and the water would rush over the balconies, like a waterfall."
The still photograph seems as quiet as death. 
There is also water in the picture. Mr. Casebere uses E-Z Water, an artists' resin that dries to a fluid-looking surface, to 'flood' models, a device frequent in his work since 1998. For now Mr. Casebere is the art world's James Cameron; like Mr. Cameron, the director of "Titanic," everything he builds, he floods.
"Overflowing water took on significance as life in the pictures, a kind of abundance," he said, acknowledging at the same time that to most people water to the ankles or water to the waist is an unambiguous threat: a swift, uncontrollable overture to panic. This year Mr. Casebere "flooded" Monticello. The photographs of the founding father's iconically American home, again reproduced to scale in a cut-and-pasted model, feature a rising tide of resin in the entry hall, below the famous cannonball clock, like a spreading stain upon history and Jefferson's legacy as an enlightened man.
"He was a flamboyant Virginian aristocrat who at times emulated the French style of opulence," Mr. Casebere said, standing beside his Monticello, which looked like an assembled craft kit of Arcadia. "Though it's become a symbol for a uniquely American culture, this house is a symbol of excess, as well as taste and ingenuity. For me, it was about taking the idealized father of the country, and bringing him down to size." In Mr. Casebere's model, two feet square, to be exact.
Life is now imitating art. Mr. Casebere, who is working with Deborah Burke, an architect, on the renovation of his Brooklyn house and a new studio, said that he would like to try his luck with architecture and interior design, including an addition to his house in upstate New York.
"I think about building real things that I don't have to photograph for a change, that don't get torn up," Mr. Casebere said.
Just wait until he has his first flood.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Casebere frequently uses an artist's resin to "flood" his models. He portrayed Jefferson's Monticello as ankle-deep in water. (James Casebere/Courtesy of Sean Kelly Gallery, New York); James Casebere, in his East Village studio, designs and builds models, photographs them, and then blows them up into large-scale prints. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3); James Casebere in his studio. He sees architecture as an unofficial witness to events. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); PRISONS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); WRITERS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (66%) PHOTOGRAPHY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART (PHILADELPHIA) 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L; CASEBERE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



752 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: BALLET THEATER REVIEWS; 
For the Good Of the Nation, The Widow Should Wed

BYLINE:  By ANNA KISSELGOFF 

 BODY:
It is the economy after all, stupid. That is the theme of "The Merry Widow," Ronald Hynd's witty ballet version of Franz Lehar's operetta of the same name.
 When Irina Dvorovenko, in an unscheduled, dazzling debut, and Julio Bocca, hilarious and explosive in his dancing, led American Ballet Theater's "Widow" on Saturday afternoon, they made its story line more than clear: a rich widow must be persuaded to marry a dashing count so that her money will replenish the empty coffers of their country, Ponteverdo. 
 "The Merry Widow" is grand spectacle, happy entertainment and also a fragile ballet. It has gorgeous scenery and costumes by Desmond Heeley, Lehar music arranged by John Lanchbery that will send you humming into the street, and a plot and subplot full of enough farcical encounters to give the boulevard theaters of Paris a run for their francs.
Yet it takes a fabulous all-around comic performance grounded in brilliant technique to bring out the choreography's sometimes hidden virtues. No one should miss Mr. Bocca's Count Danilo, bounding into the air in a "drunk" solo. No one should miss Ms. Dvorovenko's haughty and truly merry widow, Hanna, including her entrance on a ballroom staircase. Mr. Bocca pulls out all the stops in a Latin-lover act. Ms. Dvorovenko is a portrait in fin de siecle presence. She knows how to carry a fan.
Mr. Hynd, a product of Britain's Royal Ballet, has couched his choreography in the refined style of English classicism. (The work was originally done for the Australian Ballet.) Power in dancing would seem antithetical to this reserved style. Yet since 1997, Ballet Theater and Mr. Bocca in particular have shown how bravura technique can transform an operetta without words into a sparkling entertainment on its own terms.
Casting makes some difference. On Friday night at the Metropolitan Opera House, Julie Kent, replacing Susan Jaffe, was a lyrical mischievous and sophisticated widow. Robert Hill, understated in his dancing, was nonetheless an officer and a gentleman as Danilo. Ashley Tuttle, exquisite as always, and Angel Corella, stunning in his own virtuosity and wide-eyed comedy, were the lovers in the subplot.
But Mr. Bocca, temperamental and uninhibited, raised the energy level of the entire cast on Saturday. Ms. Dvorovenko, dancing the widow for the first time in New York and replacing Alessandra Ferri, met him on the same ground of brilliant technique and hilarity.
In the subplot Maxim Belotserkovsky was witty with Xiomara Reyes, in a debut as Valencienne, the young wife of an elderly baron, poignantly acted by Victor Barbee. Ms. Reyes is waiflike, but she has an amazingly strong technique.
As the baron's secretary Vladislav Kalinin was more than superb. Virtuosity in an ersatz folk solo came from Herman Cornejo on Friday and Joaquin De Luz on Saturday. David LaMarche conducted with brio.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Can-can girls, right, in American Ballet Theater's "Merry Widow" at the Metropolitan Opera House. Below, Irina Dvorovenko, in her debut as Hanna, the widow, and Julio Bocca, at far left, as Count Danilo, her suitor. (Photographs by Richard Termine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSIC (78%) DANCING; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (93%) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA; DVOROVENKO, IRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



753 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Chasing Comets No Longer Pie in the Sky

BYLINE:  By FRANK LITSKY 

 BODY:
Like most 5-year-olds, the Women's National Basketball Association is fairly healthy and full of energy. For the next two and a half months, it will fill half the seats in 16 otherwise vacant N.B.A. arenas. The season of 32 games for each team begins today with the perennial champion Houston Comets playing host to their potential successors, the Los Angeles Sparks.
 It is a time for optimism. Houston has lost its two most glamorous players -- Sheryl Swoopes is out for the season with a torn knee ligament and 38-year-old Cynthia Cooper retired and is now coaching the Phoenix Mercury -- so the league should be more competitive. Most of the weaker teams have improved their talent. 
 Last year, Houston and the Liberty won the conference titles and reached the league finals. Houston won the championship, as it did in every previous season of the W.N.B.A.'s existence. The Comets play in the tougher Western Conference, and the loss of Swoopes and Cooper this year opens the door for the Sparks, the Sacramento Monarchs and maybe an outsider. Still, Houston Coach Van Chancellor said, "Don't count out the defending champions."
The Eastern Conference was so soft last year that only two of the eight teams finished above .500, and the Washington Mystics made the playoffs despite a 14-18 record. Now the Liberty, with depth to spare, again looks to be the best in the East, especially if Rebecca Lobo can keep her knees healthy.
Competitive balance is important because, as the XFL and so many other would-be major leagues have learned, the battles for ticket sales, television ratings and sponsor dollars are unending. And even when the positives hold their own against the negatives, fine-tuning may be needed.
For example, in a state of the league report last week, Val Ackerman, the W.N.B.A.'s president, cited many positives: 2,322,822 tickets sold last year, national television on three networks, 2.5 million to 3 million television viewers a week, 150,000 visitors to the league's Web site on this year's draft day. But there are caveats, too.
The main reason for last year's attendance rise of 19 percent was the addition of expansion teams in Indiana, Miami, Seattle and Portland, Ore. But average attendance dropped 11 percent to 9,074, its lowest in league history, partly because the season started two weeks earlier and overlapped too much of the N.B.A. and N.H.L. playoffs. The purpose of the early start was to allow 30 or so W.N.B.A players more time to prepare for the Sydney Olympics.
Television ratings, while modest, are holding. NBC and ESPN will continue to televise games of the week, and ESPN2 will take over Lifetime's game of the week. The league's marketing partners include American Express, AOL Time Warner, Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola, Gatorade, General Motors, Nike and Sears. Ackerman said that last year's sponsor spending for all women's sports reached $1 billion for the first time.
With all that, the W.N.B.A., which is owned collectively by the N.B.A.'s 29 teams, is losing money.
"We are not profitable as a league," Ackerman said. "Teams have separate economics and most are unprofitable. It's expensive to start a sports league. A lot of costs have to be paid out of a league pot.
"The N.B.A. has television that pays $2 billion over four years, and we have to pay production costs to get our games on television. We have to share our revenue with our network partners. But we have long-term goals to be profitable."
Ackerman said the W.N.B.A.'s fan base was 75 percent female and its television viewers were mostly women. "We have attracted a new fan with the W.N.B.A.," Ackerman said. She added that the league is proud of the diversity of its fan base, which includes the lesbian community, youth groups, religious groups, professional women and the American Indian community. 
There is more diversity on the court as well this season. Ackerman said that of the 110 players from the W.N.B.A.'s first season, only 30 remain. She said 25 percent of today's players come from other countries, and as Chancellor, the Houston coach, said, "Great players are coming into this league, and they are so much better."
In this year's draft, 15 non-Americans were taken, including three Australians in the first round. The Seattle Storm made one of those Australians, the 6-foot-5, 20-year-old Lauren Jackson, the first choice. Jackson, mainly a post player, is so mobile and talented that she sank five 3-point shots in a preseason game.
The rookie crop is rich with prospects, notably Ruth Riley, the Notre Dame center, at Miami; Kelly Miller, the Georgia guard, at Charlotte; and Jackie Stiles, the Southwest Missouri State guard, at Portland. Injuries have slowed other rookies like Tamika Catchings, the Tennessee forward, at Indiana; Svetlana Abrosimova, the Connecticut forward, at Minnesota; and Shea Ralph, the Connecticut guard, at Utah.
Five teams have new head coaches. They include the Indiana Fever, where Nell Fortner takes over after coaching the United States to an Olympic gold medal in Sydney, and the Phoenix Mercury, where Cooper takes charge because Cheryl Miller wanted to concentrate on her duties as an N.B.A. television sideline reporter. Tom Maher, from Australia, takes over for Nancy Darsch in Washington, becoming the league's first foreign coach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); OLYMPICS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON COMETS (90%); PHOENIX MERCURY (90%); SACRAMENTO MONARCHS (83%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (90%); LOS ANGELES SPARKS (83%); WASHINGTON MYSTICS (73%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%) HOUSTON COMETS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: LITSKY, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); WEST USA (77%); WASHINGTON, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



754 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Tax Rebate Draws a Mixed Response 

BYLINE:  By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27 

 BODY:
With a bonus check from the I.R.S. practically in the mail, taxpayers around the country were already talking today about how they would spend the tax cut that Congress passed on Saturday. But some of them were unenthusiastic about what the new law says about the federal government's fiscal priorities.
 The law will pay anyone who earned at least $6,000 in taxable income last year a rebate of $300 in September; couples who earned $12,000 or more will get $600. In later years, tax rates will decline, new deductions and credits will emerge, and the estate tax will wither away, all at a net cost to the Treasury of $1.35 trillion by the year 2010. 
 It looks like a good deal to Curtis Breit, 32, an electrical engineer who rode his motorcycle into the capital today from nearby Silver Spring, Md., for an annual bikers' rally in support of the missing-in-action from the Vietnam War. He had been eagerly awaiting passage of the tax cut. Once the new law is fully phased in, his calculations predict a tax cut of $300 a month, money he plans to put toward building a new house. "I look at it as if I'm getting a raise," he said.
But some people seemed to prefer more federal spending over tax cuts as a way to use the surplus.
Peter Stickley, a farm manager for a private school in Vermont, said he was "skeptical" that the full amount promised by the tax cut would materialize in the years ahead, since that would reduce the federal budget surplus. Mr. Stickley and his wife, Patty, a psychologist, are in the 28 percent tax bracket, a middle-class bracket. They have three children, ages 19, 12 and 9.
He was not impressed to hear that someone in his situation would get a $600 rebate check in September and might expect the family's taxes to decline about $800 next April 15 and $1,700, or 30 percent, when the bill takes full effect in a few years.
"I'm not interested in the check," he said. "I don't have a problem with my federal income taxes."
Instead, he said, his problem is "skyrocketing" property taxes in the town of Saxtons River, where he lives, to pay for special education programs and other local school costs. For those reasons, he said, he supported James M. Jeffords, the Vermont senator who left the Republican Party last week after opposing President Bush's full tax proposal and demanding more federal spending on special education programs.
Other people also pointed to federal spending programs that they would rather see financed generously instead of getting a big tax cut.
Lillian Brown, a retired business owner in New Haven, called the tax cut "one big joke they've foisted on the American people." She and her husband, now in the prosperous 36 percent tax bracket, "don't want it and don't need it," she said, adding that the surplus should have been earmarked for "important things" like a prescription drug benefit.
"What am I going to do with my $600 check and my 1 percent tax cut?" Mrs. Brown asked.
In fact, beyond the $600 rebate this year, the tax rates for someone in her bracket would decline one percentage point every two years, reaching 33 percent in 2006. By the time the bill is fully phased in, the Browns would likely see their income taxes go down by several thousand dollars a year.
Kim Miller, 32, a graduate student who lives in Los Angeles, also said the tax cut was not needed. But she said she and her husband, Glen Hirshberg, 35, who teaches high school, would make use of the expanded tax benefits for educational savings accounts. They are in the 28 percent tax bracket and have a 2-year-old son. "It doesn't matter that it doesn't take effect right away," she said of the education benefit.
Marcie Brogan, the managing partner of a small advertising agency in Detroit, said she was delighted with the tax legislation and planned to check on Tuesday whether she could increase her contributions to her 401(k) retirement plan. 
"I have cheerfully paid my taxes for years and will cheerfully take a rebate," said Ms. Brogan, who lives in Birmingham, Mich., a wealthy Detroit suburb, with her husband, Michael, also an advertising agency executive. "I'm just thrilled by this; I couldn't be happier, and I do not believe the government will go broke or that we will not have enough money for key spending programs."
Ms. Brogan, 55, said she and her husband paid the highest income tax rate, 39.6 percent, which applies to couples earning over $288,350.
Ms. Brogan said she had split her ballot last November, voting for George W. Bush for president but supporting Democrats for other offices. "My wallet is Republican, my conscience is Democratic," said Ms. Brogan, who commutes 40 miles each day to and from her office in a red, 6,500-pound Hummer sport utility vehicle that she bought used a few years ago for about $70,000.
Ann Chandler, who came to Washington from Oakland, Calif., this weekend to attend her daughter's graduation from law school, said she feared the tax cut would lead to cuts in government programs that are important to her, like child services and education. 
Ms. Chandler, 59, said a recent increase in financing for the Alameda County Public Health Department, where she is the laboratory director, might disappear if federal spending declines because of the tax cut. "We are finally seeing the rewards of the strong economy," she said, "but now we might lose that funding."
But at the resort town of Duck, N.C., several vacationers said the bill's passage had only brightened their day a bit more. "You get taxed enough on so many things already, it's better to get something back," said Chris Martin, 37, an air-conditioner repairman from Richmond, Va. Then he went back to nursing his beer in the 80-degree heat.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How and When the Tax Cut Might Affect Taxpayers"An analysis by Deloitte & Touche, the accounting firm, shows how the tax-cutting legislation passed by Congress on Saturday would affect 27 sample families in varying circumstances. A negative number in the taxes owedcolumns indicates a refund. All children are assumed to be under the age of 17. SINGLE -- No children GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $ 25,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $2,633With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: $ 2,333DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $300PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 11.4%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: $ 2,283DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $350PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 13.3% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 36,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 4,478With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 4,170DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 308PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 6.9%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 4,083DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 395PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 8.8% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 75,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 11,422With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 10,990DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 432PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 3.8%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 10,283DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,139PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 10.0% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 100,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 18,108With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 17,563DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 545PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 3.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 16,287DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,822PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 10.1% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 150,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 31,102With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 30,348DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 755PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.4%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 27,767DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 3,336PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 10.7% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 225,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 54,822With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 53,725DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,097PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 48,069DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 6,753PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 12.3% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 400,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 110,036With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 108,191DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,845PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 1.7%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 95,979DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 14,056PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 12.8% MARRIED -- No children GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $ 25,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $1,740With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: $ 1,160DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $580PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 33.3%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: $ 1,010DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $730PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 42.0% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 36,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 3,390With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 2,790DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 600PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 17.7%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 2,465DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 925PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 27.3% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 75,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 8,250With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 7,624DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 626PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 7.6%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 6,868DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,383PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 16.8% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 100,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 14,620With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 13,880DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 740PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 5.1%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 12,190DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 2,430PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 16.6% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 150,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 26,407With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 25,460DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 948PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 3.6%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 22,589DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 3,819PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 14.5% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 225,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 48,307With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 47,019DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,288PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.7%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 41,470DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 6,837PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 14.2% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 400,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 104,878With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 102,823DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 2,054PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 90,888DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 13,989PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 13.3% MARRIED -- Two children GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $ 25,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $ -1,500With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: $ -2,120DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $620PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: -41.4%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: $-3,702DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $2,202PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: -146.8% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 36,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 1,520With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 720DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 800PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 52.6%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: -405DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,925PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 126.6% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 75,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 5,698With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 4,898DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 800PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 14.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 3,998DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,700PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 29.8% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 100,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 11,996With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 11,085DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 911PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 7.6%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 9,206DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 2,790PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 23.3% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 150,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 24,619With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 23,701DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 919PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 3.7%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 21,866DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 2,753PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 11.2% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 225,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 46,678With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 45,413DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,265PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.7%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 41,470DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 5,208PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 11.2% GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 400,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 104,878With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 102,823DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 2,054PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 2.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 90,888DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 13,989PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 13.3% SINGLE -- No childrenGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $60,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $8,272With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: $7,896DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $375PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 4.5%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: $7,470DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: $802PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 9.7% MARRIED -- No childrenGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 60,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 5,880With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 5,280DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 600PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 10.2%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 5,180DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 700PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 11.9% MARRIED -- One childGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 60,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 4,945With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 4,245DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 700PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 14.2%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 3,745DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,200PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 24.3% MARRIED -- Two childrenGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 60,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 4,010With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 3,210DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 800PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 20.0%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 2,310DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,700PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 42.4% HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD -- One childGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 36,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 3,033With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 2,433DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 600PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 19.8%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 2,033DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 1,000PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 33.0% MARRIED -- Two childrenGROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 1,000,000TAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: 306,838With first year of new tax cuts in placeTAXES OWED: 302,233DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 4,604PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 1.5%If new tax cuts were fully phased in this yearTAXES OWED: 259,281DIFFERENCE FROM CURRENT LAW: 47,557PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE: 15.5% NOTE -- The analysis reflects the changes in tax rates, the expansion of the child credit, the changes that affect married couples, including the earned income tax credit, the repeal of the limit on itemized deductions and the repeal of the phase-out of the personal exemption. The analysis does not reflect any of the tax cut's provisions on education, retirement savings, the estate tax, the dependent care credit or the adoption credit. It makes conservative assumptions on the effects of the alternative minimum tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ESTATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); CHILDREN (64%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (63%); SALES REBATES (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); VIETNAM WAR (53%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



755 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: In the War on AIDS, a U.N. Official Accents Prevention as a Battle Plan Takes Shape 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, May 25 

 BODY:
Peter Piot, the epidemiologist who has been coordinating an international campaign against AIDS since 1995, is spending less time worrying about the price of drugs and more about the shortage of condoms.
 Dr. Piot said he feared that attention had shifted from the front lines of the fight, the thousands of communities where the most basic means of prevention are still beyond the reach of the poor and vulnerable. 
 "We feel strongly that the response to AIDS has to be a balanced one: prevention and treatment," he said. "In the current climate, people forget that. I'm really getting tired of the fact that a terribly complex problem of treatment and care for people having H.I.V. is reduced to the price of anti-retroviral drugs." 
Those are fighting words to his critics. As the United Nations prepares for a special General Assembly session on AIDS from June 25 to June 27, the first session ever held to discuss a disease, a coalition demanding that access to treatment be declared a basic right is planning to demonstrate in New York that week. 
The coalition, the Global Treatment Access Campaign, will demand a war chest of $16 billion to fight AIDS, a cancellation of third world debt and an end to American efforts to protect drug companies from patent challenges in poor countries.
Secretary General Kofi Annan has asked countries to create a fund of $7 billion to $10 billion above the current money available for AIDS, which is now approaching $1 billion. 
Dr. Piot, a Belgian and an expert on Africa who was among those who first identified the ebola virus and later saw some of the first effects of AIDS in Congo, said that before money on that scale could be spent in the poorest countries -- if indeed it can be raised -- more effective prevention, testing and delivery systems must be put in place.
A strategy on how to use the global fund has now been devised and will be presented to the Unaids board by the beginning of June, he said. The fund, to fight not only AIDS but also tuberculosis and malaria, will be collected and distributed through a venture involving United Nations agencies, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, he said. 
But all decisions about how the money should be spent will be left to experts within the recipient countries, and the headquarters office will deliberately be kept very small, with no more than 10 administrators, Dr. Piot said.
Under the plan to be presented to the Unaids board, he said, the World Bank, part of the United Nations system, will hold the money but not control it or attach conditions to it. 
Recently, Joseph Kabila, the president of Congo, a country struggling to emerge from civil war, went to the Unaids office in Geneva to ask for help in starting an AIDS program, Dr. Piot said. "The Caribbean, the second most-affected region, is now waking up," he added, and he has moved on to planning campaigns for the next epicenters, Eastern Europe and South Asia, particularly India.
For some countries that means persuading governments to recognize vulnerable groups often kept in the shadows, among them gay men and sex workers. 
An anti-establishment protester in his youth, Dr. Piot now argues for maintaining good relations with pharmaceutical companies. "We work with everybody who's part of the problem to find a solution," he said. "I think that very soon the issue of the price of anti-retroviral drugs will be off the table." 
Then, Dr. Piot said, "We start with the real problem: building the infrastructure." Expensive health care systems are not necessarily the first or only priority. "For AIDS you need more than health care, you need the school system, you need all the communications," he said. 
"The government sets policy," Dr. Piot continued, "makes sure there are resources and all that, but it's not government that's going to promote condoms in gay bars at night -- nowhere in the world. To promote condoms you don't need doctors. You use commercial outlets, all these kiosks with women selling soap, beer, cigarettes -- that's where people go for condoms, not to a clinic." 
At the grass roots, where many will never have access to anti-retroviral drugs, condoms are also in short supply. 
"Not only male condoms but female condoms as well," Dr. Piot said, adding that very conservative views about women block the development and distribution of female condoms. "This seems to me -- and maybe this is too strong of a statement -- a really sexist approach, not thinking that women need something also that's under their control. Let's make sure that we increase the options for women to protect themselves -- and increasing means from zero to one option." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); DRUG PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MALARIA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); VIRUSES (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TROPICAL DISEASES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; TESTS AND TESTING; CONDOMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; PIOT, PETER (DR); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



756 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Some Upset by Twist on Pearl Harbor 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, May 27 

 BODY:
On a perfect beach day, 84 shining degrees, the lines to see the solemn U.S.S. Arizona Memorial at Pearl Harbor were long all day long, and the lines to see the $140 million movie "Pearl Harbor" were even longer.
 Both Pearl Harbor, the Navy base that changed the history of World War II, and "Pearl Harbor," the movie that changes history as it sees fit, are big news here, in part because of the Memorial Day weekend, and in no doubt greater part because of the movie's pre-opening publicity and its $5 million splashy premiere party. Even local residents, usually loath to mingle with tourists, are braving the movie crowds. James Takane, who was 11 when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor 60 years ago and remembers it well, dipped into the multiplex in Waikiki to check out the Hollywood version. 
 But like many other locals, he left the theater disappointed. "It doesn't tell the true story," said Mr. Takane, who had brothers who joined the Army in World War II. "A lot of us were standing outside watching the planes flying overhead. But you don't see Japanese-Americans or other Hawaiians in the film. Maybe it was just the base they were showing? It's hard to tell. But it doesn't show us."
For many Hawaiians, "Pearl Harbor" the movie is a decidedly mixed blessing. Its shooting on location here created hundreds of jobs, albeit temporary ones, and poured millions of dollars into a stalling economy. More significantly, the enormous publicity, high-profile premiere and expected success of the film virtually guarantee that thousands upon thousands of new visitors will want to see the real Pearl Harbor, bolstering tourism, Hawaii's most important industry. But such attention comes at a price. Many here see the film as the latest, perhaps most egregious example of Hollywood's habit of using Hawaii as a gorgeous backdrop curiously empty of Hawaiians. 
Not that anyone expects a popcorn blockbuster to aspire to precise historical accuracy. As David Takamiya, a 49-year-old native who has grown up with Pearl Harbor stories put it after seeing the film, "It's really a story about two people -- or three people -- in love."
But to others, it is grating that the movie spends 40 minutes on the Japanese attack without showing that the Japanese not only bombed battleships, killing more than 2,000 sailors, but also bombed and strafed all over Oahu, this island where Pearl Harbor is situated, causing fires and reducing buildings to rubble. And the movie does not give even a glancing reference to the scores of Hawaiian civilians -- the youngest a 3-month-old girl -- who were killed in the attack, most of them from friendly fire as antiaircraft rounds missed their targets and landed several miles away in Honolulu. 
"Were there any Hawaiians or other local people on Oahu on Dec. 7, 1941?" asked Ed Rampell, writing in the local alternative newspaper, The Honolulu Weekly. "Natives and other locals are Ralph Ellison-like invisible people in a story script set in their home."
Dan Martinez, the historian for the National Park Service's U.S.S. Arizona Memorial, who served as an unpaid script consultant for the film, said viewers should see it as "fiction aided by fact." 
At the visitor center, where guests take a ferry to the memorial -- a white bridge that stands over but does not touch the remains of the sunken ship where 1,177 sailors were entombed -- visitors do learn that civilians were killed. An exhibit with news clips mentions the civilian casualties, and plaques naming 48 who died (other official tallies list the casualties as 68) sit on a memorial on the lawn.
But for Hawaiians who believe that their state is used as a stage set and that their culture is overshadowed by the larger one of the United States, "Pearl Harbor" commits the same mistake as smaller productions in keeping Hawaiians -- people of Asian, mixed and Pacific Island ancestry -- off camera.
"Hawaii is not Minnesota," said John Nagala, a senior at the University of Hawaii. "I find it kind of funny in a sick way that the theaters aired the first showing at 7:55 to commemorate the time of the attack 60 years ago, but no one could figure out a way to show more than a split second's worth of local Hawaiians."
Mr. Nagala's friend Sandra Hirohito said: "Of course we realize it's quote unquote just a movie, and we realize that it was the worst attack on American soil in history. But would it have been so hard, given the budget of the film, to stick in a few more Hawaiian faces?"
Lulu Toluao, a longtime resident who comes from Samoa, was less critical. "It was just like every other movie in what it did to Hawaii," she said, "but I didn't mind it."
Japanese-Americans like Mr. Takane, who is 70, seem to be most concerned about the movie. (On June 2, the Japanese Cultural Center in Honolulu will present a forum, "the other side of the story.") For Mr. Takane, what was most striking after the real bombing was seeing Japanese-American families in Oahu thrown into internment camps as punishment for their ancestry. He said they were treated as spies and subjected to resentment for Pearl Harbor "that continues to this day."
"For me, it's very important to talk about this," Mr. Takane said. "I come from a family of six boys, and our father had us all volunteer for the military. I was in the Army for the Korean War and served in Vietnam as well, leaving as a lieutenant colonel.
"In Vietnam, everyone called me the Jap colonel," he said. "That was a leftover from Pearl Harbor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lulu Toluao, also of Hawaii, said she "didn't mind" the movie.; "It doesn't show us," said James Takane, who lives in Hawaii. (Photographs by John Titchen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (93%); FILM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NAVIES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (50%) MOTION PICTURES; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); LABOR 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) HAWAII; PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII)

TITLE: PEARL HARBOR (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



757 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: A Changing Nueva York 

 BODY:
One of the more dramatic findings of the 2000 census was the extent to which immigration has arrested, and in many cases reversed, population decline in America's major cities. New York is no exception. Without the arrival of a million foreigners in the 1990's, the city's population would have declined in the last decade, instead of surpassing the eight million mark. Forty percent of New Yorkers are foreign-born, the most since 1910, and they are responsible for revitalizing many of the city's neighborhoods. 
 Latin Americans and Asians accounted for much of the inflow. These recent arrivals, hailing from a growing number of countries, contributed not only to the city's diversity, but also to the diversity of their own ethnic communities. Puerto Ricans and Chinese are no longer overwhelming majorities within the Hispanic and Asian populations, as immigrants from places like Mexico, Colombia, India and Korea have increasingly made their way to the city. 
 The demographic shift is especially pronounced among Hispanics, the largest minority group in the city, numbering 2.1 million people and accounting for 27 percent of the population. This is the largest Hispanic community of any American city, and an increasingly diverse one. Puerto Ricans, who in 1990 were a majority, are now 36 percent of the total. Their raw numbers actually declined by 12 percent in the 1990's, as retirees returned to Puerto Rico. Meanwhile, immigration from Latin America soared -- the number of Mexicans in the city tripled, to become the third-largest Latino group, behind Puerto Ricans and Dominicans. 
Though statistics are useful in defining existing population patterns, the reasons behind the various demographic shifts in the last decade are hard to quantify. Immigration has long been a mysteriously informal and deeply personal saga, and so it remains today. Hundreds of thousands of Mexicans came to New York in the 1990's, for example, because they heard, typically from a neighbor or a cousin back in the old country, that there were opportunities to be had here. A few adventurous immigrants from the southern Mexican state of Puebla came two decades ago, did well and started the flow. 
To this day, more than half the city's Mexican population is believed to come from Puebla, and there are small towns in the depressed, indigenous Mixteca region of that state whose economies are fed almost entirely by dollars being sent home from New York. More recent immigrants come from the central states of Michoacan and Jalisco, and Mexico City, too, and many of them have settled in Westchester County. 
As in the Asian community, the increasing diversity of the city's Hispanic population should help challenge dated notions. One is that minorities are monoliths. There is a strong cultural and linguistic bond between Mexicans, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans, to be sure, but New Yorkers must now stop thinking of "Hispanic" and "Puerto Rican" as interchangeable terms. 
This, in turn, requires city and state agencies to make it a higher priority to address the pressing social problems affecting immigrants, such as strained school systems and the abusive treatment of undocumented workers by employers. The Puerto Rican political establishment, for its part, is beginning to adjust to the changing reality. Citizenship is one obvious gulf that has traditionally separated Puerto Ricans from many other Hispanic groups in New York. But in taking a greater interest in immigration and other issues affecting the broader Hispanic population, Puerto Rican politicians have an opportunity to help forge a pan-Latino political identity, and to capitalize on it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENSUS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); CITIES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (US); EDITORIALS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



758 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
What To Remember

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: HARPERS FERRY, W. Va. 

 BODY:
We best honor fallen heroes by recalling the causes for which they fought, and -- eschewing all smug triumphalism -- counting the current blessings of American freedoms.
 First, we remember the victory that ensures government only by consent of the governed. Here we are fretting about the unvoted switch in power in the Senate, wondering who will now "set the agenda" and if the two parties will conflict or compromise. 
 But in the recent election, the electorate split down the middle. No ideology won, yet all three branches -- Congress, the White House, the Supreme Court -- were in conservative hands by the narrowest of margins. Although that was constitutionally legitimate, the one-sided result of the photo-finish race struck many as out of whack. 
What better reflection of the consent of the undecided governed than what we have now -- closely divided government? As a result, the three branches now have a choice: paralysis through media blame-casting or progress through political horse-trading. 
Because voters next year will punish incumbents of both parties for partisan gridlock, public officials have every incentive to perfect the art of the deal. Because "compromise or else" is the order of the day, the principled struggles will be within each party to choose what to fight for and what to sacrifice. And because we the governed are demonstrably uncertain, we are getting only what we consented to. Go find a more ingenious system.
The next blessing is an economic philosophy that has produced prosperity that is the wonder of the world. Communism and socialism turned out to be wavelets of the past; fascism and its corporate state failed as well -- though their vestiges persist under benighted and authoritarian regimes. The hidden hands of free-market economics applaud the American locomotive that is pulling the world forward.
The capitalist system, which most raises the standard of living, has won the worldwide competition. But because the business cycle is part of it, as natural as breathing, any temporary downturn or short-term shortage brings cries to veer off into a command economy. Hence the demagogic call for energy "price caps," always politically satisfying at first -- populist interference with the market's self-correction that would lead to worse shortages and rationing, to inflation and wage control. 
High prices invite fresh supply and restrict demand, which then lowers prices; government can ameliorate the pain of transition and enforce fair competition, but it is the unshackled working of the enterprise system that best balances supply and demand. It has proved to be the most practical system known to humanity, with the most personal freedom built into it; we should be grateful that America is its exemplar. Our emphasis on economic freedom is the source of our military strength and made it possible for us to lead the fight to save democracy.
That strength, when coupled with our long-held vision of human rights, blesses our foreign policy with a moral force. The worthy mission to preserve and defend freedom wherever it is in our national interest -- and sometimes quite selflessly -- is why flowers of remembrance are being laid on American graves around the world on this Memorial Day. 
Our zeal for the rights of human beings to be free is now scorned by some Europeans who do not like to be reminded who saved them from enslavement. In France, where Thomas Paine wrote "The Rights of Man," a polemic soon vindicated for both men and women by England's Mary Wollstonecraft, our outspoken espousal of human rights is now seen to be a manifestation of hegemony by an unwelcome "hyperpower." 
Now that they are safe and healthy, nations freed from Nazism and saved from Communism are, in F.D.R.'s words about post-Depression Republicans, "throwing their crutches at the doctor." 
Here comes the obligatory to-be-sure graph: "Consent of the governed" often leaves a dissenting minority unsatisfied. The free-market system needs protection for competition, privacy, public health and a safety net for people who cannot compete. And we are not the only nation to stand up for human rights.
But in decorating the resting places of America's fighters, remember the legacy of freedoms they charge us to keep. This is a day to pay personal respects and to take national pride. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (61%) MEMORIAL DAY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



759 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Camden Journal; 
Air Is Heavy With Pollution, and Resentment

BYLINE:  By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
Barbara Williams was in front of the Sacred Heart School in Camden's heavily industrial Waterfront South when she noticed something unusual about the air: it was breathable. 
 Ms. Williams, the principal at Sacred Heart and an asthma patient, said that most days the air was so filled with dust and other pollutants from trucks and smokestacks that many of the school's 260 students, most of whom are black and Hispanic, needed inhalers after recess. At times, she added, the stench from the nearby sewage treatment plant is so bad that students would rather not go outside to play. 
 One particularly bad air day, "they had been well behaved at lunch," Ms. Williams recalled. "And I said, 'Now you get to go outside.' And one child said: 'Ms. Williams, I thought you said we've been good. Why do we have to go outside?' " 
Sandwiched between Route 676 and the Delaware River opposite Philadelphia, Waterfront South has 2,100 residents living in a neighborhood of less than a square mile crammed with a power plant, a trash incinerator, a sewage plant, a scrap yard, an auto wrecker and boarded-up factories. 
"All them buildings stink, and them trucks going by, the smoke is bad," said Danny Vazquez, 18, a cook at a McDonald's a mile away from his house on Arlington Street, where backyards run up against the Welsbach/General Gas Mantle federal Superfund site -- and the traces of radioactive thorium that have outlived the production of gas lanterns there.
Most of the whites who once made up Waterfront South and worked in places like the Howland Croft & Company factory, which closed long ago but whose cracking brick walls still boast in faded lettering of "Fine Worsted Yarns," are gone. Most of the residents now are members of minorities, many them poor and sick, who can find relatively few jobs in factories that are highly automated.
Some of the residents believe their neighborhood carries an unfair burden of industry, and their fight has made Waterfront South a battleground in the emerging legal field of environmental justice, which involves the recognition of poor minority communities as society's repositories for industry and its pollutants.
In February, public interest lawyers from San Francisco, Philadelphia and Camden filed a suit in Federal District Court in Camden on behalf of 10 residents to block the opening of a $50 million plant that will grind slag into a fine powder additive to cement.
The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection insists the plant meets all air pollution standards, but the residents charged that by permitting the plant, the state violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits racial discrimination by agencies that receive federal funds. Until the matter is resolved, a judge stopped the plant's opening.
Legal experts say that if successful, the residents of Waterfront South could establish a precedent for private citizens in civil rights suits. 
One of the plaintiffs, Bonnie Sanders, 54, said her granddaughter Najsia Taylor, 3, had developed asthma, and her foster child, Lashonda Midgett, 4, had begun coughing since they came to live with her last year. "I wake up every morning at 3 a.m. coughing and gagging," Ms. Sanders said. "We don't live a normal life around here like you would in Cherry Hill," she added, referring to Camden's wealthy suburban neighbor. 
Michael Davis, the amiable manager of the cement additive plant, said that he appreciated residents' concerns about the health effects of breathing the dust. But the dust, he said, is the plant's product -- not a mere byproduct -- and it is in the company's economic interest to keep it from escaping into the air. 
The plant would provide 15 jobs directly, plus work for truckers and longshoremen. Its owner, St. Lawrence Concrete Group of Montreal, would also pay an estimated $1.8 million annually in a 45-year lease with the South Jersey Port Corporation, the state agency that owns the 14-acre plant site. Some fear that if the plant is kept closed, other potential employers will stay away.
And that would be bad news to Pearl Panichella, one of the few whites remaining in Waterfront South. To Ms. Panichella, 62, an unemployed barmaid, there is too little industry left, not too much.
"A lot of factories closed down," she said. "Bars closed down, too -- lost my job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The opening of a $50 million cement additive plant in the Waterfront South section of Camden, N.J., has been put off by a federal judge. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ASTHMA (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); POWER PLANTS (75%); SUPERFUND (71%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); LAWYERS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) AIR POLLUTION; BLACKS; DUST; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MINORITIES (US); DISCRIMINATION; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CAMDEN (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



760 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey Race, Statistics Too Good to Let Truth Get in the Way 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 27 

 BODY:
It is hardly unusual when politicians in the heat of a campaign sling numbers like mud. But with less than a month until the New Jersey primary for governor, the three candidates are doing little else.
 Bret D. Schundler raised taxes 79 percent! screams Bob Franks, his rival in the Republican primary. 
 Bob Franks voted with former Gov. Jim Florio 90 percent of the time! shouts Mr. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City. 
James E. McGreevey raised taxes by 71 percent! cry Mr. Franks and Mr. Schundler in unison, about the mayor of Woodbridge, who is unopposed for the Democratic nomination.
Each of these cartoonish-sounding claims is, on its own terms, accurate. But if statistics don't lie, they certainly don't necessarily convey the whole truth.
"If I was voting in New Jersey, I would want to be really careful," said Joel Best, author of the new book "Damned Lies and Statistics: Untangling Numbers from the Media, Politicians and Activists" (University of California Press). "But most of us don't have the energy to dissect what we hear in a campaign ad."
To do just such a dissection, however, reveals something about each of the contenders and his record -- far more than a mere number stripped from its context, blown up beyond recognition and wielded like a cudgel. It also sheds light on the tactics of each of the three, and on the peculiar ethics of hardball campaigning.
Mr. McGreevey, who has never really stopped running for governor since narrowly losing to Gov. Christie Whitman in 1997, was the first to begin lobbing statistics.
As this year's race drew near, his chief Republican rival appeared to be Donald T. DiFrancesco, the State Senate president since 1992. So Mr. McGreevey engineered his campaign to hold Mr. DiFrancesco accountable for what he called the Whitman administration's failings. And at the top of Mr. McGreevey's list was the state's growing long-term debt burden.
Debt had more than doubled on Mrs. Whitman's watch, he said at every opportunity. And it had, technically, to $15.7 billion a year ago from $5.7 billion in 1993.
But a closer look lessens the impact of those numbers. The 1993 debt figure Mr. McGreevey used excluded $4.5 billion in liabilities that were not recognized until later. Those included things like sick pay for state workers, as well as the state's liability for future pension payments, which was converted to debt in 1997 in a controversial $2.8 billion bond issue that treasury officials insist will save billions in the long run.
The upshot? To be fair, Mr. McGreevey should compare the current debt with $10.2 billion, which was the actual and unrecognized debt in 1993, state officials say. By that measure, debt had risen by 54 percent since then -- still a large increase, and nearly one and a half times the rate at which the state budget grew.
Once it became clear that Mr. Schundler was going to mount a primary challenge, he came under attack -- first by Mr. DiFrancesco, the acting governor, and then by Mr. Franks, who replaced Mr. DiFrancesco in the race last month -- for having raised taxes by 79 percent in Jersey City.
In a radio debate on Wednesday, Mr. Schundler called this "absolutely, positively, indisputably a lie." It was not a lie. But it was misleading.
To arrive at 79 percent, Mr. Franks had to compare the Jersey City tax rate last year -- $2.02 per $100 of assessed property value -- with the 1994 tax rate, $1.13 per $100.
But Mr. Schundler took office in 1992. That year, taxes were $1.70 per $100. In fact, one of Mr. Schundler's first acts as mayor was to arrange for the sale to Wall Street investors of uncollected tax liens. That produced $25 million in cash and allowed a five-month tax holiday in 1994. Thus the low tax rate that year.
Compared with 1992, property taxes in Jersey City actually rose 18.9 percent, or an average of 2.4 percent a year, which Mr. Schundler notes is less than the regional rate of inflation, an average of 2.7 percent during the same period.
Mr. Franks sticks to his guns. "If I moved to the city in 1994, my property taxes went up 79 percent," said Charlie Smith, his campaign manager. He adds that Mr. Schundler's desire to adjust tax rates for inflation is asking too much.
"I don't adjust what I spend at the grocery store for inflation," Mr. Smith said. "I spend more. That's less money available to me because of inflation. You can't say property taxpayers are getting a break because of inflation. If that were the case, then the price of bread is the same as it was 50 years ago."
He also notes that Mr. Schundler had no trouble attacking Mr. McGreevey for raising taxes by 71 percent in Woodbridge -- a calculation rooted in the same methodology as Mr. Franks's attack on Mr. Schundler.
But then, in the heat of a campaign, it is not about consistency, it is about making sure the sun does not set on an unrequited attack. And turnabout is fair play, no matter how unfair it seems at the time.
For example, Mr. Schundler deftly turned the tables on Mr. Franks by attacking his voting record as a state assemblyman. One of Mr. Franks's claims to fame among Republicans is that he helped the party win control of the State House after Governor Florio's tax increases in 1990. But a researcher hired by Mr. Schundler reported that Mr. Franks's voting record on bills that Mr. Florio, a Democrat, signed or vetoed showed that they agreed 90 percent of the time.
Mr. Franks, in a radio debate on Wednesday, called that figure "grossly misleading." 
Legislators vote on so many things, many of them inconsequential, many others only after bipartisan accords, that it is not uncommon for people at opposite ends of the political spectrum to have eerily similar voting records, said David P. Rebovich, a professor at Rider University who studies state politics.
"The votes don't get to the table until the stuff is worked out," he said. "There are understandings between the majority party and the governor's office. And not for nothing, but when you're a member of the minority party, you frequently end up voting with the majority, because you don't want to be accused of not supporting education, or programs for seniors, and so on -- much like the Democrats voted for Whitman's income tax cut. Because they knew they'd get killed in an election if they were against it."
Of course, for Mr. Franks to call the 90 percent figure misleading is itself fraught with irony. Mr. Schundler's researcher, Christopher Lyon, actually came up with the figure while working for Mr. Franks in the 2000 Senate primary. Mr. Lyon said he was commissioned to analyze the voting record of a rival Republican, State Senator William L. Gormley. Mr. Gormley voted with Mr. Florio 93 percent of the time, Mr. Lyon found; he said he did the same analysis on Mr. Franks and argued unsuccessfully that it would be unfair, and also unwise, to use the number in the campaign because it could blow up in Mr. Franks's face.
That, as it happened, took a year.
To bring this round robin of muddy math full circle, both Mr. Franks and Mr. Schundler have piggybacked on state Republican claims that Mr. McGreevey, the Democrat who awaits in the November election, sharply raised both property taxes and debt as mayor of Woodbridge after taking office in 1992.
The tax rate in Woodbridge was 62.7 cents per $100 of property value in 1991. It rose to $1.06 per $100 in 2001, an increase of 71 percent, and at more than twice the rate of inflation.
But Mr. McGreevey argues that the 1991 rate was abnormally low, because his predecessor, Joseph DeMarino, cut taxes by 20 percent in what Mr. McGreevey called an election-year ploy. Mr. DeMarino also emptied surplus accounts, overestimated revenues and failed to budget enough money for a costly labor deal and pending tax appeals, Mr. McGreevey says.
Adjusting the 1991 budget for all those items produces a true tax rate of 87 cents per $100, according to an audit the following year. Or, Mr. McGreevey says, one should go back to 1990, when the tax rate was 83 cents per $100.
Either way, the increase between then and now would be well below the rate of inflation.
In the same way, Mr. McGreevey blames Mr. DeMarino for most of the increase in Woodbridge's debt. Mr. McGreevey borrowed $34 million in 1992 to plug a $24.5 million budget gap he said he inherited, and to shift the town's fiscal year.
Excluding those borrowings, Mr. McGreevey accepts responsibility for only $5.6 million in additional debt -- an increase of just 5.3 percent in 10 years, less than one-fifth the rate of inflation.
Whether Mr. McGreevey will get away with that, of course, will be up to his opponents, and to the voters in November.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Franks, left, James E. McGreevey and Bret D. Schundler at a panel discussion in Jamesburg, N.J., on Wednesday. The three men are using numbers liberally in the New Jersey governor's race. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ETHICS (69%); BONDS (62%) PRIMARIES; ELECTIONS; STATISTICS; GOVERNORS (US); BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT W BEST (79%) HALBFINGER, DAVID M; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (MAYOR); SCHUNDLER, BRET D; FRANKS, BOB; BEST, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

TITLE: DAMNED LIES AND STATISTICS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



761 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: A Starchy Old Sport Gets a Youthful Swing; 
Fresh Crop of Magazines Recasts Golf With Mix of Celebrities, Gonzo and Sex

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Cocktails to lubricate the advertisers are nothing new in the magazine world. So it was not extraordinary for the editor of a golf magazine to play host at a party for executives of advertising agencies and manufacturers last Tuesday night in Chicago.
 But this instance of ritual wooing, held by Maximum Golf magazine, had its own new twists. It took place on a rooftop overlooking Wrigley Field, and guests were challenged to down Cuervo shooters and then test their skill on an elaborate putting green installed just for the party. While people putted for the grand prize -- a $5,000 golf trip to Myrtle Beach -- and the Cubs and Reds played baseball far below, a guest said the tequila-fueled conversation occasionally turned to the high art of topless caddying. 
 Michael Caruso, Maximum Golf's 39-year-old editor, was jubilant. 
"Golf was never a cool sport when I was growing up," Mr. Caruso said over a lunchtime strip steak in Midtown Manhattan last week. "You used to have to back-slap with a bunch of geezers in white belts at the country club. It was fat cats. It was oil barons. Now it has thrown off its uncool shackles. Even chicks play it." 
In the last five years -- aided by Tiger Woods, advances in golf equipment, the once-booming economy and a quirky postmodern pop-cultural obsession with the game -- golf has been transformed from a sport for the Sansabelt set to a sexy pastime that has acquired a rock 'n' roll appeal for younger men and -- as Mr. Caruso might put it -- chicks. 
The magazines that have long been the standard bearers for the golfing community have themselves changed radically the last year, shifting ownership, recruiting editors from different fields, radically redesigning and expanding with new titles. The golf magazine marketplace is now also a battlefield of generations, a test of the old fogies versus the young fogies. 
With advertising revenue sinking across the magazine industry, the granddads of the field, Golf and Golf Digest, now find themselves also competing with the three-year-old American Express Publishing's Travel & Leisure Golf, and with brash start-ups like Maximum Golf, Fringe Golf and Schwing!, which was co-founded by Adrian Young, a member of the rock band No Doubt. The new, sometimes salacious publications have treated readers to photographs of nude women in bathtubs full of golf balls along with articles about extreme golf, glacier golf, midnight golf, nude golf, golfing nuns, golfing strippers, golf in Cambodia and the First Annual Pamela Anderson Bikini Golf Open, to be held next month in Mexico.
The upstart competition is relatively small in terms of circulation. Mr. Caruso said that Maximum Golf's circulation was 350,000, a figure he has submitted to the Audit Bureau of Circulations, compared with 1.6 million for Golf Digest and 1.4 million for Golf Magazine. But the newcomers have sent a signal to the rest of the field, which is experiencing significant corporate change while gingerly experimenting with newer editorial sensibilities. 
The two giants changed hands this year. In January, Times Mirror sold its magazine group, which included Golf, to AOL Time Warner's Time Inc. division. 
The next month, The New York Times Company sold Golf Digest and its owner, the Golf Digest Companies, to Advance Publications. Advance, of course, owns Conde Nast and Fairchild Publications, purveyors of frothier titles like Vanity Fair, W, Vogue and GQ and Conde Nast Traveler. And last year, Travel & Leisure Golf hired an editor in chief from a men's magazine who favors cover subjects like Martin Sheen and Michael Jordan over golf stars like Phil Mickelson. 
And the companies have not even reached the ninth-hole water station yet. Last week, the Golf Digest Companies bought Golf for Women from Meredith Publishing. Mitchell B. Fox, the company's chief executive, said that he would work to find synergies with "our brother and sister magazines" at Advance's Conde Nast and Fairchild Publications. He also announced a partnership with Business Week to publish special supplements -- on subjects like buying homes in golf communities -- that will be circulated to high-income readers of Business Week.
Richard S. Alfano, president of Golf Magazine Properties, betrayed no fears of his big rival's latest moves. He said that being part of AOL Time Warner gave his magazine resources available to no other golf publisher. 
"We can now align ourselves with the strongest weekly in the golf world, Sports Illustrated Golf Plus," Mr. Alfano said, as well as the cable channel CNN Sports Illustrated and the Web site golfonline.com. 
"Golf Digest is now part of a women's company," he said of his competitor. "We're more sports oriented."
George Peper, the editor in chief of Golf for the last 23 years, said the transition to AOL Time Warner had been a chance for growth and that the magazine had been radically redesigned. Its April cover -- which featured a brilliant red background, bold type and provocative headline -- looked spiritually akin to Maximum Golf, and the editor's letter suggested that the new magazine was doing "a creditable job of massaging your erogenous golf zones."
If it seems odd that venerable Golf Magazine would address erogenous zones, Mr. Peper said it was an effort to address readers' changing tastes. 
"Readers wanted things faster paced," Mr. Peper said. "There was also a desire for more golf courses they could afford. And we thought, well, we need to appeal to younger people too."
But Mr. Caruso of Maximum Golf would have none of it.
"You know they are all changing because of us," he said. "Look at Golf's redesign. The big fat letters, the big fat numbers, the cover. Man, somebody looked at our magazine when they were doing that redesign. 
"We are the only ones capturing the true spirit of golf," Mr. Caruso continued. Golf Digest and Golf "are so boring, they're like Sominex." 
Mr. Peper of Golf Magazine said he paid no mind to Mr. Caruso's jibes. As soon as Maximum Golf's readers "begin to take the game of golf seriously," he said, "they will abandon that magazine." 
And Mr. Fox of Golf Digest was dismissive. "Maximum Golf," he said, "is one of hundreds of little golf magazines out there scratching and scraping for nickels and dimes."
But in fact, Maximum Golf has a significant backer. Two years ago, Mr. Caruso persuaded Rupert Murdoch and the News Corporation to invest in his golf magazine, the only magazine -- now a year old -- published by Mr. Murdoch in the United States. And rather than scraping for nickels and dimes, Maximum Golf's ad revenue has held steady since the first issue in June 2000, according to its publisher, Terry Russell.
Most of the rest of the field is down. Golf Digest's ad pages this year through April were down 15 percent, from 505 pages last year to 429 pages this year, according to the Publishers Information Bureau. Golf Magazine is off by 14 percent, from 569 to 486 pages. The one exception is Travel & Leisure Golf, published every two months, whose ad pages are up by 1.4 percent, from 162 to 164.
But ad executives predict that the golf magazines will quickly rebound. Gene DeWitt, chief executive of Optimedia International U.S., an advertising services agency in New York, said that advertisers cling to golf magazines because the readers tend be not only affluent, but fanatic.
"They have an obsessive quality," said Mr. DeWitt, who is not a golfer. "Forget about golf itself, which is the dumbest thing since I don't know what. But these people actually enjoy watching it on television, and you can't even see the ball. So you know that with golfers, their obsession is total. Show them a club or a ball that will get them another meter on a drive, and they will sell their first born. And that is great for advertisers."
Under pressure from advertisers, however, Mr. Caruso has toned down the magazine. The first issue featured Donald Trump's girlfriend, Melania Knauss, nude, luxuriating in a bathtub of strategically placed golf balls. There was also a centerfold feature, "Cart Girl of the Month." 
Such features and flourishes have been dropped. "It was partly because of advertisers, and also an editorial evolution," the publisher, Mr. Russell, said.
But the rest of the golf magazines -- even as they add spice to their pages -- insist that Maximum Golf's offbeat approach cannot sustain a magazine for the long run. John Atwood, the editor in chief of Travel & Leisure Golf -- who was hired last year from Men's Journal -- predicted that Maximum Golf would not last, simply because there were not enough gonzo golfers. 
"Golf is still a very traditional sport, " he said. "Tiger Woods works for Buick and American Express -- established companies that have a lot of respect for tradition and the history of the game, and so do we. Golf is not about a bunch of yahoos racing around on their carts drinking beer with their caps on backwards." 
But even T & L Golf is changing. Mr. Atwood said that soon he would for the first time feature "some beautiful women on the cover." (The volleyball player and model Gabrielle Reece will be the cover model for the July issue.)
Mr. Caruso said that he might further shift Maximum Golf by adding features for women. 
"Everybody wigs out when there is a woman on the golf course," he said. "Some women are out there playing, but not enough of them. It's basically one big prison movie out there. It is a great way to meet guys, but it is not a great way to meet girls." 
He paused and a reporter could practically hear the light bulb start to buzz above his head. 
"Who knows, maybe we could be a part of changing that," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Caruso, editor of Maximum Golf, left, says a game once dominated by the older set has "thrown off its uncool shackles." Evidence of revived interest is seen in a spate of golf magazines, new and retooled, that cater to a wide variety of styles. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. C1); One marked departure from golf's traditional moorings is this digitally flavored cover from Fringe Golf, with items on golfing nuns and Las Vegas hustlers. Another, Maximum Golf's Cart Girl centerfold, below, has been phased out. (pg. C7) Chart: "New Kids on the Fairway"Mainstay golf magazines are facing newer rivals like Maximum Golf and T&L Golf. Chart shows total paid circulation. Six month averages ended Dec.'00. Golf Digest: 1,563,000Change from comparable period in 1999: +0.2% Golf Magazine: 1,405,000Change from comparable period in 1999: +0.2% Maximum Golf*: 360,000 T&L Golf: 307,000Change from comparable period in 1999: -2.6%*From the publisher; changes not available.(Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations; Maximum Golf)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); BASEBALL (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); POP & ROCK (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%) GOLF; MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%); CHICAGO CUBS (57%) GOLF DIGEST (MAGAZINE); GOLF (MAGAZINE); MAXIMUM GOLF (MAGAZINE); T&L GOLF (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (58%) KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%); CAMBODIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



762 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Can Good Marriages Be Legislated? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Bible Belt Couples 'Put Asunder' More, Despite New Efforts" (front page, May 21) does not address the welfare of children. When Gov. 
Frank Keating of Oklahoma used $10 million of welfare money to pay for an anti-divorce campaign, he took that money from the mouths of hungry children. 
 The Bible Belt leaders and "anti divorce foot soldiers" who push legislative, religious and economic agendas that are aimed at reducing divorce, cohabitation and single-parent households by increasing marriage rates are fighting a moral crusade while neglecting the needs of children. 
Instead, they could direct their attention -- and money -- to the needs of parents and children trying to survive in a society that is not meeting their economic and social needs. 

CONSTANCE R. AHRONS
Senior Research Scholar
Council on Contemporary Families
Cambridge, Mass., May 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILD WELFARE (88%); PARENTS (88%); SINGLE PARENTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (71%) DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; FINANCES 

PERSON: AHRONS, CONSTANCE R; KEATING, FRANK (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) OKLAHOMA

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



763 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Parking Worsens At Newark Airport 

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Traf-fic congestion at Newark International Airport is likely to worsen this summer, officials say. 
Construction has robbed the airport of 1,400 parking spaces. Memorial Day is considered the start of the summer tourism season, but June is when the peak vacation season for air travel begins. Last year, the airport had up to 200,000 additional passengers in June, July and August. Summer typically brings a 6 percent rise in volume, but because of a softening economy, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expecting half of that increase. 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); AIRLINES (88%); TOURISM (84%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); ROADS AND TRAFFIC; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



764 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3654 words

HEADLINE: Dad, What's a Clutch? Well, at One Time . . . 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: GLEN BURNIE, Md., May 26 

 BODY:
With a wicked grin slicing his jaw, Curtis Preston, 38, turns up the ramp to the highway. Wham! He crushes the accelerator to the floor and holds it there. With his left foot, he pounds down the clutch. With his fist, he slams the gear shift into second, then third, then fourth.
 The engine howls, then wheezes, howls and wheezes. In six seconds of a heavy-metal symphony of muscle and motion, Mr. Preston's red 1986 Chrysler Laser hits 60. In 14 seconds, he goes a quarter of a mile. 
 "When you used that clutch in my '61 Impala, you ended up with a calf that looked like Popeye's," Mr. Preston said. "I believe that rolling a four-speed is an art form. It's something you have to think about. It's not God-given." 
But the Laser with its manual transmission is a 20th-century artifact, and so might be most rubber-peeling Popeyes. 
The true clutch-equipped, stick-shifting manual transmission -- even today called the standard transmission -- has shrunk to a mere toy. Six decades since the debut of the Oldsmobile Hydra-Matic, the demise of the manual transmission has accelerated, forced along by stop-and-go highways, brutal commutes, hard-to-handle cell phones and, most recently, make-believe five-speeds that do not even have clutches.
"I wouldn't say it's necessarily our objective to phase out the stick," said Matt Kester, a spokesman for General Motors Powertrain, the G.M. division that makes engines and transmissions.
"It's a cultural issue," Mr. Kester said. "It's just that much more work" to operate a stick shift. 
Other developments are undermining the stick. Cars with automatic transmissions usually cost $500 to $1,000 more than stick-shift cars, but that gap is shrinking. And manual transmissions used to be peppier and more fuel efficient than their automatic counterparts. Now, automatics, governed by sophisticated computers, are burning gas more wisely. "That fuel economy penalty is largely disappearing," said Paul Taylor, chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association in Washington. 
Hertz, Avis and National no longer carry cars with manual transmissions. State motor vehicle regulators do not require training in stick shifts, and high school driver education programs do not offer it. Some driving schools do, but they charge a premium for it. 
At the extremes of the marketplace, the $9,000-to-$15,000 bare-bones low-powered cars and sporty $40,000-and-up high-performance road burners, drivers can still readily find manual transmissions. 
But by last year, according to Ward's Automotive Reports, manual transmissions accounted for just 8.7 percent of cars made in the United States, down from 12.4 percent in 1996.
Two decades ago, 20 to 25 percent of all new vans had manual transmissions, the Environmental Protection Agency reports. Now none do. Ten percent of sport utility vehicles have stick shifts, compared with 40 percent of similar vehicles in 1975. Throaty Mustangs, Camaros and Trans Ams, a new Lincoln LS and a Volvo V70 have them. But they have disappeared from popular full-size cars like the Ford Taurus and the Pontiac Bonneville and from all Buicks. Last year, Chrysler dropped them from the Jeep Cherokee. 
Curt Preston works at the mid-Atlantic's high temple of transmission service and repair, Glen Burnie Transmissions, a 40-year-old business on Ritchie Highway in Glen Burnie, a suburb south of Baltimore. Chain operators like Aamco are bigger, but Marvin Keyser, 72, the owner and co-founder, says his suppliers tell him the shop, with its 24 bays and 50 mechanics, is the biggest in the nation under one roof. 
The mechanics here say an automatic is still no match for a stick. "You can keep control of the power better," Mr. Preston said. "You can use the engine to pull it down" -- slowing the car by shifting to a lower gear rather than relying solely on the brakes and wearing them down.
"They also last a lot longer than automatics," Mr. Preston said. Repair usually entails little more than replacing a clutch, at a cost of $100 to $300. Today's much more complex electronic-controlled automatics require more work, typically costing $900 or more.
But cars with manual transmissions have declined to less than 4 percent of all those the shop sees. Even the mechanics here prefer automatics. Only 10 of the 50 drive stick shifts. One of the two who specialize in servicing sticks, Jack Bell, drives a Ford 150 pickup with an automatic transmission.
Until he bought that, he said, "I had three or four cars with sticks." But on the highway outside Baltimore, he said, "they're terrible."
"You go two feet, push the clutch, go two feet, push the clutch," he added. 
The dominance of automatic transmissions is an American phenomenon, Mr. Kester of General Motors said. They have captured only 12 percent of the European market. Europeans drive cars. Americans eat, drink and live in them during ever-longer commutes. They also talk, and the impossibility of shifting, steering and dialing a cell phone has further imperiled the stick.
"The European mind-set," Mr. Kester, "is A, you can't get good mileage with an automatic, and B, only weenies drive them."
"I don't want to be stereotyping," he added, "but Europeans prefer the acoustic acceleration experience, whereas for Americans the big selling point is a quiet car." 
Stop in the automobile dealerships stretched along the six lanes of Ritchie Highway, and you can feel the stick's doom. One dealer carries the Kia Rio, a bare-bones Korean car, with a manual transmission. But it appeals only to the thinnest wallets. It gets 32 miles a gallon on the highway, and at a price of $9,390, less a rebate of $500, it is the cheapest, and sparest, automobile in America. 
To shoppers who come in looking for manual transmissions, Rick Melzer, a salesman at Bob Bell Ford, which also sells Korean Daewoos, said: "First I would say, 'Why do you want a stick?' Sticks are popular with 16- and 18-year-old kids." But mostly for reasons of economic necessity. The least expensive car Mr. Melzer sells is a Daewoo with a stick, which goes for $9,900. 
At Tate Chrysler Plymouth, nearly all the 40 Jeep Wranglers have manual transmissions. Jack Hodges, a salesman, attributes that to the car's unique appeal to young buyers who drive them on beaches -- and also to their price, typically below $15,000. But once buyers get older, and are able to afford more expensive machines, Mr. Hodges said, they are happy to leave the stick behind. 
He cites Chrysler's PT Cruiser, a nostalgia car with a big toothy grill and boxy rear that would not be out of place in a 50's drag race. 
But there is a limit to consumers' retro impulses. The Cruisers have been flying out the door, except for one. "It's a stick shift," Mr. Hodges said, "and the only reason it's here is that it's stick shift." 
Crouching like a tiger in the showroom's prime spot is a car that does have a manual transmission -- of sorts. It is a $47,000 midnight blue Chrysler Prowler, a descendant of the low-slung hot rods that had manual transmissions. In a cruel twist, though, the Prowler is equipped with a technology that could spell the end of the true manual transmission. 
The gearbox looks as if it has a stick. But the car has no clutch. Drivers can push the stick from gear to gear, allowing them some of the control of a manual transmission, but they can also slip it into automatic. And if they rev it up too high, the automatic kicks in and slows the engine down.
This is what Chrysler calls the AutoStick, introduced five years ago and now appearing in the company's Sebring and Stratus lines. Over the last three years, all the German cars have introduced variations -- even Porsche, which stunned the hard-driving faithful three years ago when it introduced something it calls the Tiptronic. It is now offered in Audis and Volkswagens.
"What you have is a clutchless, driver-influenced transmission that you up- and downshift with the press or a button and movement of the shifter," explained James Sanfilippo, executive vice president of Automotive Marketing Consultants in Warren, Mich. "At first, dyed-in-the-wool Porschephiles wouldn't have it. But they're finding it a joy to drive." 
Mr. Sanfilippo calls these transmissions "manumatics."
Now they, too, have a challenger. In its new and highly fuel-efficient Civic HX, Honda has introduced the "continuously variable transmission." "You get no sensation at all of gears changing," Mr. Sanfilippo said. 
For all that, said Mr. Keyser of Glen Burnie Transmissions, there will always be a place for the manual transmission. "You'll still need them in the bigger trucks," he said.
O'Connor's voting rights decisions also reflect her refusal to defer to elected representatives and to reserve for herself the exclusive authority to define illegal discrimination. In a series of opinions beginning with Shaw v. Reno in 1993, O'Connor has cast tiebreaking votes to strike down voting districts constructed on the basis of race. At the same time, she has taken care to stress that not all race consciousness is unconstitutional. But O'Connor has never revealed the constitutional standards that, in her view, distinguish permissible from impermissible voting districts, except to adopt a version of Justice Potter Stewart's test for identifying obscenity: you know it when you see it. This has vastly increased O'Connor's power but has given little guidance to state legislators and judges.
O'Connor's highhanded attitude toward Congress, state courts and the American people reached its apotheosis in Bush v. Gore. During the oral argument, O'Connor seemed impatient with the fact that elderly voters in Florida had not been able to follow the voting instructions. She also indicated that she felt personally affronted by the Florida Supreme Court's failure to address concerns the Supreme Court had expressed in an earlier opinion. "I did not find, really, a response by the Florida Supreme Court to this court's remand in the case a week ago," she said. "And I found that troublesome."
David Souter and Stephen Breyer had hoped to persuade O'Connor and Kennedy to join an opinion that would have acknowledged that the imposition of different counting standards in the same county raised constitutional questions but also would have allowed the Florida Supreme Court to correct the problem by fashioning a uniform standard under which the recount could proceed. At the justices' private conference after the argument, however, O'Connor made it clear that under no circumstances would she allow the recount to proceed, although she was open to different arguments for stopping it. Some speculated that she was acting as a partisan Republican determined to ensure Bush's election at all costs. The more charitable explanation, however, is that she and the other conservative justices had convinced themselves that the Florida court was a group of partisan Democrats who had to be prevented from stealing the election and that they trusted themselves more than Congress to resolve the confusion. 
In the face of O'Connor's intransigence, Souter and Breyer focused their efforts instead on Kennedy. Characteristically, Kennedy agonized for a time on the afternoon of Dec. 11, but eventually he decided that he would join O'Connor in voting to halt the recount. He then drafted the bulk of what became the per curiam opinion in Bush v. Gore. But partly at O'Connor's insistence, the opinion included a disclaimer making clear that its reasoning applied only to this case and should not bind the court's hands in future cases. "Our consideration is limited to the present circumstances," the opinion announced, "for the problem of equal protection in election processes generally presents many complexities."
Although the circumstances that produced it are unusual, Bush v. Gore is a typical example of O'Connor's personalized jurisprudence. As in many of her opinions, the reasoning was designed for one case only, so narrowly confined to the unique facts of the 2000 election that O'Connor all but defied anyone to ask her to apply the same logic to another election in the future. The opinion displayed a fear of Congress as a partisan body not to be trusted with important political and constitutional decisions. It exalted the power of the only institution that the court trusts to identify illegal discrimination in America -- namely, itself. It reflected a view of judges as national saviors who have a responsibility to rescue the country from political uncertainty. And although it was designed to heal partisan divisions, it had the effect of worsening them. As Howard Gillman of the University of Southern California notes, a Gallup poll in January 2001 found that the court's overall approval rating wasn't very different from what it had been before the court intervened in the election. But partisan reaction to the court changed significantly. Among Republicans, approval of the court between August and January jumped from 60 percent to 80 percent, but among Democrats, it fell from 70 percent to 42 percent.
Soon after Bush v. Gore came down, I received an e-mail message from a former O'Connor clerk I had never met who expressed despair over the "incredible activism and arguable illegitimacy" of the decision. "I clerked for Justice O'Connor," it read, "and although I disagreed with several of her votes, I retained a hope that these were principled differences of judicial approach. I have now lost all hope, and I just feel depressed." A few months later, passions have cooled, and this clerk told me that O'Connor was acting in what she perceived to be the best interest of the country. Nevertheless, the clerk continues to see Bush v. Gore as only the most telling example of a pattern that runs throughout O'Connor's jurisprudence, which is that she "fundamentally distrusts Congress and the political process's ability to resolve constitutional questions."
Among the justices, too, passions in the wake of Bush v. Gore have cooled. Soon after the decision, more than one liberal justice was said to have remarked privately that the conservatives were deluding themselves in their belief that they were saving the country. Today, however, some of the Bush v. Gore dissenters are facing with equanimity the prospect that one author of the decision might be promoted to chief justice. The court, they believe, could do worse than O'Connor. 
O'Connor has always been on good terms with her more liberal colleagues. She is close to David Souter, whom she has invited to her house to share Thanksgiving dinner with her clerks, concerned that the bachelor justice not be alone during the holidays. And Ruth Bader Ginsburg is especially grateful to O'Connor for being the first person to call her in the hospital after her colon cancer was diagnosed. Sharing her own experience as a survivor of breast cancer, O'Connor advised Ginsburg to have chemotherapy treatments on Friday so that she could be strong enough to come to work on Monday. In her speech to the National Coalition of Cancer Survivorship in 1996, O'Connor said that she approached her decision to have a mastectomy the way she approaches her decisions on the court, gathering as much information as possible and then never looking back. Ginsburg has appreciated O'Connor's support since she joined the court as the second female justice, but their common experience in battling cancer has brought them even closer together.
It is true that liberals could do worse than O'Connor when it comes time for Bush to pick a new chief justice. Sensing that her train may have already left the station, some distinguished liberals are already falling into line. "I don't remember another historical instance when it was so clear who the next chief justice would and should be," says Walter Dellinger, a former solicitor general in the Clinton administration. Some are even speculating that O'Connor may have chosen not to resign because she sensed that her promotion was in the air. And from Bush's perspective, neither of the other two internal candidates -- Kennedy or Scalia, both of whom are said to be yearning for the job -- would bring anything like the political pizazz of O'Connor. 
If Bush promotes O'Connor to replace Rehnquist and if he nominates another moderate conservative on abortion, like Alberto Gonzalez, the White House counsel, as an associate justice, he might ensure two relatively civil confirmation hearings without the specter of Roe rearing up to embarrass him. And now that the Democrats control the Senate in the wake of Senator James Jeffords's defection, they have made clear that no extreme conservative Supreme Court nominees need apply. Of course, if Bush were to promote the woman who helped make him president, some Democrats would grumble about a quid pro quo, but any concern about appearances might also be muted in the general relief that Bush had found a compromise candidate who offers something for everyone. 
While O'Connor's moderate conservatism may fit America's current mood, it is worth asking whether her vision of the court's role in American life really is appropriate today. During her confirmation hearings 20 years ago, O'Connor offered the usual platitudes about judicial restraint, insisting that her experiences "as a state court judge and as a state legislator . . . have strengthened my view that the proper role of the judiciary is one of interpreting and applying the law, not making it." But on the court, the most distinctive quality of O'Connor's jurisprudence has been not judicial restraint but a kind of judicial imperiousness: she views the court in general, and herself in particular, as the proper forum to decide every political and constitutional question in the land. And she refuses to defer to competing interpretations by Congress or the state legislatures when they clash with her own. 
Why hasn't O'Connor's elevated view of her own authority triggered more of a response from the democratic bodies whose judgments she has refused to respect? Perhaps liberals, intoxicated since the Warren era by heroic visions of judges as national saviors, are reluctant to criticize aggressive acts of judicial intervention, even when they disagree with the results. Perhaps conservatives are grateful to have O'Connor convert their political defeats into judicial victories. Perhaps Congress is relieved to be spared the need to make politically controversial decisions on a range of subjects -- from abortion to the presidential election -- in which any settlement is sure to create powerful enemies and lingering resentments. 
And perhaps the public, too, is pleased to live in Justice O'Connor's America, a place where our political debates are confined to an ever milder range of disagreement. Twenty years ago, fierce battles were still raging in Congress and the states about the constitutionality and desirability of abortion restrictions, school prayer and Miranda warnings. Today, thanks to the judicial settlements that O'Connor has decreed, we fight about these issues only around the margins. O'Connor may have imposed her own preferences on America by judicial fiat, but her preferences often mirror those of the typical American voter with uncanny precision. O'Connor is our national gyroscope, measuring our wishes and enacting them into law without the bother of a political debate. If O'Connor were a legislator, she might be re-elected by something close to acclamation. 
But Justice O'Connor is no longer a legislator; she is the most influential member of the most powerful unelected court in the world. And in America, unelected judges are not supposed to spare voters the responsibility of engaging in the messy business of self-government. Surely conservatives were right when they insisted, for the past 50 years, that judges should be avatars of judicial restraint -- that they should defer to elected representatives rather than usurping their authority, that they should allow political battles to be fought in legislatures rather than in courts. 
Contrast O'Connor's embroidered motto -- Maybe in error but never in doubt" -- with the judicial tradition that was embraced by some liberals and conservatives during the first half of the 20th century. This is the tradition of judicial humility, which emphasizes the importance of self-doubt rather than self-confidence. "The spirit of liberty is the spirit that is not too sure that it is right," declared Learned Hand, the most self-doubting judge of all. Judges like Hand, Oliver Wendell Holmes and Louis Brandeis insisted that absolute truth is elusive, that there are a range of plausible views in a pluralistic democracy and that judges should have enough of an appreciation of their own fallibility to give elected representatives broad discretion to interpret and enforce the Constitution without interference from the courts.
Sitting with Justice O'Connor in her office, I read aloud the Wallace Stegner passage that she had quoted in her speech, about how growing up in the West tells an individual not only how small he is but also who he is. At the end of the passage, I noticed a sentence she had omitted from her formal remarks. "I have never understood identity problems," Stegner wrote. O'Connor has never understood identity problems, either. "Sandra really, really knows who she is and is very comfortable with that as a human being," her brother says. In the Legislature and on the court, in public and in private, O'Connor's life has been a seamless whole: she knows what she thinks and has no hesitation about voting her mind. But although decisiveness and self-confidence are admirable traits in a legislator, a president or a supreme allied commander, they are not always the pre-eminent virtues in an unelected judge. If Justice O'Connor were a little less willing to resolve our political battles, perhaps we could rediscover the experience of resolving them for ourselves. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 28 about the demise of the manual transmission misstated the year Porsche began offering its Tiptronic system, a clutchless transmission that lets a driver shift gears manually. It was 1989, not 1998.
An article on June 3 about Justice Sandra Day O'Connor misspelled the surname of the White House counsel, who was mentioned as a possible nominee for the Supreme Court. He is Alberto R. Gonzales, not Gonzalez. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Curtis Preston of Glen Burnie Transmissions in Maryland, left, behind the wheel of his 1986 Chrysler Laser, says driving a car with a stick shift is "an art form." But fewer than 4 percent of the cars worked on by Mr. Preston and co-workers like Tony Johnson have manual transmissions. (Photographs by Alex Brandon for The New York Times)(pg. A8)Photos: Sandra Day O'Connor (Sion Touhig/Corbis Sygma); Don't Fence Her In: O'Connor's self-confidence was developed riding and roping at the Lazy B. From top: The young cowgirl at about 10. State Senator O'Connor in 1972. The first female Supreme Court justice after her confirmation on Sept. 21, 1981. The full court in 1994 at its last formal portrait session. (Corbis Bettmann, The Arizona Republic: Corbis Bettmann, Robert Trippett/SIPA Press); Never in Doubt: With President Bush after swearing in Elaine Chao, right, as labor secretary in March. (Eric Draper/White House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); DRIVER EDUCATION (63%); AUTOMOBILE DRIVING SCHOOLS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUEL EFFICIENCY 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (59%); ELAINE CHAO (59%) KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001



765 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 3279 words

HEADLINE: At College Graduations, Wit and Wisdom for the Price of Airfare 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
Sure, George W. Bush used his commencement address at the University of Notre Dame this month to reiterate his faith in religious institutions as conveyors of social services. 
 But for every serious graduation speech this year by a world leader (Kofi Annan at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts) or a scholar (Cornel West at St. John's College in Santa Fe, N.M.), there was Bob Newhart telling one-liners at Loyola University in Chicago or Jon Bon Jovi deconstructing the record business at Monmouth University in New Jersey. 
 And parts of the commencement address at Vassar this month were as gory as "The Shining," which is understandable, because the distinguished orator was Stephen King.
Commencement speakers, when gathered as an annual class, have always been an eclectic group. Many colleges ask their own president to give graduates a final pep talk, while others tap a chief executive or poet. J. Edgar Hoover, then the F.B.I. director, spoke at Kalamazoo College in Michigan in 1937 about how science was transforming crime-fighting. President John F. Kennedy, speaking at American University in June 1963, called for disarmament. 
But the elevation of boldface-name celebrities to the graduation podium has intensified in the last decade, said Thomas F. Daly 3rd, former managing editor of Vital Speeches of the Day, a biweekly journal that has been publishing speeches since 1934. 
Mr. Daly suggests that the dredging of pop culture in search of motivational speakers is a function of America's everexpanding love affair with Hollywood and colleges' increasing need to distinguish themselves in a competitive marketplace. "Maybe it gives the school a little more prestige in the public's eye," he said. "And maybe this makes the graduates show up for graduation." 
Although Mr. Newhart, who graduated from Loyola in 1952, might not be a huge draw for those 21-year-olds who do not watch Nick at Nite, the university's alumni surely remember his television shows. And that might prod them to make a donation to the university when they are asked. 
In an effort to tread water somewhere between entertainment and serious scholarship, some colleges sought inspiration this year from television news. Jack Ford and Antonio Mora, of "Good Morning America," spoke at Seton Hall University and Ursinus College; Barbara Walters spoke at Sarah Lawrence; Tim Russert spoke at Old Dominion; and Bill O'Reilly, whose "The O'Reilly Factor" on Fox spawned a best-selling book by the same name, spoke at Marist College.
In many ways, this year's speeches were timeless. Representative Asa Hutchinson, an Arkansas Republican who was recently nominated by President Bush to lead the Drug Enforcement Administration, was one of many who spoke about the importance of brevity. "Commencement speakers should think of themselves as the body at an old-fashioned Irish wake," Mr. Hutchinson told graduates at Harding University in Searcy, Ark. "They need to have you there in order to have the party, but they don't expect you to say much." With remarks that ran short of 20 minutes, Mr. Hutchinson was one of the few who took his own advice. 
Many of the speakers looked back to their own graduations. Joe Boucher, the producer of the prime-time cartoon series "King of the Hill," told graduates at his alma mater, Roanoke College in Salem, Va., "I'm sure you're feeling the same way I did when I was about to graduate: hung over." 
The fluttery economy, and the challenge that it presents to graduates, made for an especially timely theme this season. Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, told graduates at Fairfield University in Connecticut, "Don't fall into the thinking that suggests your first job will decide your fate." 
Speakers scheduled to address graduates in June include Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary, Harvard; Garrison Keillor, Princeton; and Dr. Ruth Westheimer, Lehman College in the Bronx. 
As is customary, almost every institution got its speaker for the cost of an airline ticket. An exception was Lewis and Clark College in Portland, Ore., which did not have to pay an honorarium to last year's speaker (Ben Canada, the local superintendent of schools) but did pay an undisclosed fee to snare this year's (Lech Walesa, the former leader of Solidarity). 
But it was Erin Brockovich -- not Julia Roberts, who won an Academy Award playing her -- who broke the most ground. Ms. Brockovich, a spirited legal assistant who challenged a utility in a pollution case, addressed graduates of Jones International University in Englewood, Colo. That may not sound especially noteworthy, but Jones is an online university, and Ms. Brockovich was speaking to its 10 graduates over the Internet, via streaming video. 
"It's great to be here with you," she said, "even if I can't see you." 
Following are excerpts:

Stephen King
Author
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
A couple of years ago I found out what "you can't take it with you" means. I found out while I was lying in the ditch at the side of a country road, covered with mud and blood and with the tibia of my right leg poking out the side of my jeans like the branch of a tree taken down in a thunderstorm. I had a MasterCard in my wallet, but when you're lying in the ditch with broken glass in your hair, no one accepts MasterCard.

Bryant Gumbel
Host, "The Early Show"
Howard University, Washington, D.C.
Thirty six years ago, in times that were very different, yet still much the same, President Lyndon Baines Johnson stood before this institution's graduating class of 1965, and speaking of what he then called the American Negro, noted that, "Much of the Negro community is buried under a blanket of history and circumstance," and that, "It is not a lasting solution to lift just one corner of that blanket. We must stand on all sides and we must raise the entire cover, if we are to liberate our fellow citizens." . . . 
Still, that so much of what L.B.J. said is still true today is a sad commentary on America. We know that. But however painful it may be to admit, today's realities also speak volumes about what we as the privileged people of our race, the learned people of our race, the accomplished people of our race, have and have not done to change the plight of so many African-Americans. . . . 
While we should never join the chorus of those who are quick to blame the victim, we should take a hard look at ourselves and ask aloud if we're tolerating too much from our own -- and asking too little. . . . It's not enough for us to cite the troubling numbers of black folks in jail, but we've also got to confront and combat the reality that too many young people see jail time as some kind of badge of honor. . . . 
I'm not suggesting that the responsibility for all that and more is yours. You're entitled to live a rich life. . . . But if all you're going to seek is a superficial Ebony magazine view of life -- one that accentuates only your cars and your clothes -- then some guy's going to be standing here another 36 years from now, once again bemoaning the plight of people of color in these United States of America. 

Mario M. Cuomo
Former governor of New York
School of Visual Arts, Manhattan
When you've finally made it and are comfortable with your personal achievements. When you've achieved the status you deserve -- parked the second car in the garage, and enjoyed the hot tub, skied in Colorado, windsurfed in the Caribbean and visited all the temples of art and philosophy that you wanted to see -- most of you will feel the satisfaction of a life well led. And no one will challenge your right to feel that way. But for some of you questions will remain even after your fight for survival and personal comfort have been won. "Is this where the dream ends? For me? For America, the country that gave me all I have? Is there more I can do . . . and if so, should I?" . . . 
We have more billionaires, millionaires and people earning over $100,000 a year than ever, but altogether they are only 5 percent of the population. We have 37 million people who are still poor. Sixteen million of them children-at-risk. . . . All this in the strongest, richest, freest nation in the world. . . . 
We don't have to settle for an America that says, "This is as good as it gets: we can't do any better." 
Our federal government is telling us that our treasury has never been as rich as it is today. In fact, they say we will have such a large surplus over the next 10 years that we can give up nearly a trillion-and-a-half -- not a million or billion -- a trillion-and-a-half of our tax receipts, the largest part going to the top 2 percent of richest Americans. 
How do they justify that? 

Toni Morrison
Author
Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
I am not certain, nor should you be, that somehow a burgeoning menage a trois of political interests, corporate interests, military interests will not prevail and literally annihilate an inhabitable humane future. It is possible that with the company of obedient, quisling media such an unholy trinity can arrange things so that that human invention called the future will encompass that inhuman invention called fascism. . . . We can no longer rely on the separation of powers to keep this country invulnerable to that possibility while finite humans in the flux of time make decisions of permanent damage. . . . So I'm not going to speak to you about the future.

Elias Chacour
Palestinian priest
Emory University, Atlanta
You who live in the United States, if you are pro-Israel, on behalf of Palestinian children I call unto you: give further friendship to Israel. They need your friendship. But stop interpreting that friendship as an automatic antipathy against me, the Palestinian who is paying the bill for what others have done against my beloved Jewish brothers and sisters in the Holocuast and Auschwitz and elsewhere.
And if you have been enlightened enough to take the side of the Palestinians -- oh, bless your hearts -- take our sides, because for once you will be on the right side, right? But if taking our side would mean to become one-sided against my Jewish brothers and sisters, back up. We do not need such friendship. We need one more common friend. We do not need one more enemy, for God's sake.

Rod Paige
United States secretary of education
University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.
As we celebrate your outstanding achievements, nearly 70 percent of inner-city and rural fourth graders cannot read at even a basic level. Imagine that: in the greatest, wealthiest nation the world has ever known, nearly 7 out of every 10 fourth graders in big cities and rural areas cannot read. It is our greatest failure as a nation. It is our failure as a people. And we must do something about it.

Andrew J. Young
Former mayor of Atlanta and former United States representative at the United Nations
National University, San Diego
Almost all of the conventional wisdom of our time is in the process of being refined, so that what's important is that you know that you have the capacity to build upon the knowledge and experience of the past and create your own future. And just as I think the difficulty of race defined my success for the last 50 years, I would suggest that the challenge of poverty will define yours. 
Almost every problem we face now is related to the fact that, as Martin Luther King said, we have people isolated on lonely islands of poverty in the midst of this ocean of material wealth. And all the problems of hate, all the problems of disease, of ignorance, of almost any difficulty you want to define starts in those islands of poverty.
I remind people as we see the young people nowadays -- with their pants down halfway across their backsides, and they're all braided, and funny things are shaved -- this is really the culture of the jail that has become the mainstream culture of youth society. We are either going to deal with the troubles and problems spawned out of poverty or we will find it undercutting many of the values and beliefs and ideals that have made us what we are today.

Jim Lehrer
News anchor, "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer"
Tufts University, Medford, Mass.
Boston once played an important, if a bit unusual, part in my life. For nearly two years, I yelled out the word "Boston" into a microphone several times a day. That was in the 1950's in the south Texas town of Victoria. I was going to a small junior college and at night working as a ticket agent at the Continental Trailways bus depot. And, among other things, I did this: 
"May I have your attention please. This is your last call for Continental Trailways Silversides air-conditioned thru liner to Houston and Dallas. Now leaving from Lane 1 next to the building for Inez, Edna, Ganado, Louise, El Camps, Pierce, Wharton, Kendleton, Beasley, Rosenberg, Richmond, Sugarland, Stafford, Missouri City, Houston, Huntsville, Buffalo, Corsicana and Dallas. Connecting in Dallas for Tulsa, Joplin, St. Louis, Indianapolis, Columbus, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, New York and Boston. All aboard. Don't forget your baggage please." 
You learn something early, and it's totally irrelevant, and you never forget it. . . . 
I wish that I could change the tune a bit today for you, and report that journalism has been born again and all is well. But I cannot do that. 
It continues at times to embarrass me, to annoy me, anger me even occasionally. The causes of my concern are out there for all to see, of course -- a tendency of journalism to be something akin to professional wrestling, something to watch rather than to believe. The savagery of some of the so-called new journalism, marked by predatory stake-outs, coarse invasions of privacy, talk show shouting, no-source reporting and other techniques, the stunning new blurring of the old lines between straight news, analysis and opinion. 
A most unjustified arrogance that seems to have afflicted some of my colleagues. It can be seen in a stench of contempt in their approach, words, sneers and body language that say loud and clear, "Only the journalists of America are pure enough to judge all others." 

Doris Kearns Goodwin
Historian
Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.
I did end up working for Lyndon Johnson in the White House the last year of his presidency and then accompanying him to his ranch the last four years of his life to help him on his memoirs.
Now, on the surface, he should have had everything in the world to be grateful for in those last years. His career in politics had reached its peak in becoming president of the United States. He had all the money he needed to pursue any leisure activity he wanted. He owned a spacious ranch in the country, a penthouse apartment in the city, a half dozen cars equipped with traveling bars, a sailboat, a speedboat, a movie theater in his own home, and this amazing swimming pool that was equipped with floating rafts, on top of which were floating desks and floating notepads and floating sandwiches, so that you could work at every moment. 
And yet the man I saw in his retirement had spent so many years in pursuit of work, power and individual success that he had absolutely no psychic or emotional resources left to commit himself to anything once the presidency was taken from him. 
Years of concentration solely on work meant that in his retirement he could find no solace in recreation, sports, or hobbies. . . . 
A month before he died, he spoke to me with immense sadness in his voice. He said he was watching the American people absorbed in a new president, forgetting him, forgetting, he feared, even the great civil rights laws that he had passed, and was beginning to think that his quest for immortality had been in vain. 
Perhaps, he said, he would have been better off focusing more time and attention on his family. 

Joe Boucher
Producer, "King of the Hill"
Roanoke College, Salem, Va.
I strutted onto the back quad as a freshman with a thick Long Island accent, tight shorts, and a Judas Priest T-shirt. Some of the upperclassmen were so appalled they burned my shorts before Christmas break. . . . 
I spent the summer before my senior year, trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life. Then one day I got the idea to make a lacrosse movie. . . . So I pitched the idea to my mother, and she said, "That's nice dear; while you're at it, why don't you flush this big bag of cash and your diploma down the toilet." 
Actually, she loved the idea and encouraged me to follow my inspiration. So after graduation, I set out for California with the dream of making a movie. 
I didn't actually know anyone who worked in Hollywood so I worked at a health club and sold cars. Actually, the term cars would be misleading. I sold a car. . . . 
My luck changed the day I decided to sneak onto the 20th Century Fox lot. . . . Lucky for me, the woman behind the personnel desk thought I was nice enough to give a break, so she recommended me for a job in the mailroom. . . . I brought Rupert Murdoch his mail every morning and wrote my film every night. And despite the monotony of sorting mail, there were some moments of encouragement. 
One afternoon I was delivering mail to a vice president's office when I overheard him ask his assistant where Rhode Island was. She replied, "I'm not sure; I think it's in Massachusetts." And I thought to myself, "I can make it here. I know where Rhode Island is. Heck, I even know where Delaware is." 

Elsa Klensch
Fashion journalist
Fashion Institute of Technology, Manhattan
Don't believe your own publicity.

Bob Newhart
Comedian and actor
Loyola University, Chicago
In preparation for today, I read a number of other commencement addresses. There seems to be an obligatory reference to Aldous Huxley's "Brave New World." 
Also, you should attempt to give the perception that you are intelligent. You don't actually have to be intelligent, if you can just create the perception. This can usually be accomplished by a reference to Kafka, even if you have never read any of his -- or her -- works.

Daniel S. Goldin
NASA administrator
Augsburg College, Minneapolis
Graduation is a great accomplishment, but I look at it as just the end of the design and testing phase. It says we've completed all the system checks. Now, you are sitting proudly on the launch pad. . . . 
It's going to be an exhilarating trip. But I'm not here to tell you what you are going to find. It's like one of NASA's missions. Everybody experiences something different. And to be honest, we don't know exactly what is out there. That's precisely why we go. Overcoming the unexpected and discovering the unknown is what ignites our spirit. It is what life is all about.

Jon Bon Jovi
Musician and Actor
Monmouth University, West Long Branch, N.J.
I may have been very successful in my music career, but when I started a film career, I was just another actor looking for work. . . . 
It took persistence and patience and years of waiting until I finally won my first movie role. Truth be told, on the way from the airport to the set that first day, the idea of turning around and running away did cross my mind. I had gone from three years of studying in a room with that acting coach to standing on the set of a major motion picture beside Gwyneth Paltrow, Whoopi Goldberg and Kathleen Turner. . . . It was like the first day of school for me, and I couldn't call my mother to hold my hand. 
We all fail somewhere along the line. The race you lost, the test you didn't pass and, in my case, the record execs who claimed, "You'll never make it in the music business." Whatever. The point is, you get up, brush yourself off and get on with life. . . . 
Tonight, play hard. You've earned it and you deserve it. JACQUES STEINBERG

GRAPHIC: Photos: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT -- Rod Paige stressed the importance of reading. (Associated Press); SMITH COLLEGE -- Toni Morrison spoke of an uncertain future. (Associated Press); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY -- Jon Bon Jovi received an honorary degree. (Associated Press); VASSAR COLLEGE -- Stephen King told graduates about lying in a ditch, bloody, and with his shin bone sticking through his jeans after being hit by a van in 1999 in Maine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AIR FARES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); RELIGION (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); ALUMNI (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); WRITERS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (66%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); STEPHEN KING (68%); TIM RUSSERT (50%); BILL O'REILLY (50%); BARBARA WALTERS (50%) STEINBERG, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



766 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: U.S. WILL OFFER AID TO MOSCOW IN PLAN TO UNDO ABM PACT 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 27 

 BODY:
To win Russia's cooperation in scrapping the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, the Bush administration is preparing a broad offer of arms purchases, military aid and joint antimissile exercises, according to senior Administration strategists.
 Officials said the proposals are likely to include an offer to buy Russian-made S-300 surface-to-air missiles that could be integrated into a defensive shield over Russia and Europe. 
 Some proposals have been sketched out to Russian officials, and the full plan is to be presented in conjunction with the first meeting between President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin, on June 16 in Slovenia.
Other proposals build on ideas considered during the first Bush administration and pushed, unsuccessfully, when Bill Clinton was president. Those include offers to hold joint exercises in future years to identify and shoot down attacking warheads, to provide money for Russia's decaying radar system and to share early-warning data. 
The administration has not elaborated on its plans publicly. 
But in an interview last week, Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's national security adviser, explained the broader context of the administration's objective: "We want to convince the Russians that it is in their best interest to move beyond the ABM treaty and to develop a new relationship with us." 
Mr. Bush finds himself in the position of needing President Putin's agreement to dispense with the ABM treaty -- both to defuse strong European objections to the military plans and to satisfy Congress, where Senate committees overseeing military and foreign affairs are about to come under Democratic control. 
The evolving strategy is in strong contrast to that of the administration's early weeks, when Mr. Bush and his national security aides said they were preparing to speed ahead alone to undo the treaty.
But Mr. Bush's plan faces many obstacles -- in Moscow, here in Washington and in foreign capitals, especially Beijing. The offers to Russia, for example, may be insufficient for Mr. Putin or the military bureaucracy he must control, a bureaucracy the administration is trying to steer around.
Most details of the administration's proposals have not been presented to Moscow, though hints were floated in meetings earlier this month. One administration official said that there was "zero indication" of a response, but added that "we hope to have cooperative proposals -- on missile defense, on nuclear reductions and on a broader relationship -- by the middle of the summer."
Mr. Bush's task has been greatly complicated by the defection of Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont from the Republican Party, and the subsequent loss of Republican control of the Senate. The Democratic senators likely to take over as chairmen of the Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees are wary of Mr. Bush's plans, and have expressed a determined opposition to a unilateral withdrawal from the missile treaty. 
So, one senior White House official acknowledged, "if we are going to make this work, the Russians have to agree to the plan." 
Even a limited alliance with Moscow on missile defense would almost certainly raise fears among Chinese leaders that they were being frozen out and that the system was being designed to contain their modest nuclear force. Mr. Putin and President Jiang Zemin of China have themselves begun talking about cooperation to counter growing American military and economic power around the globe. 
White House officials say that over time, they might also be willing to share some technology with Beijing.
The administration's ideas were first outlined to Russian officials earlier this month in Moscow by Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul D. Wolfowitz and Stephen J. Hadley, the deputy national security adviser.
Ultimately, the administration's inducements may include nonmilitary matters. For example, the White House is already discussing economic aid or help in developing legal and commercial systems that would make Russia more attractive to foreign investors, many of whom fled after the economic crisis in 1998.
Some elements of the military offers -- including joint exercises and improvement of Russia's early-warning radar -- are not new, but the earlier reactions were mixed. For example, when Boris N. Yeltsin and the elder George Bush were presidents, in 1992, they considered joint antimissile exercises.
Mr. Clinton worked vigorously to strike a "grand bargain" with Russia in strategic nuclear affairs that envisioned a new security architecture that would have reduced nuclear warheads, possibly amended the ABM Treaty and deployed a limited missile defense.
The Clinton administration also offered to help Russia complete a large missile-tracking radar near Irkutsk, in Siberia, if Moscow agreed to renegotiate the ABM Treaty. And Russian and American officers conducted two joint missile-defense exercises -- in Moscow 1996 and in Colorado Springs in 1998 -- but they were little more than computer simulations. 
A more ambitious "command post exercise" was briefly scheduled at Fort Bliss, Tex., last year. But a Pentagon official said late last week that that exercise had been delayed until 2002 at the earliest. In the exercise, the Russians and Americans are to practice tracing enemy missiles and coordinating and firing antimissile devices. "Think of it as exercising their missile defense with ours, to see whether they could be made inter-operable," a senior administration official said. "Our systems could be interconnected. It makes a lot of sense." 
Mr. Bush, administration officials said, will use the June 16 meeting with Mr. Putin to get acquainted, and serious discussions are not expected to begin until the two leaders meet again the following month in Italy at the annual economic gathering of industrialized nations. By then the adminisration hopes to have a list of initiatives in hand. But one senior official warned that "the hardest thing to put on any list" would be joint research and development, "given their own proliferation practices.
"We wouldn't be confident that the technology would stop with the Russians," he added.
Mr. Bush hopes to play to Mr. Putin's political needs by arguing that Russia and the United States are equally vulnerable to small rogue states and terrorists. 
Among the threats that worry Russia are the proliferation of missiles and the threat of biological, chemical and eventually nuclear weapons along its southern border. But Russia itself has a vigorous conventional arms-export program to earn foreign currency. 
And a senior administration official conceded that before deep cooperation is possible, "we would have to have serious discussions with the Russians" about their behavior when it comes to proliferation.
The proposal to upgrade Russia's radars plays to the fact that early-warning systems are the vanguard and vanity of any military -- and Russia's are in disrepair. Earlier this month, for example, a fire at one relay station temporarily blinded four Russian satellites.
To the American side, the most attractive Russian system is the S-300 surface-to-air missile, also called the SA-10. It is designed to intercept and destroy fast-moving bombers, cruise missiles and some less-advanced short- and medium-range missiles. Analysts liken the S-300 to the American Patriot missile, which was used during the Persian Gulf war. 
But both the Patriot and the S-300 are of variable accuracy, and integrating the S-300 into a missile shield would do little to quiet critics who say the technology for a guaranteed shield is far away. 
Russia has also been trying to upgrade the S-300 to the S-400, which would have a range of 75 to 250 miles and could be guided by a Russian-designed radar. 
According to a report by the Federation of American Scientists, the ability of the S-400 is just within the limits defined by the ABM Treaty, which restricts the range of interceptor missiles fielded by both sides. If Mr. Bush can persuade Russia to scrap the treaty, those limits would be eliminated.
"The Russians have some very good technologies," said a senior Administration official. "There is no reason why our missile defense effort should not benefit from those, especially if we are going to do it cooperatively." 
The more difficult diplomatic challenge may be dealing with China. 
Already Chinese officials have viewed Mr. Bush's proposal for a missile shield as an effort to neutralize Beijing's comparatively small nuclear arsenal. They have been alarmed at suggestions that a mobile regional missile system, based on American ships, would be used to protect Taiwan. The Chinese have tried to join forces with Russia in arguing that such an American system would lead to an arms race.
The White House is clearly trying to win Russia over to its side, and how that struggle turns out could affect the balance of global military power for decades. So Mr. Bush is likely to cast any missile exercises with Russia as an effort to protect it and all of Europe against "rogue states," particularly Iran and Iraq. 
North Korea, the other nation whose unpredictability is used to justify Mr. Bush's plan, has missiles that could easily strike the Russian Far East. But Russia's longest border is with China, and Beijing would undoubtedly view any cooperation between Moscow and Washington as a grave threat. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; SHANKER, THOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) RUSSIA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2001 



767 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Japan's New Nationalism 

BYLINE:  By Herbert P. Bix; Herbert P. Bix is professor of history at Binghamton University and author of "Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan," which won a Pulitzer Prize this year.

DATELINE: MILLBORO, Va. 

 BODY:
Newly installed Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has restarted debate over altering Japan's constitution. The relationship between Japan's political elites and their 1946 constitution has long been vexed. The question now is why constitutional debate has resurfaced and what it may portend for Japan and the world outside.
 For years, Japanese conservatives have claimed that the "MacArthur" constitution of 1946 not only demeans Japan's armed forces, but also hampers the nation's ability to fulfill its United Nations obligations. Article 9 of the constitution forever renounces war as a right of the state "and the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes." 
 Japanese critics observe that in 2001 the circle of great powers is no more open to the militarily hobbled than it was in 1904, when Japan defeated Russia. Because of its constitution, Japan (they say) is out of step internationally and hopelessly out of "real" power. But to bring about change, a new constitution must be drafted, one that can gain the support of two-thirds of the members of both legislative houses. Then a national election must be held and popular consent registered.
Not very logically, the constitution is blamed for other, quite different woes. For more than a decade Japan has achieved virtually no economic growth. Unemployment is officially at 4.7 percent, an all-time Japanese postwar high, and slowly rising. Inequalities in the distribution of wealth have steadily widened. Vast amounts of tax income have gone into public works projects, while other tax billions have been used to prop up debt-ridden, essentially bankrupt financial institutions. The long recession drags on; so, too, do the corruption, deceit and public non-accountability that have long been key ingredients in the workings of Japan's political-industrial-financial system.
This spring, facing July elections for the House of Councilors -- the upper chamber of Japan's Parliament -- the heads of the country's conservative parties closed ranks behind Mr. Koizumi, a media-savvy, popular politician who seems privately nontraditional. Trained in economics in London, the 59-year-old prime minister is the third generation of a family of national-level politicians. He is a former cabinet minister, with an understanding of the basic health and welfare needs of Japan's rapidly aging society, and he projects a youthful persona.
Mr. Koizumi proclaims that he will restore the competitive power of Japanese industry and finance. He calls for several very non-traditional measures: the postal service must be privatized, the prime minister must be popularly elected, the public debt should be reduced and the economy freed of excessive bureaucratic restrictions.
But if Mr. Koizumi's economic views are those of a neo-liberal, or what Americans would call a free-market conservative, he appears quite traditionally nationalist in other areas. He is unambiguous in his passion for revision of the constitution and wants to abolish the war-renouncing Article 9 even though its pacifist ideals are now broadly rooted in Japanese society. Like other right-wing nationalists, he would have Japan assume military responsibility in world affairs proportional to its economic strength. And, by making the emperor the head of state (genshu) rather than, as in the 1946 Constitution, a "symbol" (shocho), he would enhance the throne as an integrating force in Japanese life.
Mr. Koizumi considers more than the constitution to be outdated. One of his first acts as prime minister was to sanction new history textbooks celebrating Japan's pre-1945 imperial past; another was to declare his intention to pay an official visit in August to Yasukuni Shrine, where the spirits of several World War II Class-A war criminals are enshrined -- something no prime minister has done since 1985. Once an important site for rituals centered on the emperor, Yasukuni symbolizes the nation's former fusion of politics and religion.
In many respects, particularly in economic matters, Mr. Koizumi continues the policies of his immediate Liberal Democratic Party predecessors, who broke from the party's well-established tradition (since the early 1960's) of state support for agriculture, strict regulation of small business, and relatively low consumer taxes. Further, he differs from earlier advocates of constitutional revision, professing a desire to widen rather than contract the framework of democratic freedoms.
Yet Mr. Koizumi also draws heavily on Japan's nationalist past. Younger Japanese are by no means interested in a more military national identity. Older people, who remember Hirohito with a mix of respect and hatred, are dying off. Their dislike of Hirohito is more for his military failures and post-surrender refusal to abdicate than for Japanese militarism as such. Therefore Mr. Koizumi's visit to Yasukuni Shrine seems to offer little clear political advantage, but is sure to reignite old debates, passions and memories.
Looking forward and backward at the same time, and not yet openly committed to any course, the somewhat mercurial prime minister is a political enigma. While strengthening his ties with the far-right nationalistic factions opposed to radical economic reform, he espouses just such reform. Using a rhetoric of peace, he fosters and promises deeper cooperation with the great powers. But the political footprints Mr. Koizumi has already laid down do not inspire confidence. As he bides time waiting for the July elections, he and his L.D.P.-dominated coalition government are inevitably moving Japan toward a period of heightened ideological conflict that can only make economic reform more difficult.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (MK Mabry) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); TRENDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); AGING (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); BIX, HERBERT P 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



768 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: A Fitting Energy Plan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Contrary to Robert Redford's suggestion, our insatiable demand for energy can no longer be restrained by tougher fuel economy standards ("Bush vs. the American Landscape," Op-Ed, May 23). Population growth and the desire for greater personal wealth are far too powerful to curb with the old conservation measures. 
 Only by shrinking our population and retrenching our expectations for better tomorrows can we avoid poisoning the environment. 
Few are willing to swallow those bitter pills, so the only course is to continue consuming irreplaceable natural resources and discharging wastes to the air, water and land. President Bush has read our national appetite, and he has given us the energy plan our hunger demands.

STEPHEN L. CASTNER
Grafton, Wis., May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%) ENERGY AND POWER; FUEL EFFICIENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: REDFORD, ROBERT; CASTNER, STEPHEN L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



769 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Newsletter Trains Muckraking Eye on Cancer World 

BYLINE:  By ALEXIS JETTER 

 BODY:
There's the war on cancer, and there's the war over cancer -- or what the cancer cognoscenti call "oncopolitics," the high-stakes competition over money, medicine and policy.
 And no one has a better time stirring the pot than Paul Goldberg, a writer, who with his wife, Kirsten Boyd Goldberg, produces The Cancer Letter, a newsletter based in Washington that keeps a muckraker's eye on cancer's power elite. 
 Mr. Goldberg, 41, a Russian emigre with a quirky sense of humor and a thirst for the jugular, has spent 10 years challenging phony cures, celebrity doctors and power-hungry bureaucrats. He has been called a Bolshevik, an irritant and a medical Matt Drudge. But everybody who's anybody in cancer reads his stories. 
"Within the cancer world, The Cancer Letter is both respected and feared," says Dr. Susan Love, a surgeon and author. "There's lots of money for research, but is it supporting the best research, or my buddy's research, or research in the district of some congressman? That's what Paul does: He shines a light where it needs to be shined."
Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition, a patient advocacy group, adds: "Paul is one of the few things in the world of cancer that's fun. He doesn't take himself, or any of us, too seriously."
But the newsletter's several thousand readers, who include the nation's leading cancer researchers, activists and policy makers, take it very seriously. The Cancer Letter, a weekly, gave early voice to the patient activist movement, helped force out an unpopular Clinton administration health official, exposed a society doctor whose cancer treatments may have cost lives and recently revealed -- much to the embarrassment of American Cancer Society officials -- that they had unwittingly hired two public relations firms with ties to the tobacco industry.
Even those who have felt the publication's sting give it credit for energizing the sometimes stodgy cancer community.
Mr. Goldberg is clearly enjoying the attention.
"Through the First Amendment, we're licensed to be kvetches, and we love that role," he says amiably, sitting in the four-story, dacha-style house in Washington that the Goldbergs share with their two young daughters, a Belgian shepherd and a museum-sized collection of Stalinist-Leninist propaganda art. "We're not worried about making friends or enemies."
Ms. Goldberg, the newsletter's publisher and editor in chief, adds: "Scientists fight about ideas and dollars, and they fight passionately. It wouldn't be good journalism to gloss over those fights."
Ms. Goldberg, 37, a former education writer, took over as publisher when her father, who founded the newsletter in 1973, retired 11 years ago. 
For most of its 28-year life, The Cancer Letter catered to a small though influential readership, providing tidbits about financing and medical advances. But the cancer world has changed drastically over the past two decades, and The Cancer Letter has changed with it. There's greater patient activism, increased competition for research dollars and heightened political awareness that cancer is the public's top health concern. As a result, the stakes are higher, the limelight is brighter and the sting of a Cancer Letter investigation is sharper.
Two years ago, the American Journalism Review dubbed the Goldbergs -- the newsletter's only full-time staff members -- "Small but Mighty Watchdogs" for exposing a loophole in federally approved clinical trials that allowed a controversial cancer drug to be used on thousands of patients without accurate information about its safety or effectiveness. That investigation won the Robert D. G. Lewis Award for Watchdog Journalism from the Washington chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists. No other newsletter had ever won the award.
The Goldbergs divide the territory: Kirsten covers the National Cancer Institute, and Paul covers everything else -- the advocacy groups, Congress and the Food and Drug Administration.
Readers pay a hefty $295 annual subscription price. And, for the most part, people who find themselves under the newsletter's scrutiny seem to welcome the attention.
"I'm disappointed when they don't cover something," says Dr. Richard Klausner, director of the National Cancer Institute, "because I worry that people won't learn about it."
But some critics say success has spoiled The Cancer Letter, and they say Mr. Goldberg, in particular, has overstepped the boundaries of ethical journalism. At issue are Mr. Goldberg's recent articles criticizing the American Cancer Society and its brainchild, the three-year-old National Dialogue on Cancer. The dialogue, whose co-chairman is former President George Bush, is a consortium of 160 public and private groups working on cancer prevention and treatment.
Dialogue leaders have expressed hopes that the coalition will help cancer organizations collaborate on outreach programs and speak in a more unified voice.
Sounds like fairly benign stuff. But Mr. Goldberg was suspicious. Citing numerous sources -- most of them named, some not -- he said that the Atlanta-based American Cancer Society was empire-building in Washington at public expense. The Cancer Society, Mr. Goldberg wrote, was acting unethically, perhaps even illegally, by using federal dollars to finance the dialogue, which Mr. Goldberg says has a restricted membership and meets behind closed doors.
The organization's ultimate goal, he asserted, was to reshape United States cancer policy to emphasize prevention and control at the expense of research.
With millions of federal and philanthropic dollars at stake, the American Cancer Society had no choice but to respond. Mr. Bush took a conciliatory approach, conceding that the National Dialogue on Cancer might need to be clearer about its objectives. Mr. Bush, who suffered from a heart rhythm abnormality in 1991, brandished a copy of what he called "that darn Cancer Letter" at a dialogue meeting last year. "It's not The Cancer Letter that got my heart fibrillating," he told the audience. "We need to correct the problems and move on."
But Dr. Harmon Eyre, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, denied Mr. Goldberg's accusations and said the organization's use of federal dollars was completely justified.
"The purpose of the dialogue is to accelerate progress toward the ultimate eradication of cancer," he said in a recent telephone interview. "It has nothing to do with elevating the American Cancer Society's presence in Washington, D.C."
And Dr. Eyre, a longtime Cancer Letter reader, took his own shot. "I'm troubled by the fact that Paul, unlike most investigative reporters, doesn't have an editor to report to," he said. "So he's free to report his own conclusions without documented sources."
Ms. Goldberg responds: "Paul does have an editor. That's me. The stories were factual, responsible and documented, and we stand by them." She pauses for a moment, her reserve battling with her candor. "Of course, if you walked in here when we're on deadline, editing each other," she concedes, "you'd think we were enemies." 
Has she ever felt like firing him? 
"Absolutely," she says evenly, smiling at her tall, gangly husband. "Once a week."
Don't reach for The Cancer Letter if you're looking for a light read. Kirsten Goldberg says she's committed to accuracy above all else. And brevity is not her husband's strong suit. He is, after all, a Russian writer, and the author of two thick history books, "The Final Act" and "The Thaw Generation: Coming of Age in the Post-Stalin Era," each about Soviet dissidents. He has also just completed a comically complicated, as-yet unpublished coming-of-age novel, "See What Happens in America."
Digesting most Cancer Letter articles requires a large mug of coffee and a medical dictionary. You have to be an insider to appreciate the recent cover story: "Rep. Bliley Challenges F.D.A. on Failure to Approve Oral Colon Cancer Drug UFT." But Mr. Goldberg says his readers have an insatiable appetite for details, and he's happy to satisfy them. 
"Kirsten has a nice way of describing my kind of story," he says, smiling rakishly. "She says it's like being attacked by a dirigible full of water: it's very unwieldy, it moves slowly, and when it reaches its target, it goes baroomp, baroomp, phoosh."
The Cancer Letter is very much an "Upstairs, Downstairs" operation with a postmodernist twist. Upstairs in the spacious kitchen, a Russian baby sitter, her hair wrapped in a babushka, coos softly in Russian to the Goldbergs' 2-year-old daughter, Sarah, near a 60's-era table-top jukebox. One flight above, past an assortment of Lenin sculptures and East European Hebraica, the Goldbergs' older daughter, 10-year-old Katie, practices on a violin.
Downstairs, Ms. Goldberg runs the business operation in one corner of the sprawling basement, while Paul types away at the other end, under a huge post-World War II era sign declaring, "Our Doctor is Available at All Times" in English, Polish, Yiddish and Russian. Neither Goldberg, by the way, is a doctor, but each is a quick study.
Mr. Goldberg draws some of his journalistic doggedness from his father, Boris, a former journalist, satirist and screenwriter in Moscow. 
The Goldbergs immigrated to Richmond, Va., in 1973, when Paul was 14. Boris Goldberg became a broadcaster for Voice of America, and Paul's late mother, Sonia, taught Russian at the National Security Agency. After graduating from Duke in 1981, Paul Goldberg landed a reporting job at a small newspaper in Reston, Va., where he met a fellow reporter, Kirsten Boyd, while working on a story.
In 1983, when Ms. Goldberg left to get an economics degree at University of California, Paul took a reporting job with The Wichita Eagle-Beacon. "I found myself not far from Dodge City riding a horse," he recalls. "And I asked myself: 'What's a nice Jewish boy from Moscow doing in a place like this?' I felt like I was in a scene from 'Blazing Saddles.' "
Soon afterward, he and Ms. Goldberg moved back to Washington and married. They've been writing and matching wits ever since. 
Friends credit Kirsten Goldberg with keeping her husband's journalistic forays on a tight leash. "If you've been to Paul's house, and you've seen that his home is a museum to Russian kitsch and communism, then you know he is just steeped in conspiracy," says Fran Visco. "Kirsten keeps him sane, asks him the reality questions and grounds him."
But Mr. Goldberg insists that his standards are rigorous. It is investigation by peer review: he contacts the relevant medical experts, hands them the newest scientific controversy and lets them go at it.
"I like the Kinky Friedman approach to detective work," Mr. Goldberg says, referring to the mystery writer and musician. "He convenes meetings of his friends, whom he refers to as 'Village Irregulars,' and they perform inquiry by committee. It's fun, and it's effective."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul and Kirsten Goldberg, shown with their dog, Isaac, publish The Cancer Letter from a basement office in their home in Washington. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); WRITERS (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); BREAST CANCER (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); PUBLISHING (66%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); NEWS REPORTING (60%); DOGS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) CANCER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RESEARCH; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BREAST CANCER COALITION (55%) CANCER LETTER (NEWSLETTER) 

PERSON: JETTER, ALEXIS; GOLDBERG, PAUL; GOLDBERG, KIRSTEN BOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



770 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD; 
Victor Hugo Can't Rest in Peace, As a Sequel Makes Trouble

BYLINE:  By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 28 

 BODY:
Over the years Victor Hugo's masterpiece "Les Miserables" has been variously repackaged as a hit musical, several plays, a score of movies, at least three television mini-series and even a comic strip book, all without a squeak of protest from the 19th-century writer's descendants. Now, however, a French-language sequel to the novel has Hugo's great-great grandchildren up in arms, and they even want the book banned.
 In many countries including the United States, they would have no case since the copyright to "Les Miserables" expired a half-century ago. But French law protects artists' "moral right" over their creative works in perpetuity. And it is under this law that Hugo's heirs are planning to attack Francois Ceresa's "Cosette or the Time of Illusions," published this month by Editions Plon. A Paris court is to hear their arguments on June 27. 
 "We do not consider this a sequel, but a rewriting of 'Les Miserables,' " said Pierre Hugo, 53, a jeweler in Aix-en-Provence who is one of Victor Hugo's nine great-grandchildren alive today. "It's not a sequel when you resurrect characters. Just because the book is in the public domain, it doesn't mean you can do what you like with it."
In "Cosette" the villainous Javert, an apparent suicide by drowning in the last pages of "Les Miserables," reappears as a virtuous man who has found God, while Thenardier, young Cosette's nemesis, returns from the United States to haunt her anew. Meanwhile, like Jean Valjean, the hero of "Les Miserables," Cosette's husband, Marius, is unjustly imprisoned, thus setting the stage for "Marius or the Fugitive," the second volume of the sequel, due in September. Mr. Ceresa, a journalist who has written several historical novels, says he has done no wrong. "I copied nothing," he said. "I can be accused of the crime of lese-majeste, but I consider this to be a homage to Hugo. The characters retain the spirit of Hugo, but they change. It's a new story that I have invented from A to Z."
For the Hugo family, however, coming just months before the 200th anniversary of Victor Hugo's birth, "Cosette" is vulgar commercial exploitation of "an undeniable treasure of universal cultural heritage." In a statement published in the Paris daily Liberation, five of Pierre Hugo's cousins and their mother said that books like "Cosette" should be banned in the name of defending French culture. They also called on the government to express "moral and symbolic" condemnation of the sequel.
Arguing that they want no part of the "dirty money" being generated by the sequel, they have not so far joined Pierre Hugo's lawsuit. Instead, Mr. Hugo has been supported by the Society of People of Letters, a once-prestigious association that was founded by Victor Hugo and headed by Balzac but is now largely unknown. "The principle of moral right must be reaffirmed," Georges-Olivier Chateaureynaud, the society's president, said.
Pierre Hugo plans to go further. His lawyer, Emmanuel Pierrat, said he would demand the seizure of unsold copies of "Cosette" -- its first print run was an optimistic 65,000 -- and the banning of "Marius." He also intends to seek the equivalent of $600,000 in damages, to be donated to charities for children. Finally, he said, if the court upholds Victor Hugo's "moral right" but does not order "Cosette" seized, he wants the ruling to be published in local newspapers and on the cover of the book.
Mr. Pierrat said French law was unequivocal in its defense of the moral right of artists. "In this case, Victor Hugo himself said he wanted no sequel or deformation of his characters," the lawyer explained. "A moral right protects the spirit as well as the integrity of a work of art. For example, Anjelica Huston was able to assert the moral right of her late father, John Huston, by preventing colorized versions of his black-and-white movies from being shown in France."
Of course if there are French legal precedents supporting Pierre Hugo's case, there are many more examples in the history of literature of writers' reworking classical stories and recasting universal characters, from Antigone to Ulysses, from Don Juan to Faust. "One cannot imagine Ovid's family suing Aesop's family, which in turn was not outraged by La Fontaine," said Antoine Audouard, a novelist whose recent "Adieu, Mon Unique," or "Goodbye, My Only One," itself reworks the story of Abelard and Heloise. "Pillage is one of the instruments of the fine arts."
It is a risky form of flattery, however, if it runs up against a copyright, which lasts for 70 years after a writer's death in both France and the United States. Last month a United States District Court blocked publication of Alice Randall's parody, "The Wind Done Gone," as "unabated piracy" of Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind." On Friday a Court of Appeals overturned tht ruling, although the Mitchell estate plans a further appeal.
France being France, the public debate over "Cosette" embraces more than literature. For some writers and intellectuals, the sequel is another alarming sign of France's gradual surrender to the globalized economy, one in which books are marketed like consumer products. Some commentators expressed shock that Editions Plon should budget $200,000 for publicizing the book. "Instead of spending that on the sequel, they should have reissued 'Les Miserables,' " complained Max Gallo, a writer and onetime government spokesman who is just completing a biography of Victor Hugo.
Thus, no less than in French cinema and theater, where providers of intellectual fare feel besieged by the entertainment demands of the mass market, the French publishing world seems increasingly divided between literary and commercial publishing. And the arrows are flying. "What will editors come up with next?" Pierre Assouline, a well-known French writer, asked. "The sequel to Proust's 'In Search of Lost Time'? Or to Celine's 'Journey to the End of the Night'? "
Well, perhaps yes, if the Paris court fails to uphold Victor Hugo's moral right over "Les Miserables." On the other hand, does it matter? Probably only in the unlikely event that the sequels are as good as the originals. "It is a question of respect," Pierre Hugo said. "We didn't object to 'Les Miz' or 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' or the mini-series because they were respectful. I wasn't even opposed to the comic book because it could interest kids in reading the real book. But this sequel is scandalous."
And yet, it was pointed out, the Hugo descendants did not object when "Cosette: The Sequel to 'Les Miserables' " by Laura Kalpakian was published in the United States by HarperCollins in 1995. "To be honest," Mr. Hugo said, "I only learned about it three weeks ago. Apparently it disappeared without a trace." Which of course might have happened to "Cosette or the Time of Illusions" if the Hugo cousins had not made it a cause celebre. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cover of "Cosette or the Time of Illusions" by Francois Ceresa, a sequel to Hugo's "Miserables" that is causing legal turmoil. (Plon)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); HISTORY (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); SUICIDE (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; COPYRIGHTS 

PERSON: HUGO, VICTOR (1802-1885); RIDING, ALAN; CERESA, FRANCOIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%) FRANCE

TITLE: COSETTE OR THE TIME OF ILLUSIONS (BOOK); LES MISERABLES (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



771 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: They're a Puzzle, but They Work 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
Fifteen years after their discovery, high-temperature superconductors have not come close to the most grandiose projections for their use, like high-speed trains levitated by superconducting magnets.
 But the materials, which are able to carry electricity with virtually no resistance at relatively warm temperatures, have found useful niches in the real world. 
 This month, workers pulled out nine cables from underground conduits at a Detroit power substation so that they could be replaced by the first high-temperature superconductor cables in a working power grid. The three new cables contain only 250 pounds of superconductor, yet they will be able to carry just as much current as the 18,000 pounds of copper in the nine cables they replace. Swapping copper cables for superconducting ones within existing conduits could allow utilities to triple their power capacity without disruptive digging. 
High-temperature superconductors are already used to improve signal reception in cell phone towers and for sensitive magnetic probes in scientific equipment. Efficient electric motors may be next.
Engineers have developed these uses even while physicists remain unable to explain why high-temperature superconductors are superconductors at all.
"We don't understand the physics, the mechanism," said Dr. Greg Yurek, chief executive of American Superconductor Corporation of Westborough, Mass., one of the companies involved in the Detroit project. "Yet it works. It's there."
A Dutch physicist, Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, discovered superconductivity in 1911 when he cooled mercury to minus-452 degrees Fahrenheit, about 7.5 degrees above absolute zero, and all resistance to the flow of electricity vanished. 
But the underlying physics of low-temperature superconductors remained a mystery until physicists at the University of Illinois, Dr. John Bardeen, Dr. Leon N. Cooper and Dr. John R. Schrieffer, worked out a theory, now known as B.C.S. theory after the initials of the three men's last names, in the mid-1950's.
Usually, electricity travels through metal as a stream of electrons. As they rattle against the lattice of the metal atoms, the electrons lose some of their energy, and the vibration spreads and dissipates as heat.
The B.C.S. theory says that in a sufficiently chilled superconductor, the negatively charged electrons, which normally repel each other, form an indirect kind of attraction. A negatively charged electron draws surrounding positively charged metal ions toward it, generating a vibration that travels through the metal lattice. This clump of positively charged ions attracts a second electron, which then receives a kick of momentum from the vibrating lattice. The resulting pairs of electrons, called Cooper pairs, end up traveling through the metal without resistance.
But for decades, no one found any superconductors that worked above minus-418 degrees, or 42 degrees above absolute zero. Many theorists suggested that none would ever be found, that higher temperatures inevitably broke apart the Cooper pairs.
Then, in 1986, two I.B.M. scientists in Zurich, Dr. George Bednorz and Dr. K. Alex Muller, discovered a new class of superconductors made out of exotic ceramics. Though the materials were very poor conductors at room temperature, Dr. Bednorz and Dr. Muller discovered they were superconducting at temperatures up to 63 degrees above absolute zero. Within a few months, other scientists created variations that pushed the superconducting temperature upward to 138 degrees above absolute zero.
That is still a very low temperature, but it is one that can be achieved using liquid nitrogen instead of more expensive liquid helium.
With each advance, scientists wondered whether they were about to find a material that would superconduct at room temperature, but the upward trek of superconducting temperatures stalled about a decade ago at about 220 degrees above absolute zero, or minus-240 degrees Fahrenheit
These high temperature superconductors do not conform to the B.C.S. theory, and, to their frustration, theorists have yet to devise an alternative.
Dr. Philip W. Anderson, an emeritus professor of physics at Princeton, thought he had it figured out when he returned from a 1987 conference on the problem in India. "I thought, 'Now I just have to write this up,' " he said. "Boy, was I wrong."
Most theorists believe that Cooper pairs still form in high-temperature superconductors, but magnetic interactions replace the vibrations of B.C.S. theory. In this view, electrons can be thought of as bar magnets lined up next to one another, not touching. If the magnet at one end is rocked back and forth, its magnetic field will induce the neighboring magnet to rock, too, and a wave of rocking motion will travel from one magnet to the next. 
Dr. Patrick Lee, a professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, calls this "a reasonable qualitative idea." But, he said: "To make a real theory to convince people demands a little more. That's where we're stuck."
The materials are complex -- planes of copper atoms separated by oxygen atoms and rare earth elements like ytrium, bismuth, barium and lanthium -- and theorists must decide which interactions are important and which can be ignored.
Dr. Anderson bases his theories on the same simple model that he started working with in 1987. "I then went off the rails and made a couple of fundamental blunders and didn't wake up until 10 years later," Dr. Anderson said. Now he says it may take another 10 years to work out the details, but he thinks he is on the right track.
But that is his opinion. Dr. David Pines, a staff scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, is equally sure the Anderson approach "would never tell you anything."
Instead, Dr. Pines and his collaborators have devised a more complicated model based on experimental observations. "And it works," he said. "We've gotten to the essence of what's working physically."
Others offer more unorthodox theories that cannot yet be ruled out.
"It speaks about how complicated it is," said Dr. Paul Grant, a science fellow at the Electric Power Research Institute. "The theorists working on it are the smartest ones on earth, and they've been working on it for 15 years. They still haven't come to a consensus that everyone is happy with."
Engineering obstacles also dimmed the early optimism. Current does not flow evenly in all directions in high temperature conductors, as it does in simple metallic compounds, making them unsuitable for some applications.
High-temperature superconductors have found use in cellular telephone towers as electronic filters to separate radio signals of individual phone calls.
Because of electrical resistance, conventional filters eat away part of the signal, and the sharper the filter, the more of the signal it eats away. 
"As a result, practical filters are not as selective as you'd like them to be," said Dr. Randy Simon, vice president of technology at Conductus Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., one of the companies that produces the superconducting filters. "Superconductors get you out of that trade-off entirely."
The superconducting filters extend the distance at which a tower can pick up a cell phone signal and increase the number of calls that can be handled simultaneously.
Filters manufactured by Conductus and a competing company, Superconductor Technologies Inc. of Santa Barbara, Calif., are in use in more than 700 towers around the world.
Officials at American Superconductor forecast that a market for its superconducting wire, to be used for cables and electric motors, will open up over the next few years.
The company now manufactures about 300 miles of superconducting wire a year. When a new factory in Devens, Mass., starts production next year, it will make 6,000 miles of wire annually. Coils of the wire will be used in a prototype of a 5,000-horsepower ship propulsion electric motor that American Superconductor is building for the Navy this summer. With the higher current capacity of superconductors, the size and weight of the motors can be shrunk by half or more.
Pirelli Cables and Systems of Milan assembled the American Superconductor wires to the power cables used in the Detroit Edison project. 
The 4-inch-wide power cables will snake 400 feet through underground conduits, including a couple of 90-degree bends, from a transformer to power distribution equipment inside the substation building.
The $13.9 million project, financed in part by the Department of Energy, will be a significant test of the technologies that have been developed to transform high temperature superconductors, which are by nature brittle and stiff, into flexible wires. Liquid nitrogen will run through the center of the cables to keep them chilled at minus-337 degrees. 
The power lines will undergo a year of testing before going into service, supplying electricity to 14,000 customers.
The idea of superconducting power lines goes back decades, but until recent advances, has been too costly to be practical.
In 1967, Dr. Richard L. Garwin and Dr. Juri Matisoo, researchers at I.B.M.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., sketched out a design for a superconducting power transmission line. In the late 1970's, a superconducting cable was tested in a power grid in Austria, and in the 1980's, Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island built two 430-foot superconducting transmission cables made of niobium-tin, a low-temperature superconductor, that could carry enough electricity to power a large city. But they lost significant amounts of energy when conveying alternating current, or AC.
The alternating currents jostle magnetic fields that penetrate through the superconductors, and the jostled magnetic fields then bump into atoms. That dissipates energy just as electrons bumping into atoms in ordinary metals produce electrical resistance. 
"An awful lot was learned about AC losses," said Dr. Grant of the Electric Power Research Institute. "The Brookhaven project was a technical success but an economic disaster."
With high-temperature superconductors, the cooling costs are greatly reduced, but because of the AC losses, the superconducting cables in the Detroit Edison project will not save any energy compared with the old copper cables.
Superconducting cables cost several times as much as copper ones, but because they carry much more current, they could still find use in urban areas where digging up streets to put in new conduits would be costly. Detroit Edison is not the only utility interested in the technology. "The planners are beginning to look around and think about where they may have similar situations," Dr. Grant said.
The Bush administration's energy policy recommends expanding research in superconducting power lines.
To reap the full benefits of superconductivity in long-distance transmission lines, Dr. Grant proposes that they carry direct current, where electricity flows constantly in one direction, instead of alternating current. That eliminates the AC losses, and the current can flow over long distances virtually without any energy loss.
"There's a window of opportunity coming for renewing America's power infrastructures," Dr. Grant said. "If we're not ready for it, we're going to miss the boat. I think it's going to be a race whether we have this technology cheap enough to capture a lot of this opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A useful mystery: clockwise from left, spools of superconducting wire like that used in Detroit Edison's cables; a superconducting filter, used in cell telephone towers to separate signals; and a motor that uses superconducting magnetic coils, cutting its size in half. (Larry Masur/American Superconductor)(pg. F2); Detroit Edison is replacing some of its electrical lines with high-temperature superconductor cables. Nathan Kelley, above, feeds a test cable through an existing passage at one of the company's substations. (Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. F1) Chart: "Electrical Wizardry"Cables made of superconducting materials transmit electricity with no loss to resistance. They can carry much more current than traditional copper cables. Superconductors discovered so far must be kept very cold. Liquid nitrogen flows through the inner core of this cable, chilling it to minus-337 degrees Fahrenheit. The current is carried by four layers of flat superconducting wire. Between the two corrugated metal sheaths is insulation to help keep the cable cold. Outside that is the electrical insulation.(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERCONDUCTORS (97%); PHYSICS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TRAINS (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (75%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUPERCONDUCTORS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP (67%)

TICKER: AMSC (NASDAQ) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (67%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (67%)

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



772 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 533 words

PERSON: Malcom Purcell McLean 

HEADLINE: M. P. McLean, 87, Container Shipping Pioneer 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Malcom Purcell McLean, an entrepreneur who started as a truck driver and reinvented worldwide shipping 45 years ago when he hefted big loaded trailers into freighter holds, died Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 87.
 The cause was heart failure, said John D. McCown, chairman of Trailer Bridge, a container shipping company based in Jacksonville, Fla. Mr. McLean was its founder and majority shareholder. 
 A farmer's son born in Maxton, N.C., the man dubbed the Father of Containerization began to haul empty tobacco barrels in an old trailer when he was in his teens. Three years out of high school, in 1934, he and two of his six siblings opened the McLean Trucking Company.
The Depression was still holding sway, but the three managed over two decades to build the company into one of the country's biggest trucking concerns. It also was among the first to use diesel trucks.
Many years later, Mr. McLean said the idea for shipping large cargo boxes came to him one day in 1937 in Hoboken, N.J., as he watched longshoremen loading and unloading goods. It was part of a centuries-old process of manhandling wares again and again from factory to their eventual destination anywhere in the world.
It dawned on him that sorting and packing goods into containers for shipment would make the process faster, safer and cheaper. He finally put the idea to work in 1955 when he sold his share of McLean Trucking and bought the Pan Atlantic Steamship Company of Mobile, Ala.
In April 1956, a converted World War II tanker named Ideal X sailed from Port Newark with 58 containers on specially rigged decks. Within years, Mr. McLean changed the company name to Sea-Land as the concept caught on among competitors.
Mr. McLean charted the world's first container routes, as he expanded from coastal transport to Puerto Rico and the Atlantic and Pacific trade. By the time he sold his interest to R. J. Reynolds in 1969, Sea-Land was the largest container carrier in the business.
He was active in real estate but returned to sea in 1978 when he took over the moribund United States Lines and turned it into a rival of Sea-Land. That venture faltered, however, when United States Lines acquired a dozen huge vessels dubbed Econships and miscalculated their profitability.
Able to transport 2,000 40-foot containers, they were the largest vessels afloat. But the behemoths suffered from underuse and sank United States Lines.
In 1992, at 78, Mr. McLean set sail once more by founding Trailer Bridge, intended to serve a route between Puerto Rico and the mainland. Its ships are built to carry the largest vans used on American highways from port to port.
Mr. McLean is survived by his second wife, Irena Serafin McLean; a son, Malcom Jr. of Fort Collins, Colo.; two daughters, Nancy Parker of Alexandria, Va., and Patricia Mendenhall of Manhattan; four siblings, Clara McLean, Mary McFadyen, Margaret Newberry and John L. McLean, all of North Carolina; 11 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, Margaret Sikes McLean, died in 1992 after more than 50 years of marriage.
President Ronald Reagan celebrated Mr. McLean in 1984 for his vision and "spirit of determined optimism."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malcom P. McLean (Associated Press, 1968) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (89%); TRUCKING (89%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (73%); MARINE TANKERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); TRAILER BRIDGE INC (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (58%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (58%)

MCLEAN, MALCOLM PURCELL; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (76%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); MOBILE, AL, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



773 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 844 words

PERSON: Michael P. Forbes 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Parties Switched and Friends Lost, but No Regrets

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER 

 BODY:
WHEN I heard the news, I let out a little cheer," Michael P. Forbes, who calls himself an "unemployed congressman," said the other day. "I felt vindicated."
 Mr. Forbes was referring to last week's defection of Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont from the Republican Party, which will change the balance of power in the Senate, and of his own decision in July 1999, while serving his third term in Congress, to switch from the Republicans to the Democrats. 
 The change rendered Mr. Forbes despised -- Public Enemy No. 1 -- by his former colleagues and his Suffolk County district on the eastern tip of Long Island, a vengeful battleground into which they poured money, operatives and vitriol. The race last summer was, for a time, the center of Republican political passions. But Mr. Forbes lost the Democratic primary by 35 votes, to a 71-year-old pro bono environmental lawyer who worked out of her own kitchen. He failed to secure spots he sought on the Right to Life, Conservative and Independence Party lines, all pretty much Republican subsidiaries. In the end, the seat was easily won by the Republican challenger Felix J. Grucci Jr., scion of a firecracker fortune, who was the Brookhaven town supervisor.
The bitterness, Mr. Forbes said, lingers on.
"The best man at my wedding was a guy named Al D'Amato," he said of the former senator, on whose staff he worked for five years. "I led the charge to get the Central Islip courthouse named after him. Now, because I don't have an R after my name, we haven't talked since July 1999. He won't return my phone calls."
Mr. Forbes, 49, described himself as "laboring in the Republican vineyards" since the age of 16. Indeed, his resume is about as Republican as you can get -- Northeastern Republican, at any rate. He worked hard for the election of the earlier President Bush, and Mr. Forbes's wife, Barbara, was a political aide in that White House.
All this changed on a summer day two years ago when he held a news conference outside his home in Quogue unleashing a blistering denunciation of his former party as "angry, narrow-minded, intolerant, uncaring, incapable of governing at all, much less from the center."
Bolting his lifetime "team," he recalled, came only after a long period of "tremendous personal turmoil and angst," in which he finally concluded that "there was no tolerance for moderation" in the national Republican Party. "It became increasingly difficult to be an advocate for New York," he said. "You were constantly battling with folks who didn't share that vision, and there was finally the unescapable conclusion that moderates are shut out of the party."
IT was, he said, a painful decision. His grandfather had been the owner of The News-Review weekly in Riverhead, which Mr. Forbes described as the largest Republican newspaper in the state, and his father, originally an actor, became publisher. When 18-year-olds got the vote in 1970, Mr. Forbes registered as a Republican. Even while studying political science at the State University of New York at Albany, he began his political career working for Perry Duryea of Montauk, then the speaker of the Assembly, and other Republicans in the Legislature. He worked for Mr. D'Amato, ran a bunch of Republican campaigns and finally ran successfully for Congress himself in 1994.
"I had no clue to the depth of the passion, the venom from people I revered, called friends," he said of the Republican reaction to his defection. "They didn't just walk away, they signed up for the mission of my destruction. They began a vicious smear campaign against me, distorted my record, fabricated idiosyncrasies about my style, my personal grooming. (It should be stipulated that he was quite neatly dressed in a dark blue pinstripe suit, white shirt and very conservative blue striped tie. His tassel loafers, however, were brown.)
"I don't want to leave the impression I have any regrets," he said. "I am very much at peace. I would do it all over again."
But sometimes, when Mr. Forbes goes to church, there are mutterings of "Benedict Arnold." His wife has been taunted in the supermarket, his children at school. When they marched in the St. Patrick's Day parade in Montauk, his old idol, Mr. Duryea, turned his back on them in the reviewing stand. And, many of their longtime friends no longer speak to them.
"These are people we've known for 30 years; they've been to christenings, birthdays," said Mr. Forbes, who is starting a public relations business. "Our whole world was Republicans. Our friends were Republicans because that's what we did. Now they don't want to speak to us because we're not Republicans."
While Mr. Jeffords's political place seems secure in ruggedly independent Vermont, Mr. Forbes suggests that the senator might find things less comfortable in Washington.
"Can you imagine the animus of the committee chairmen who have lost their posts when they see him in the hall?" the unemployed congressman said. "He's going to have some rocky days ahead. It will be an eye-opener for him, who his friends really are and aren't." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: MICHAEL P. FORBES (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%) ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

GEORGE W BUSH (51%) KIFNER, JOHN; FORBES, MICHAEL P; JEFFORDS, JAMES M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES; SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



774 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2033 words

HEADLINE: Unresolved Clash of Cultures; 
At Knight Ridder, Good Journalism vs. the Bottom Line

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
When the roughly 60 journalists at The Columbus Ledger-Enquirer gathered for a staff meeting last Wednesday with their editor, Mike Burbach, they were full of questions. Mr. Burbach had recently returned from a daylong discussion with his bosses at Knight Ridder's corporate headquarters. The subject: how to practice journalism in an economic Maelstrom.
 Now back at his newsroom in Georgia, Mr. Burbach was continuing that discussion with his reporters who wanted to know the local and long-term impact of Knight Ridder's companywide cutbacks. While reporters were concerned about how the company would go from 22,000 to 20,000 employees, their questions cut deeper than that. 
 "It doesn't seem like the commitment is there to allow us to do our jobs," Jim Houston, a long-time reporter at The Ledger-Enquirer, complained in a later interview. 
The doubts reflected a fundamental and still unresolved clash of corporate cultures that has haunted Knight Ridder, based in San Jose, Calif., since two very different companies merged nearly 27 years ago.
Knight Ridder's chief executive, Tony Ridder, as he is known throughout the industry, is the heir, the victim and the stubborn steward of that companywide state of tension. He is constantly pressed to choose between the mission of quality journalism -- the historic heart of Knight Newspapers -- and the relentless pressures of financial performance, which was the priority of Ridder Publications.
Mr. Ridder, a former hockey player, a talented golfer and a fierce competitor, says he believes in both. And by such measures as Pulitzer Prizes won and profit margins, he has succeeded in maintaining high standards. But in trying to satisfy each camp, Mr. Ridder is coming up short in the eyes of both Wall Street and his publishing colleagues.
According to Larry Jinks, a former top editor at Knight Ridder newspapers who also served as a senior vice president, the source of Mr. Ridder's quandary is his company's proud history. 
"Like it or not, he has inherited the mantle of chief executive of a company known most favorably for its editorial values," Mr. Jinks said.
But at the same time, he added, Mr. Ridder "is convinced, encouraged by analysts, that he has got to improve profit margins, come hell or high water. That is very hard to do. If he does that using the techniques he feels he has to use, he's Darth Ridder to some people."
In the last two months, as classified advertising dropped 40 to 50 percent in some markets and newsprint prices rose 20 percent over last year's levels, Mr. Ridder became even more determined about cost-cutting. Knight Ridder has ordered 10 percent across-the-board job reductions from just about all of the 32 company newspapers.
And those cuts, Mr. Ridder told analysts at a recent conference in New York, will be permanent. In the past, Knight Ridder reduced its staff in bad times, but "then started adding people back in again," Mr. Ridder said. "We don't plan to do that this time. We're going to operate with a lower number of people."
Yet for all his efforts to satisfy Wall Street's demands, Knight Ridder's stock has trailed most of its peers. Since Mr. Ridder took over as chief executive six years ago, total return to investors has averaged 13.4 percent annually, compared with the Gannett Company's 17.4 percent, the Tribune Company's 21.6 percent and 24.8 percent for The New York Times Company. 
Part of the reason is that steep circulation declines in Detroit, site of a bitter strike at The Free Press; in Miami, where The Herald faces profound linguistic and demographic changes among its audience; and in Philadelphia pulled the total circulation of its 10 largest newspapers down 17.8 percent from 1990 to 2000, compared with a 10 percent decline in the industry over all.
Last year, Knight Ridder's operating profit margin of 20.8 percent ranked second, behind Gannett, at 28.6 percent, and the Tribune Company, at 20.7 percent, and ahead of the Times Company's 18.3 percent, according to an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown.
But Knight Ridder's biggest problem has been its narrow profile. "The issue on Knight Ridder from a stock standpoint is that it is a pure-play newspaper company suffering from the dual impact of higher prices and a declining ad environment," said Peter P. Appert, the Deutsche Banc analyst. "The market likes diversified companies much more than pure-play companies." 
He bolsters his argument with a statistic that measures a company's market value compared with its estimated 2001 earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation. Knight Ridder's multiple, he figures, is a low 7.2, compared with 9.9 for the Times Company, which owns some television; 11.7 for the Tribune Company, which owns part of the WB network; and multiple-media giants like Viacom, at 17.5, and AOL Time Warner, 19.5.
"Clearly, we get penalized," Mr. Ridder said, "because we are not as diversified as other companies."
But even as Wall Street continues to give Knight Ridder only lukewarm support, Mr. Ridder confronts industry criticism that pictures him as willing to sell the company's soul -- its ability to do great journalism -- in a bid to elevate its stock price and inoculate itself against a takeover.
In the 15 years since he left the job of publisher of The San Jose Mercury News and became the first executive from the Ridder side with direct control of all the company's newspapers, Mr. Ridder has faced defectors and doubters about whether he is true to the journalistic creed. The most resounding defection came just this March, when Jay T. Harris, at the time publisher of The Mercury News, quit his post, saying the pressure for increased profits in a declining economy was endangering the newspaper's future quality. 
Mr. Harris's widely circulated parting letter to Mr. Ridder was tame compared with that of Mark Schlueb, one of 10 reporters laid off at The Akron Beacon Journal. "Witless dolt" was among the printable epithets.
In an article this month in Editor & Publisher, the industry magazine, Mr. Ridder responded that Knight Ridder "holds sacred both its journalistic mission and its obligations to all stakeholders."
This month, Knight Ridder's vice president for news, Jerry Ceppos, and The Mercury News's executive editor, David Yarnold, were the hosts of the session with Mr. Burbach from Columbus, editors from Akron, Miami and Kansas City and Mr. Ridder.
"The editors wanted to say that we support Knight Ridder and we wanted to be partners in the process," Mr. Yarnold said. "We wanted to make sure our views were heard and the impact of budgets on news operations was clear."
His language was more neutral than that of Knight Ridder alumni like James M. Naughton, a former top editor at The Inquirer, who said that news values should trump maximizing profits.
The essence of the Knight Ridder journalistic faith was part of the 1974 annual report -- the first of the combined company -- by Lee Hills, a Pulitzer Prize winner and then the chief executive. "Editorial excellence is not a goal to be sought and one day acquired and then retired to the trophy case," he wrote. "It is instead an ambition which must be pursued each day, never ending, never totally achieved. That striving, that ambition is an essential part of our newspapers, a cornerstone of what we have been, what we are, and what we will be."
When the deal putting the two chains together went through -- Knight acquired Ridder and assumed 10 of the 15 seats on the new board -- it seemed as if the Knight approach would prevail. John S. Knight was editorial chairman; he, too, had won a Pulitzer Prize. Alvah H. Chapman Jr., a Knight executive from Columbus, was president. Bernard H. Ridder Jr., Tony's father, was vice chairman of the board, where he was joined by other family members.
"There was noticeable tension between Jack Knight and the Ridders," said Eugene L. Roberts, editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer from 1972 to 1990, when its journalism was Knight Ridder's gold standard. "Jack made a big point of saying within the company -- I don't know whether he did it in speeches or anything but I personally heard him say it -- that it wasn't a merger, it was an acquisition.
"He would have been shocked to know it was an acquisition," Mr. Roberts added, "but an acquisition of Knight by Ridder." Mr. Roberts, who led The Inquirer to 18 Pulitzer Prizes, later was a managing editor of The New York Times.
A dozen years after the two companies combined, its journalism was the talk of the industry; Knight Ridder won seven Pulitzer prizes in 1986, the year that Mr. Chapman promoted Tony Ridder to corporate headquarters. Marie Ridder, Walter Ridder's widow, believes that "Tony made it in spite of being a Ridder."
Mr. Chapman, who had fired Mr. Ridder's uncle, Joseph, and installed Mr. Ridder as publisher of The Mercury News in 1977, remains high on his protege. "His circulation went up, his paper was a better paper, he welcomed all suggestions we made editorially, he was a good leader," Mr. Chapman said last week. The San Jose success led to Mr. Ridder's rise to the newly created presidency of the newspaper division.
He quickly asserted himself. Chris Harte, a former Knight Ridder publisher who was Mr. Ridder's assistant, said that "Tony was not deferential to anyone."
As the hierarchy changed, editors, once considered first among equals, became subordinate to publishers and their access to the top levels of the company began to diminish. It was a system that Mr. Chapman inaugurated, Mr. Ridder said; he just carried it out. Another system inaugurated before Mr. Ridder arrived was monthly budgeting. He embraced that as well.
Yet as an up-and-coming executive and later as the top man, Mr. Ridder often sounds an oddly detached note, rejecting any claim of direct involvement in many events of his career: the ousting of his uncle in San Jose, the diminution of editors' corporate voices, the argument over profits at The Herald that led to the departure of David Lawrence, the publisher, and Mr. Harris's resignation from The Mercury News.
What he takes credit for -- and should, Mr. Appert said -- is forcing fiscal discipline on a company that had been lackadaisical about it.
Prominent editors did not like his approach. 
Mr. Naughton said that Mr. Ridder's past and present difficulties "stem largely from the fastness with which he clings to his positions, unyieldingly."
In 1988, Mr. Ridder was named president of the company, under James K. Batten, a well-liked former editor of The Charlotte Observer, who became chief executive. This fit the corporate pattern of having a businessman succeed a journalist and vice versa.
With Mr. Batten dying from brain cancer in 1995, Mr. Ridder took the chief executive's title. He won quick appreciation from Wall Street for abandoning some of Mr. Batten's less-promising investments, like Business Information Services, a financial news and data business. For the first two years of his tenure, the stock price climbed steadily, dipping slightly in 1997 after the announcement of the $1.65 billion acquisition of Capital Cities' newspapers. For growth, he looked to his expanding Internet operations.
All the while, the barons from the Knight side were disappearing; the board, once as large as 17, now consists of nine people.
Mr. Ridder is the only Ridder family member and the only Knight Ridder executive left. He said that the smaller the board, the greater each member's impact.
With Mr. Ridder now 60, the question of succession is in the air. Mr. Ridder said last week that Steven B. Rossi, the new newspaper president, is his most likely successor. Mr. Rosssi would be the first executive from the business side to directly succeed another businessman since the merger. 
"I don't think it's a drawback," Mr. Rossi said. "The important thing is that they have good solid talent on the news side and that we delegate that responsibility to them."
What does all this mean to Mr. Houston, the reporter from Columbus? "I would still rather work for Knight Ridder than most of the other newspaper organizations that I know about," he said. "I just wish it didn't have this nagging question about commitment to the journalism side."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Highs and lows at Knight Ridder papers last month. Above, at The Miami Herald, Mark Seibel, right, managing editor for news, celebrates the paper's Pulitzer Prize for spot news reporting. Right, a moment of silence by employees at The Akron Beacon Journal after layoffs were announced. (Jared Lazarus/The Miami Herald); (Michael Chritton/The Akron Beacon Journal); At Knight Ridder headquarters in San Jose are, from left, David Yarnold, executive editor of The Mercury News; Jerry Ceppos, vice president for news; Susan Goldberg, the Mercury News managing editor; and Tony Ridder, chairman. (Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Tony Ridder, Knight Ridder's chairman, is often caught between competing corporate interests. (Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Looking for Respect"Despite intense efforts by Tony Ridder, Knight Ridder's chief executive, to satisfy Wall Street, the performance of the company's stock has not kept up with its industry peers since Mr. Ridder took the helm. Graph tracks monthly closes of S.& P. Newspaper Publishing Index and Knight Ridder's share prices from April 1995 through 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) Chart: "Circulation Swoon"As the newspaper industry's circulation has shrunk, Knight Ridder's newspaper markets have suffered disproportionately from labor troubles, economic dislocation and demographic shifts. NEWSPAPER: Philadelphia InquirerPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 393,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -20.8 NEWSPAPER: Detroit Free PressPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 363,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -39.3 NEWSPAPER: Miami HeraldPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 326,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -24.8 NEWSPAPER: San Jose Mercury NewsPREVIOUS OWNER: RidderAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 284,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: +2.9 NEWSPAPER: Kansas City StarPREVIOUS OWNER: Capital CitiesAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 268,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -6.6 NEWSPAPER: Charlotte ObserverPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 241,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: +1.7 NEWSPAPER: Fort Worth Star-TelegramPREVIOUS OWNER: Capital CitiesAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 236,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -12.3 NEWSPAPER: St. Paul Pioneer PressPREVIOUS OWNER: RidderAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 202,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: +2.0 NEWSPAPER: Philadelphia Daily NewsPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 152,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -31.6 NEWSPAPER: Akron Beacon JournalPREVIOUS OWNER: KnightAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 143,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -9.1 Top 10 Knight Ridder newspapersAVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 2,608,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -17.8 Newspaper industry total+AVG. WEEKDAY CIRCULATION (MARCH 2001): 56,085,000CIRCULATION CHANGE, 1990 TO 2000*: -10.0% *Change in six-month averages ended Sept. 30, 1990, and Sept. 30, 2000.+Full-year average circulation total. (Sources: Audit Bureau of Circulations; Newspaper Association of America)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS REPORTING (90%); WRITERS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); NEWSPRINT (67%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (64%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) NEWSPAPERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (59%) KNIGHT RIDDER 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES; 

PERSON: RIDDER, TONY; BARRINGER, FELICITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



775 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: 'Living Wage' Ordinance Both Delights And Divides 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif., May 25 

 BODY:
To Celia Talavera, a housekeeper at an oceanfront hotel here, the passage of an ordinance raising the minimum wage to $10.50 in coastal sections of the city means the chance to save a little money to send her children to college.
 But Jeremiah Zinger, an actor working the lunch shift at Ocean Avenue Seafood, says the ordinance could cost him his day job because the restaurant's general manager is considering closing for lunch rather than paying the higher wage. 
 On Wednesday, the Santa Monica City Council passed one of the country's most extensive "living wage" laws, requiring that businesses with annual gross revenues of $5 million or more in the city's coastal and downtown tourism areas pay workers at least $10.50 an hour beginning in July 2002. (The state minimum wage is $6.25 and is to increase to $6.75 in January 2002.) 
Advocates of the ordinance contend that hotels and restaurants along Santa Monica's two-mile coastline and adjacent business districts have benefited from public-improvement projects but failed to share the wealth with service workers.
The ordinance also requires that workers receive an additional $1.75 an hour for health insurance the first year, increasing to $2.50 in July 2003. Part of the law, which protects workers from retaliation by employers, could go into effect this summer. About 40 businesses will be affected.
Although about 50 cities have passed living-wage ordinances, until now the laws have been applied only to city contractors, companies leasing city land or those receiving economic development money.
"This is the first ordinance that covers a zone that has nothing to do directly with the city property or money," said Madeline Janis-Aparicio, executive director of the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy, an advocate for the working poor. "It's one of the biggest victories the living-wage movement has ever had." 
But legal challenges, led by the hotel industry, are expected. Tom Larmore, a lawyer who heads the Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce Living Wage Committee, said opponents of the ordinance would most likely argue that the law denies equal protection to businesses.
"Here you have businesses who are on different sides of the street operating under different rules," Mr. Larmore said.
At hearings on the ordinance, some business owners said they would have to lay off workers and feared losing employees to businesses paying the higher wages.
"Smaller businesses are very concerned they'll have to match these salaries or start losing their better employees," Mr. Larmore said. 
But Joseph Lawrence, assistant city attorney, said city officials believed the law would be upheld.
Ms. Janis-Aparicio said the ordinance provided another way to raise wages in a city where union-organizing drives among service employees have failed. She estimated that about 2,000 families would benefit.
Many of those who stand to gain under the new ordinance are new immigrants and longtime Latino residents who take buses from outlying areas to work in the hotels in Santa Monica, whose expansive beaches, pier and high-end shops and restaurants make it a premier tourist destination in the Los Angeles area.
Ms. Talavera, who has fought for unionization and the living wage bill, rides a bus two hours each way to get to and from her job at Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel. She makes $9.88 an hour and cleans 14 rooms in her eight-hour workday.
Though a raise to $10.50 an hour might not be much, Ms. Talavera, 42 and a mother of four, said at least it would provide a small amount for savings, it was guaranteed, and it included money for benefits.
"I am fighting for a living wage because I want to work there for a long time," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeremiah Zinger, who waits tables at Ocean Avenue Seafood in Santa Monica, Calif., says the "living wage" ordinance may cost him his job. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Time) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVING WAGE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CITIES (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); NEW ECONOMY (64%); TOURISM (55%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%) LABOR; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESTAURANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) SANTA MONICA (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



776 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Europe Expands as Market for Colombian Cocaine 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, May 28 

 BODY:
As cocaine use in the United States has leveled off, trafficking to Europe from Colombia and other cocaine-producing South American countries has picked up, increasing at a particularly rapid pace since the mid-1990's, according to the latest American data.
 Estimates by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy indicate that up to 220 tons of cocaine flowed to Europe last year, as much as double the amount in 1996. 
 The United States, in comparison, received about 330 tons last year, a figure that has remained stable in recent years as consumption by casual users has fallen.
"It is certainly true that a bigger portion of cocaine goes to Europe than previously," said Klaus Nyholm, who oversees the United Nations Drug Control Program's office in Colombia. "The U.S. was the country of cocaine consumption par excellence, while the heroin and opiates were for Asia and Europe. What we see now is that the markets are coming to look more and more alike." 
Europol, the European Union's fledgling police agency, said in a recent report that 35 percent of Colombia's cocaine was winding up in the union, entering mainly through Spain and the Netherlands. Seizures in member nations reached 43 tons in 1999, the report said, up 37 percent from the year before.
"There is a definite, unmistakable upward trend," said Robert Brown, acting deputy director for supply reduction at the White House drug policy office, which analyzes worldwide consumption and trafficking data.
The dire warning from American officials, some of whom say Europe is facing a crisis, have irked some European officials and drug policy experts. 
They question Washington's assessment and view the new data as part of its effort to obtain more aid for Colombia's war on drugs, which was created with American pressure and involvement. 
"There is very little sympathy and understanding," Martin Jelsma, a drug policy expert in the Netherlands, said of how Europeans view American policy toward Colombia.
"Based on private conversations I've had this year with officials from several European countries, the rejection of the current U.S. drug policy approach to Colombia is growing very clearly," added Mr. Jelsma, of the Transnational Institute, which analyzes drug use and international trafficking.
That approach relies on the American expenditure of $1.3 billion, most of it in military assistance, for the aerial spraying of herbicides on coca fields. 
The Europeans have in general resisted supporting what they view as a military-style strategy that they say could intensify Colombia's 37-year-long conflict with leftist rebels, who are active in coca-growing areas and profit from the drug trade. The European Union instead recently pledged $293 million for social development programs in Colombia's impoverished countryside.
"There has been a tendency in Europe to look at the Colombian problem as one of the Colombians, of course, and the United States," said a high-ranking European official knowledgeable about drug interdiction efforts. "The Europeans are clearly dragging their feet. They are engaging more, yes, but from a very low level."
The Americans are irritated by Europe's stance. And in private conversations, American officials acknowledge working diplomatic channels to obtain more aid for Colombia.
"It's big business in Europe, and we think it's going to get a lot bigger," one State Department official said of the cocaine trade. "And we're trying to convince the Europeans to get concerned about it."
Trafficking to Europe is not new. Law enforcement authorities began detecting large-scale shipments in the 1980's, when Colombian drug cartels, battered by aggressive law enforcement, opened new routes to that largely untapped market. The demand in Europe, however, remained relatively modest through the early 1990's, dwarfed by a seemingly unquenchable appetite in the United States. That has changed.
The Colombians, for their part, have in recent months more openly pleaded for aid from European governments. Speaking of the common goal of eradicating drugs, President Andres Pastrana has traveled to Europe and met here with numerous European delegations.
Other Colombians present the issue in starker terms. "They have been ashamed to say they have a problem, even though everyone sees what is happening," Rosso Jose Serrano, the former director of the Colombian National Police, said of the Europeans. "It seems to me that this is what happened in the United States, that they only took notice after the place was inundated with cocaine."
The Europeans bristle under such criticism, saying an emphasis on treatment and education in their own countries is a more viable solution to drug use. 
European drug experts say American high-technology interdiction efforts and harsh enforcement inside the United States have had little impact in curtailing the flow of drugs to American users, an assertion many American drug experts do not dispute.
The Europeans are especially strongly opposed to aerial spraying of coca crops in Colombia, which they say fails to address the country's deep social problems. Their opposition was highlighted in February when the European Parliament voted 474 to 1 to reject the American-supported spraying program in Colombia.
Europeans generally acknowledge that cocaine use, along with that of other drugs, is up, but they say American data exaggerate the increase. 
"It's a slow increase," said Ingo Michels, who runs the office for the German drug commissioner. "The number has not been increasing dramatically in the last 10 years."
Yet European drug policy experts also acknowledge that drug consumption figures across the continent are not uniform and that the data are not as reliable as in the United States, which has been analyzing drug use and trafficking for much longer. 
Europol says that between 1 and 3 percent of European adults and between 1 and 5 percent of young adults have sampled cocaine, comparable to figures for American consumption.
American estimates of drug flow to Europe are based, in part, on the theory that 25 percent of all drug shipments are seized or lost en route. And since about 50 European-bound tons of cocaine were seized in 1999, according to American figures, officials there say more than 200 tons were shipped. 
The Americans said improved European interdiction efforts had helped lead to more seizures. But drug experts also say the high seizure rates in Europe -- they increased by 15 percent a year in the 1990's -- signal a rise in consumption.
By conservative estimates, according to American government reports, European cocaine use has grown by 10 percent a year in the 1990's. That rate, said the White House drug policy office, "is similar to the rate that U.S. consumption rose during its greatest increase," from the mid-1970's to mid-1980's.
Those developments come as Colombian cocaine trafficking has undergone major changes since 1993, when the Colombian police tracked down and killed Pablo Escobar Gaviria, the infamous leader of the Medellin cartel.
The large, flamboyant cartels of the Escobar era are gone. The Colombian cocaine trade is instead run by small, less visible trafficking groups that are more cautious and more willing to work with one another, said Francisco Thoumi, a Colombian-born economist who is writing a book about the Andean drug economy. Those groups have also come to rely on European markets more than their predecessors.
A window into the European drug pipeline was opened in April, when the Colombian Army tracked down Luiz Fernando da Costa, a powerful Brazilian trafficker who had been transporting cocaine via small private planes east to Suriname and south to Brazil. Much of the cocaine, the Colombian military said, then wound up in Europe.
Law enforcement officials here say Mr. da Costa's operation underscored how traffickers who have set their sights on Europe use circuitous routes, shipping cocaine along the Pacific coast to Chile or through the heart of South America to Argentina and Brazil. Container ships or freighters then transport the drugs to Europe.
"All these traffickers use the path of least resistance, to get away from enforcement," said Joseph D. Keefe, chief of operations for the Drug Enforcement Administration in Washington.
The extra effort, the experts say, is well worth it. In American cities, the price for a kilo of cocaine -- about 2.2 pounds -- can run below $20,000. But in Britain, the State Department says, a kilo can bring in $42,000 to $51,000, and in France, $35,000 to $45,000.
"You're talking about $18,000 a kilo in the United States when it's anywhere from $45,000 to $60,000 in Europe," said an official in the United States Embassy in Bogota who works on drug issues. "So profit is the motive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: These bales of cocaine were found at a factory in Valdemoro, Spain, south of Madrid. Four Spaniards and five Colombians were arrested. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A7) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Cocaine Shipments"Chart shows consumption of cocaine in the United States and Europe. Total are estimated.(Source: White House Office of National Drug Control Policy)(pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (93%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); HEROIN (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); POLICE FORCES (67%); HERBICIDES (60%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); UNITED NATIONS DRUG CONTROL PROGRAMME (56%); EUROPEAN POLICE OFFICE (55%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (70%) EUROPE (99%); COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); ASIA (79%) EUROPE; COLOMBIA; SPAIN; NETHERLANDS

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



777 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3745 words

HEADLINE: THE CROSSING: A special report.; 
A Perilous 4,000-Mile Passage to Work

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
Midway through his second night in the Arizona desert, Eduardo Cervantes began to hallucinate. The stars turned red and fluttered like moths. His stomach was empty. His throat ached and his eyes burned with dust.
 But he and the other Mexicans kept on across the desert, through the cactus and nettles, toward an unseen highway where their guide said would be the ride that would take them farther from the border and the poverty of home. So when the highway could finally be seen in the distance, a joy came over Eduardo Cervantes and the men. 
 They were on their way to Farmingville, a town on eastern Long Island with jobs paying $15 an hour. They carried a grim view of Farmingville, where, they knew, people took an unkind view of them. Still, they went. There was money there. 
So they crawled under a cattle fence, crossed over the highway and under another fence. There, waiting, stood two Mexicans with pistols in their waistbands. They were not frightening to Eduardo Cervantes, who at 19, had been through this drill before. Bandits who prey along the illegal immigrant trail are part of Mexican life, like the police there who hold out their palms if you want to park near your church.
"Take off your clothes," the bandits ordered in Spanish. They rifled through the pockets and checked the linings for money. The air was biting and the near-naked men clutched at themselves. One clever guy had his money taped to his scrotum. Another had it hidden in his hair. The bandits told them to dress, leave their bags, and walk back to where they came from. "Half an hour," the bandits said.
When the migrants returned, they gathered their belongings off the desert floor. They had missed their ride, the guide told them. They would have to camp and walk a third night, another 25 miles, to the next pickup spot. The men took shelter beneath a spiny tree, wrapping themselves in garbage bags to hold in the heat that never came.
"I'm so cold," said Eduardo. He was thin and frail and his teeth rattled. "I told my father I didn't want to do this." 
"You're a Mexican," said his friend, Mario Huerta. "What else can you do?"
Faced with that same question, hundreds of thousands of Mexicans attempt to cross the border into the United States each year. Not all of them make it. Last week, 14 people died of exposure on a desolate stretch to the west in the Arizona desert, one of the deadliest illegal crossings in recent years. 
The two friends making the crossing last month had come from San Lorenzo Tezonco, a poor district in the southeastern section of Mexico City. They would cover 4,000 miles before reaching Farmingville. There they would stand on street corners with hundreds of other Mexicans, waiting for an American contractor to give them a job building a house, or maybe landscaping a yard.
The people in Farmingville feel as if their town has been invaded. Some videotape the migrants on Fridays and picket them on Saturdays. A proposal in March to create a hiring site with a portable toilet was rejected by the County Legislature after it turned neighbor against neighbor.
Last year, two white men hired two brown men on a Farmingville corner with the promise of work. But instead, the Mexicans were taken to an abandoned building and beaten with work tools. News of the attack made it all the way down to San Lorenzo.
For their part, the Mexicans sneer at the Americans, call them lazy, point out that Long Island has Mexican fingerprints all over it. The hedgerows in the Hamptons are groomed with Latino hands. New houses in the nicer parts of town are built by Mexicans. And down in San Lorenzo, you can count the houses being built by Farmingville money. Mr. Huerta is building one. So is the Cervantes family.
The villages are linked by dependence, resentment and a crooked obstacle course of corrupt Mexican policemen, dusty border towns, gangsters, barbed wire, immigration agents with infrared glasses, bandits, oily used-car salesmen, interstate highways and New Jersey troopers.
They are also linked by a man named Lalo Cervantes.

A Clever Man Named Lalo
Lalo Cervantes, the father of Eduardo, is a slick man with the dark copper skin of an Indian and a black mustache. He stands 5 feet 4, no more, and is 38 and street savvy. He speaks English well and is directly responsible for bringing 50 men from Mexico City to Long Island. Those men, in turn, have brought perhaps 200 more. Mr. Cervantes knows the contractors on Long Island. He knows which used car salesmen in Phoenix will speed the migrants on their way. He knows where to get legitimate birth certificates for illegitimate purposes.
It was April, late in the season for a migrant worker. Farmingville was already full up with them, some just 15 or 16 years old. The word of the good Long Island money had drifted home and anybody coming after May could not be guaranteed work.
Lalo Cervantes slammed down the pay phone at an Exxon station in San Antonio. He was fed up with his son. Eduardo was supposed to be waiting at the Mexican border town of Agua Prieta, separated by a 12-foot steel fence from Douglas, Ariz. 
"He's at home watching American movies on the VCR and making out with his girlfriend on the bunk bed," Mr. Cervantes said. Then he peeled away in his four-door Ford and headed south for Mexico. 

In Comes Money, Up Go Houses
The barrio of Lopez Portillo in the district of San Lorenzo is a swamp filled in with earth and stone. The streets are dirt; the people keep cows, or horses.
There are perhaps 25 new homes being built with money earned in America and they are made of gray brick. Most of these houses are unfinished and they give the barrio the look of an eroded sand castle. 
The Cervantes home is impressive. It has seven support studs, is made of red brick and has curved windows. There is a steel door, a half-finished chimney and an unfinished roof. There is no plumbing yet and the family bathes from plastic buckets.
"You know man, when I die they can't say bad things about me," Lalo Cervantes said to himself more than anyone as he stood outside and smoked reefer, a deep habit of his. "I built this. I did something good."
Angel Hernandez was drinking in front of his own house, a place haphazard with chickens and cactus. He had been drinking all day and he would drink all evening until he passed out. His children had no shoes. He still works at the car wash that he and Lalo worked at as teenagers. He never made the trip north and he has nothing.
"You really did something with yourself, Lalo, that's good." Mr. Hernandez said. He had seen his old friend on television last summer when the two Mexicans had been beaten on Long Island. Mr. Cervantes had told the television reporters that, of course, the Mexicans don't pay taxes. But they don't cause problems, he said, and the American economy could never function without them. People in the barrio saw that interview and considered Lalo Cervantes some sort of freedom fighter or human rights activist. 
"Have a drink with me, cousin," Mr. Hernandez said. But Lalo Cervantes was embarrassed for his threadbare friend. He waved him off and went to bed. 

A Coyote and His Chickens
So many men from the barrio go to the United States every year that the government has put a sign near the highway that reads: "Welcome Home Piasanos!" Mr. Cervantes and his son, headed the other way, motored toward the border town of Agua Prieta, 1,200 miles north. 
With luck, the entire journey to Long Island would take two weeks. Lalo Cervantes would not make the crossing on foot. He would drive over the border. He has been in the United States, on and off, for the past 15 years. He has an agricultural work visa that expires in 2003. It is his visa and his street connections that make the smuggling endeavor possible. He usually does this for what he calls a nominal fee.
As they pulled out of the barrio, he explained to his son that he was going to show him the ropes, show him how to make a double life in America and introduce him to the right people. Lalo Cervantes also planned to bring his sister, brother, cousin and brother-in-law to Farmingville. They had already sneaked over the border and were waiting for him in Phoenix.
"After this," he said, "I'm retiring."
The transmission of the car smoked and made a bad sound. "Whir, whir, whir."
Eduardo had blond streaks in his hair and wore a lazy expression. He was tall and infirm, subject to nosebleeds. He had left school at 14 and had few prospects besides the carwash. He had put on his best clothes the night before and did not come home until morning. He looked tired and bored in the passenger seat and had a hickey on his neck.
They stopped for Mario Huerta, a round 25-year-old with an easy sense of humor and a pregnant wife. Between them, the men had the car and about $2,000.
Eduardo had been to Farmingville before. He came for a few months a few years ago and didn't like it much. On the way across the border, he had gotten lost when his group was attacked by bandits. He wandered for two days without water before the smuggler came back and found him.
His brother had worked in Farmingville last year and he told Eduardo about the poisonous feelings there, about the stinking life with 20 men in a house.
"My father told me someone up there is sleeping in my bed," he told Mario with a face. "It doesn't sound too good up there."
After two days on the road, the Ford rolled into Agua Prieta around midnight, the brakes squealing and the transmission burping thin smoke. The strip was lit with neon beer signs and lined with skid row motels and men with new trucks and cell phones and clean white shirts.
Agua Prieta is a dusty city that doubled in size, to 100,000 people, over the last five years as American companies opened factories there, and the United States Border Patrol, with an increased budget and a renewed sense of purpose, all but shut down the routes along the traditional border jumping towns of San Diego, El Paso and Laredo, Texas. Arizona is now the bottleneck where the most illegal immigrants make their way into the United States. According to the Border Patrol, there were 272,397 arrests of people crossing through the Tucson sector in 1997. Last year, that number nearly tripled.
And roughly one person a day died last year trying to cross the border from Mexico, 17 of them around the Douglas area, officials say. The 14 deaths in western Arizona last week illustrated the fact that with greater police presence, people are willing to try increasingly risky and more inhospitable routes across the border.
All along the avenues of Agua Prieta were rundown guest houses that shelter the hopefuls before they make their walk across the desert. There were also good hotels and bars fed by the underground economy. Outside those bars, cocaine and pills were sold and teenagers sniffed fumes from paper bags. Inside were mean-looking women for sale and men dressed like cowboys.
The town is quiet compared to last year, when thousands meandered the streets. So far this year, there have been about 25 percent fewer apprehensions by the Border Patrol in southern Arizona than last year and nationally, arrests of illegal immigrants are down 22 percent. The reasons, officials say, are varied: from increased manpower and better technology, to high expectations among Mexicans that their new president, Vicente Fox, will curb corruption. 
But there is another reason that fewer people are crossing, said Frank D. Bean, a demographer at the University of California at Irvine. Many of the 4.5 million Mexicans working illegally in the United States are not going home. 
"It seems to be that people are staying longer because the financial and physical costs of getting in are going higher," he said.
Lalo Cervantes stopped at a seedy hotel and knocked on the door of room No. 4. A man with a shaved head and boils on his neck answered. He was the coyote, the kingpin of the smuggling ring. Pancho. He and Lalo had done business together before.
The price for the trip to Phoenix had gone to $800 from $650 last year. The border police had gotten tougher and the smuggler could no longer take 50 to 100 people at once. He had changed his game, taking 10 to 12 now. It is less conspicuous, he said, but more sure. He promised Mr. Cervantes he would put his best man on the job, his cousin Placas. "Your people will be safe," Pancho said.
There was a fight going on between the coyote and his guides. The guides do the actual walking across the desert and they are paid $75 a head. With fewer "pollos" -- chickens, as migrants are called -- there was less money for the guides.
So the cartel was starting to crumble. Guides like Placas had taken to stealing some pollos, hiding them in their own houses and selling them back to their loved ones in the United States, Pancho explained to Mr. Cervantes. Since the business works on a cash-on-delivery basis, this cut the coyote out of the picture. 
Pancho said the trip would be 50 miles and would take two evenings to walk. It was the long way around the mountains.
Eduardo was scared. "I don't want to do this," he said to Mario outside the hotel. "My heart is pounding."
They drove to a guest house with a dozen awful-smelling beds, a television, a shrine to the Virgin and three toilets. Eduardo and Mario killed four days watching television, sleeping and drinking chocolate milk. A small child kept poking his head out of a room. His mother could be heard whispering to him, "Come in and close the door."
They called her Salada, Hard Luck. She was homely, in her late 30's and had been staying in the guest house for two weeks. Her money was nearly gone. It is bad for women like that, Lalo said. Sometimes they stay so long, they never leave and become a pillow for the revolving coterie of men.
She was not wanted on any trip by anybody. It was the boy. He was a burden. He squawked like a crow. "She's a stupid old lady," said a short man named Noel, who was trying to get back to his $10.50-an-hour job making sandwiches in Bronxville, N.Y., and was busy erasing his fingerprints with sandpaper. He was caught four times in the last month by immigration and another arrest could mean jail time.
But he was unconcerned. His wife was safe in New York. He had bought copies of legitimate work papers for his wife and his child for $5,200 and they had driven over the border as easy as you please.
"Her man should do the same," he said of Salada. "You can't take a baby through the mountains. Stupid old cow."
The night of the crossing, Mario and Eduardo shared a taxi with another man into the desert about 20 minutes from town. The driver stopped at a turnoff, said "Good luck," and disappeared. 
Without a word, Placas, the guide, emerged from the weeds. The sun was setting. There were perhaps 80 shadows there, and Placas commanded 10, including an American reporter. They all carried plastic milk jugs filled with water. There was a large, unruly group of women and children. Salada was among them, holding the hand of her little crow.
They called him Placas, "Plates," because he looked like a criminal who holds up plates for his mug shot. He was a tall, handsome man of 21, with white teeth and a mop of hair tied up on the crown of his head like a feather duster. He was lean and tough and tattooed. Placas ran his chickens hard, through the dark desert, over railroad tracks, through cactus and thickets that ripped at the skin. One man fell and his jug of water exploded. He turned back. He would never make it without water.
There was no more steel fence this far out in the desert. There were no motion sensors or cameras. The border itself was marked by barbed wire and an eight-foot trench, nothing more. The men climbed through it and ran for the hills. They walked 10 hours the first night over the mountains, groping and injuring themselves and avoiding the spotlights of Border Patrol agents who roamed the frontier in all-terrain vehicles. Eduardo was sure-footed. Mario labored and stumbled, but never complained. The desert was cold. The moon rose and sat in the clouds like a pearl in velvet.
Near sunrise, Placas thought he heard ranchers, men who a year ago held the Mexicans at gunpoint until immigration officials could arrive to arrest them. He told his chickens to take shelter under the scrub and wait out the sun. All around was the detritus of mass migration: clothes, bottles, wrappers, cans. Two paths headed north and you could walk to Tucson if you had to.
Six men were from the town of Puebla on their way to Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, bound for restaurants and delis and corners. They said little. The air was hot and still, the ground dry and baked. There were no birds, no wind. Only the sun and the ants moved. 
Eduardo sat under a sage bush and wondered when he would be coming home. November? December? Mario thought about his wife. It's hard being a Mexican, he said. Your own country is corrupt and in the other it is a life of solitude. Mario laughed about the man who fell on his jug.
"That wetback would have made a terrible dishwasher anyway," he said.
Eduardo ate pineapple and stared across the mountains.

Men With Bad Haircuts Arrive
 The second night, after they had been robbed, the men took shelter in a cow pasture underneath a spiny tree. There was little food or water. The flies were terrible. There was a mutiny brewing under the tree. They were convinced Placas had double-crossed them. "How could the bandits have found us in the middle of the desert?" said a man named Felipe.
When Placas awoke from his nap, he helped himself to what remained of the water and food. Then he clipped and filed his toenails. They were black with blood.
"Next time we'll get another coyote," Eduardo whispered. "With this guy it's too much walking and too much talking."
Eduardo doubted the smuggler. It seemed like they were walking in circles. Over the barbed wire fence, under the barbed wire fence. When Placas thought he saw the blue lights of the Border Patrol, he took off, leaving the illegals behind.
Late into the third evening the moon rose, casting a bright light down upon them. They crawled through an open field around the sleeping outskirts of Benson, Ariz., and waited for their ride. The men lay on the desert floor, shivering, cursing Placas. If they didn't make it tonight, it looked like jail.
But the truck did arrive. Its windows were painted black and the drivers were Mexican. They had bad haircuts and they drove 100 miles an hour down the country roads. They made it to the highway, avoiding the immigration checkpoints. The men in back were battered, hungry and happy.
Eduardo nudged Mario. "Don't fall asleep," he said. "Keep your eyes open friend. Be ready for anything." You could see his father's toughness in him.
The truck skidded into the parking lot of a restaurant in southern Phoenix. The hatch flipped open. And there stood Lalo Cervantes, with tears in his eyes.

A Place on the Floor
Instead of paying the coyote $800 a head to drive his people to New York as many do, Lalo Cervantes went to a used car salesman he knew in south Phoenix. Most Mexicans do not work their way around the country like this, only the sophisticated ones like Mr. Cervantes. It is men like him who are generally responsible for the colonies of Mexican peasants and barrio dwellers who have settled from Alaska to Alabama. 
The salesman was a Mexican too, overweight, doing well for himself. Last year, when Mr. Cervantes brought 25 people to Farmingville, the salesman sold him a van and a four-door Ford on credit. The year before, when Mr. Cervantes brought his first 25 people over, he paid cash.
This time, Mr. Cervantes chose a white Chrysler -- white is preferable, he said, more pure-looking and family-like. The price was $900 cash, including the license plates and a 24-hour head start before the salesman called the Department of Motor Vehicles to cancel the plates. The tires were shot. It took Mr. Cervantes a few days to scratch the money together. "Good luck," the salesman said as Lalo pulled away.
The drive across the United States took three days, mostly because Lalo Cervantes insisted on a circuitous route favored by the coyotes, avoiding Albuquerque, Oklahoma City, and St. Louis because, he said, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had checkpoints in those towns. A half-day was spent replacing two blown tires.
The most conspicuous in the group was Lalo's brother, Oscar, a scrawny peasant with a sleepy expression that made him look drunk. He wore dirty clothes and wandered stupidly around the gas stations. Lalo's brother-in-law drove erratically and the others were too frightened to drive at all. There was little money for food and Lalo screamed at any misstep.
It was dark in New Jersey, near the turnpike, when the car with Arizona license plates overheated. Mr. Cervantes laid into his brother-in-law as they stood on the side of the highway, staring at the motor. "I told you to keep an eye on the temperature!" he said. "Listen stupid, New Jersey is the worst state in America. The police don't like brown faces here!" With that they drove slowly into New York, spending their last coin on the Triborough Bridge. Two smoking cars packed with illegals.
They reached Farmingville at 2 a.m. Someone was sleeping in Eduardo's bed. The house was full of men, who each pay $250 to the Portuguese owner. Most had stayed the winter rather than try the risky crossing in spring. Christmas dinner for them came in fast food bags.
Lalo's family slept on the floor.
The next morning on the corner started the way it always starts, at 7 a.m., with 200 men waiting for the chance at some work. The sign on the corner said: "Welcome to Farmingville. Cultural Heart of Brookhaven."
Oscar kept his chin on his chest, his hands in his pockets. "Oscar!" Lalo cursed. "I didn't bring you 4,000 miles to stand there looking stupid. Go earn some money!"
"But this looks bad Lalo," Oscar said weakly, pointing with his shoulder at the pack of men on the corner.
The cousin and the brother-in-law kicked pebbles with their toes and sucked slowly on someone else's cigarettes. "What's the matter with you people?" Lalo Cervantes said.
Eduardo and Mario Huerta already had prearranged jobs that would start on Monday. They came to the corner to watch.
A landscaper pulled up. Lalo Cervantes negotiated a deal for his cousin and brother-in-law: $10 an hour for a roofing job. By 9 a.m., there wasn't a Mexican man standing on the corner of Farmingville, U.S.A.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crossing the Sonoran Desert in Arizona, Mexicans face a long journey to Farmingville, N.Y., where they will wait on street corners for work. (Charlie LeDuff/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Lalo Cervantes, left, surveying houses in Lopez Portillo built with money sent from Long Island. Above, Mr. Cervantes's wife bidding him goodbye. Top, a man who filed away his fingerprints.; Lalo Cervantes, above, who brings many Mexicans to New York, checking his car after it overheated in New Jersey. Immigrants in Farmingville, N.Y., right, looking for work just hours after their arrival.; Lalo Cervantes, left, his son Eduardo, and Mario Huerta at a motel on the Mexican border a day before crossing into the United States. (Photographs by Charlie LeDuff/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Map of United States and Mexico: Migrants entering the United States illegally often begin at the border town of Agua Prieta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); DESERTS (89%); REFUGEES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); MIGRANT WORKERS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; MIGRANT LABOR 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (73%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO; FARMINGDALE (NY); AGUA PRIETA (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



778 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1729 words

HEADLINE: These Days 'Made in Taiwan' Often Means'Made in China' 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: LINKOU, Taiwan, May 23 

 BODY:
Horace Tsiang, who was born in Shanghai in 1941 but spent most of his life in the United States, often dreams about finishing his career in the city of his birth. He may get the chance.
 Mr. Tsiang's computer company, which is based in this dreary industrial suburb of Taipei, is moving much of its manufacturing to a factory near Shanghai. The company will keep its design work in Taiwan. But within a decade, Mr. Tsiang predicts, China will take over that too -- leaving Taiwan as a satellite, rather than the engine, of East Asia's technology industry. 
 "It's a no-brainer -- nothing can stop it from happening," said Mr. Tsiang, who knows about the ebb and flow of technology from a stint at the ill-fated American computer maker Wang Laboratories. 
Mr. Tsiang is part of a corporate exodus that has profound implications for this technology-dependent island. It also has implications for American computer makers like Dell, Compaq and Gateway, which rely on Taiwanese companies to build many of the personal computers that bear their brand names.
As Taiwan's subcontractors migrate to China, the United States is likely to end up in an odd position: its main supplier of PC's and other information-technology, or I.T., gear will be its main strategic adversary. Given the recent rancor between Beijing and Washington, that prospect unsettles some executives.
"There is a question of economic security," said Morris Chang, the chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, one of the world's largest chip makers. "If in the future, China were to stop shipping I.T. products, that could shut down a large part of the I.T. industry in the U.S."
Mr. Chang and other executives believe such a scenario is unlikely, in part because Beijing cannot afford to jeopardize its own economic growth. But they note that with China becoming a critical link in the global supply chain, political skirmishes could have costly economic fallout.
"It is the computing equivalent of mutually assured destruction," said Andrew S. Grove, chairman of the No. 1 chip maker, Intel. "You can't hurt the other party without hurting yourself."
There is no shortage of potential bones of contention. Despite the rapid economic integration of Taiwan and China, the two remain sharply at odds over the future of the island. Beijing regards it as a renegade province that must be unified with the Chinese mainland, by force if necessary. President Bush recently pledged to do "whatever it takes" to defend Taiwan from attack.
"Unintentionally, or due to lack of awareness, one could start a chain of events that could lead to disruption," Mr. Grove said.
A few statistics illustrate Taiwan's linchpin role in the global computer industry: Its companies make 53 percent of the world's laptops and 25 percent of its desktop PC's. They make an even larger percentage of peripheral products, like scanners, monitors and keyboards. Forty-one percent of Taiwan's laptops, and 38 percent of desktops, are shipped to the United States.
Few Americans realize how much of their equipment is made in Taiwan. The PC's sold by Compaq, Dell, and Gateway bear few signs of their place of origin -- a testament to the quiet competence of Taiwanese companies that has made them the subcontractors of choice for the American computer industry.
But as PC's have become a commodity, the Americans have squeezed their Taiwanese suppliers for lower costs. Taiwan's deteriorating economy and scarcity of land are also hurting. That has prompted the major players -- Quanta, Compal, First International and Arima -- to search for other sites.
The obvious candidate is China, with its vast, cheap and increasingly educated labor pool. Add to that the low cost of power, water and easy financing by solicitous local governments, and Taiwanese companies say the cost of doing business in China is a fraction of that at home.
They are also being lured by the market. Unlike in the United States, where sales of PC's have slowed, demand is booming in China, as middle-class parents buy computers for their children. Credit Lyonnais Securities, a brokerage firm, estimates that China's market will grow 41 percent this year.
Taiwan already makes the bulk of components like disk drives and power adaptors in Chinese factories. Eight out of 10 Taiwanese scanners, and nearly half the monitors, are assembled in the mainland.
Last year, Taiwan produced 25 percent of desktop PC's in Chinese plants, according to the Market Intelligence Center, a research group in Taipei. Those numbers understate the reality, since many PC's are basically built in China -- but shipped to Taiwan or the United States for final assembly.
Compal Electronics, the second-largest maker of laptop computers, said it would move 15 percent of its manufacturing to China this year, anther 50 percent in 2002, and the rest within three years.
"American companies don't care where you make computers," said Mr. Tsiang, whose company, First International Computer, manufactures PC's for the Japanese giant, NEC. "They want the cheapest costs, period." 
These economic imperatives may bring Taiwan's computer manufacturers into conflict with the government. Technology helped lift this island from the ashes of war to prosperity, and Taipei is loath to surrender it. As part of a strategy known as "go slow, be patient," the government imposes strict restrictions on the kinds of technology that can be exported to China.
While companies can make PC's, monitors, keyboards and other low-end products, they are not allowed to build laptops or semiconductors, which have higher profits and more sophisticated engineering.
Taiwan is expected to lift the ban on laptops and 6-inch silicon wafers, but politics is slowing down the process. Vice President Annette Lu, a supporter of Taiwanese independence, says it is "ridiculous" for Taiwanese companies to pour money into China, when Beijing has 300 missiles aimed at the island.
While the politicians argue, the companies are plowing ahead. Compal, Arima and First International have opened factories to assemble laptop computers near Shanghai. To avoid breaking the rules, they say they are making components, rather than assembling entire machines. But executives said at least two companies were already producing complete laptops in China.
"If they don't get government approval, believe me it will not stop a single project," said Paul S. P. Hsu, a prominent lawyer who represents technology companies like Acer Inc. Mr. Hsu noted that Taiwan companies have already set up offshore companies to make their investments in China.
Taiwanese officials acknowledge it is impossible to reverse the tide. They say their goal is to pace the transfer of technology to China so that Taiwan retains a viable industry of its own. Among the technologies they are encouraging are flat-screen monitors and mobile communications.
"We need to give these new investment projects an opportunity to grow here," said John C. C. Deng, the vice chairman of the Mainland Affairs Council. "If the notebook producers move out too fast, and the suppliers follow them, it will hurt the development of higher-end industries."
The trouble is, Taiwan is no longer such an alluring place to do business. Land is scarce and expensive. The Hsinchu industrial park was the prototype for Asian technology parks when it opened in 1980. Today, it is overcrowded and prone to brown-outs because of inadequate electricity. In 1999, an earthquake briefly halted production at its chip plants and rattled the global industry.
Taiwan's labor force also comes up short. Its universities turn out 4,000 engineers a year, versus 145,000 in China. In Shanghai, a trained engineer costs one-quarter to one-third that of an engineer in Taipei, according to Credit Lyonnais. The disparity is even greater for ordinary workers.
Beyond the numbers, executives say Taiwan's engineers are not especially creative or innovative. Local universities do not emphasize cutting-edge research. And because the technology industry here is so well-entrenched, home-grown engineers pass up the chance to study abroad.
"For the past 10 years, we were able to cover up this weakness with overseas Chinese who came home from Silicon Valley," said Stephen Lee, the chairman of Arima, which also makes mobile phones.
Taiwan's swooning economy has compounded the doubts about its future. The plunge in worldwide technology spending has reverberated through the island, driving unemployment to a 15-year high and humbling corporate icons like Acer, which also recently suffered a fire at its skyscraper headquarters.
"My concern is not so much about the shift in manufacturing to China," said Stan Shih, the founder and chairman of Acer. "My concern is, 'what are we going to do over the next 10 years in Taiwan?' "
Mr. Shih and other executives said Taiwan could still function as an orchestrator, working with American and Japanese companies on designs, which it would then farm out to factories in China.
To be sure, China still lags Taiwan in some areas. Because of restrictions on the export of advanced technology by the United States, China has not yet been able to create a globally competitive chip industry.
Morris Chang of Taiwan Semiconductor said he could not build a factory to turn out chips on 12-inch wafers -- the latest technology -- because he could not install the necessary lithography machines. He added that it would take three to five years to train engineers to run such a factory, known as a fab.
"At this point, I think it would still be risky to build an advanced, high-technology fab in China," he said.
Mr. Chang, a former Texas Instruments executive who started Taiwan Semiconductor in 1987, is known as a China skeptic. But he acknowledged that the scarcity of land -- and the lack of engineering talent -- might someday force his company to expand to the mainland.
That is why Mr. Chang worries about the tension across the Taiwan Strait. On a recent trip to China with Taiwanese executives, Mr. Chang said he warned Chinese leaders that economic ties alone would not close the gap between Beijing and Taipei. To do that, he said, diplomacy must resume.
For Horace Tsiang, who has already put his stake in the ground, the issue is simple. "If war breaks out," he said, "the U.S. won't have any computer suppliers. That's why we hope the Bush administration will get along with China."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stan Shih, the founder of Acer, wonders "what are we going to do over the next 10 years in Taiwan?" (David Hartung for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart:BOUGHT FROM TAIWAN . . .Percentage of world output bought from Taiwan, 2000SCANNERS: 93%MONITORS: 54%DISK DRIVES: 39% . . . BUT MADE IN CHINAPercentage of Taiwanese parts produced in ChinaSCANNERS: 80%MONITORS: 45%DISK DRIVES: 50%(Source: Institute for Information Industries, Taiwan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (58%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); TSM (NYSE) (58%); TSFA (FRA) (58%); 2330 (TAIEX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%) CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



779 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

European Market Expands For Colombian Cocaine
Drug smuggling into Europe from Colombia and other cocaine-producing South American countries has picked up as cocaine use in the United States has leveled off, according to the latest American data. Up to 200 tons of cocaine flowed into Europe last year, as much as double the amount in 1996, officials say. The United States received about 330 tons last year, a figure that has remained stable in recent years as consumption by casual users has fallen. A1

Deal on Spy Plane's Return
American and Chinese officials have "agreed in principle" that the damaged Navy surveillance plane on Hainan will be partly dismantled and removed from China on a giant Russian-designed cargo plane, the American Embassy in Beijing said. A8

Russia Firm on ABM Treaty
The Kremlin said its opposition to the scrapping of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty would not be changed by an American proposal that would reportedly incorporate Russian missiles and radars into a new antimissile defense system. But Russia did not rule out further talks. A3

A French Rebuff to German Plan
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin rejected Germany's proposals for a more centralized federal Europe and instead offered an extensive blueprint for fine-tuning a system that keeps most power in the hands of member states. A6

Racial Tensions in Britain
The authorities blamed members of the white supremacist National Front for two nights of rioting between whites and Asians in Oldham, in the English Midlands, that left 30 people hurt over the weekend. A3

U.N. Group Finds Rise in Slavery
Forced labor, slavery and criminal trafficking in people are increasing globally, with women and children the most at risk, the International Labor Organization said. A6

Old Guard Resists Mexico Vote
The Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has ruled the State of Yucatan since 1929, refused to concede that it lost the gubernatorial election on Sunday, although official returns showed a growing lead for the candidate backed by President Vicente Fox and his National Action Party. A8

Maneuvering in Indonesia
The attorney general cleared President Abdurrahman Wahid of involvement in the two corruption cases that led to his censure and calls for his ouster by Parliament. But his options for political survival still seemed to be narrowing as the lawmakers prepared to vote tomorrow on starting an impeachment. A8

Kidnapping in Philippines
A Muslim group said it was responsible for the kidnapping of 20 people, including 3 Americans, from Dos Palmas Island Resort in Palawan Province on Sunday. (AP)

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A10-13

H.M.O.'s and Hospitals Lag In Reporting Medical Errors
A federal program to protect patients from incompetent doctors is failing because H.M.O.'s and hospitals rarely report those doctors to the government as they are required to do, federal investigators say. In the last decade, 84 percent of H.M.O.'s and 60 percent of hospitals never reported a single "adverse action" to the government, a report by the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services said, even though a government study found tens of thousands of Americans die yearly because of medical errors. A1

Pledge to Improve G.I. Life
The Army chief of staff, Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, responding to a survey of 13,000 officers, soldiers and family members, acknowledged that too many good troops and future commanders were leaving the Army and pledged to improve the morale of service members and their families. A13

Energy on the Agenda
President Bush was to meet today with Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, to discuss California's energy problems during Mr. Bush's first visit to the state as president. A12

Mr. Bush signed legislation to speed the building of a World War II memorial on the Mall in Washington. A12

A Maverick Democrat Explains
Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, who flirted with the idea of leaving his party, said in an interview that Democrats had become too liberal and partisan to win the Southern states needed to regain the White House. A10

Girding for Wildfires
Forecasters are predicting another big fire season and with wildfires raging in Florida and Nevada, federal agencies are bolstering their firefighting rolls by adding nearly 7,000 jobs financed by a $1.78 billion Congressional appropriation under the National Fire Plan. A13

Smoke from several brush fires caused an 18-vehicle pileup on Interstate 4 between Orlando and Tampa, Fla., that killed one person and injured 10, officials said. A13

Sex Offenders Must Post Signs
A Texas judge, J. Manuel Banales, is standing by his order that several registered sex offenders in Corpus Christi must post signs on their homes and automobiles warning the public of their crimes, even though one of the criminals attempted suicide, two were evicted from their homes, several had their property vandalized and one offender's father had his life threatened. A10

Broadening of 'Living Wage'
The City Council of Santa Monica, Calif., has passed an ordinance requiring that businesses with annual revenue of $5 million or more in the coastal and downtown tourism areas pay workers at least $10.50 an hour beginning in July 2002. It is the first such living-wage ordinance in the nation to be applied to businesses other than city contractors, companies leasing city land or those receiving economic development money. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Sharpton Says He'll Begin Jailhouse Hunger Strike
The Rev. Al Sharpton, sentenced to 90 days for trespassing during a protest at the naval bombing range on Vieques, in Puerto Rico, said in a jail interview that he would begin a hunger strike today. He also spoke bitterly about the circumstances of his federal trial in San Juan, but indicated he was being treated fairly well in the Brooklyn detention center where he is now being held, except for what he called a few indignities. B1 

Killings Linked to Apartments
Bernard Perez, 20, a convicted robber released from prison on parole last year, was charged with committing two murders so that he could seize the victims' apartments in a public housing complex in northern Manhattan, the police said. B3

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

On Sex, the Same Language
A comparison of studies on sexual behavior in the United States and France found a few intriguing differences between the two cultures, but in most areas of sexuality the distinctions were negligible. F1

Fireball Over the Pacific
American space and ground sensors that monitor the globe for nuclear blasts detected the explosion of a meteoroid several hundred miles southwest of Los Angeles last month that had nearly the force of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima. F4

Health & Fitness F7

ARTS E1-8

Strong Opening for 'Pearl'
"Pearl Harbor," which took a pounding from most critics, nevertheless was on track for a four-day holiday weekend gross of $75.1 million, second only to the $90.2 million opening of "The Lost World: Jurassic Park," Memorial Day weekend 1997. E1

Dispute Over a Sequel
A French-language sequel to Victor Hugo's masterpiece "Les Miserables" has Hugo's great-great grandchildren up in arms, and they even want the book, "Cosette or the Time of Illusions," banned. E1

SPORTS D1-8
Venus Williams Upset
Barbara Schett beat the reigning Wimbledon, United States Open and Olympics champion, 6-4, 6-4, in the first round of the French Open. D1

OBITUARIES C13

Joe Moakley
The Democratic congressman from Massachusetts, who was serving his 15th two-year term, was 74. C13

Victor Kiam
The man who said he liked Remington razors so much that he bought the company, and who also bought the New England Patriots, was 74. C13

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Lucent Deal Said to Be Near
Negotiations continued as Alcatel of France put the final touches on its plan to buy Lucent Technologies for about $32 billion, executives close to the talks said. The boards of both companies plan to vote on the transaction today, the executives said, and the companies hope to announce a deal by tomorrow. C1

Deciding Fate of Gas Monopoly
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is to decide this week whether to let Gazprom, the natural gas monopoly and Russia's most valuable company, sink further into decay or shake it up with new management. C1

An Old Idea for New Cars
G.M. is bringing back an idea it last tried in 1981: an engine that shuts down some of its cylinders when they are not needed, to save fuel. C1

Aviation Consulting Alliance
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Hewlett-Packard said they had formed an alliance to provide technology consulting services to airlines, airports and other businesses in the aviation industry. C4

The Value of Stock Advice
Following the recommendations of major Wall Street firms would hardly have been profitable over the last four years and could have been quite costly, according to Investars.com, a subscription service that developed a method of measuring the value of the advice of brokerage firms. C4

Business Digest C1

FASHION B8

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Hard questions on nuclear power; the looting of Congo.
Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (93%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); POLITICS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); RIOTS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ESPIONAGE (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (68%); SLAVERY (68%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (68%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); RESORTS (65%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (63%); CORRUPTION (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (77%) SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



780 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Study Questions Advice From Brokerage Firms
In a new study, Investars.com, a subscription service that developed a method of measuring the value of advice from brokerage firms, said that following the recommendations of the major Wall Street firms would not have been very profitable over the last four years -- and could have been quite costly.
 Since the beginning of 1997, only four of the biggest firms have had a positive overall return on the ratings they published on individual stocks, according to Investars. The best results were recorded by Credit Suisse First Boston, which had a net gain of 7.6 percent over four years, while the worst, by the Robertson Stephens unit of FleetBoston Financial, had an overall net loss of more than 36 percent. Market Place. Page C4. 

Taiwan's PC Makers Shift to China
Taiwan's computer manufacturers, in search of cheaper labor and low-cost infrastructure, have begun migrating to China. This could put the United States in an odd position: its main supplier of PC's and other information-technology gear will be its main strategic adversary. Given the recent rancor between Beijing and Washington, that prospect unsettles some executives. A1.

Comair Strike May Change Industry
A walkout by pilots at a regional carrier based in Cincinnati that is now entering its 10th week could have a lasting impact on the industry. The pilots and management of Comair -- which is owned by Delta Air Lines and flies as Delta Connection -- are at odds over the smaller jets that have been revolutionizing the regional airline industry. Pilots say they want pay, work rules and retirement packages closer to what their counterparts at the major airlines receive. Comair counters that such a leap would shatter the economics of the industry, forcing airlines to slow the introduction of regional jets. A1.

Coke Recalls Drink in Europe
Coca-Cola said it had recalled 700,000 bottles of a citrus-flavored drink, Fanta Pomelo, recently introduced in Belgium, after finding that the drink's color and taste had been affected by exposure to light. C11.

Airline Consulting Venture Formed
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Hewlett-Packard announced that they had formed an alliance to provide technology consulting services to airlines, airports and other concerns in the aviation industry. C4.

U.S. Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States are open today; they were closed yesterday in observance of Memorial Day. Stocks in Europe and Asia were mixed in light trading. London markets were closed because of a banking holiday. Japan's Nikkei 225 lost 28.15 points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,737.77. The Nikkei moved lower on concerns over the size of bad loans held by Japanese banks. C8.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Paying More for Gas"At $1.72 a gallon in the week leading up to the Memorial Day weekend, the average U.S. price of regular gasoline was 15 cents higher than at this time last year. Drivers in the West and the North-Central states are paying the most, while those in the South are paying the least. Highest average prices a gallonCALIFORNIA: $2.02HAWAII: $2.01MICHIGAN: $1.90N. DAKOTA: $1.89ILLINOIS: $1.88 Lowest average prices a gallonLOUISIANA: $1.57MISSISSIPPI: $1.56ALABAMA: $1.56S. CAROLINA: $1.52GEORGIA: $1.49 Graph tracks the weekly price of a gallon of regular gasoline from 2000-2001.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; AAA; Oil Price Information Service) Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income from October 2000- March 2001. April figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Expected +0.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (87%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (69%); SOFT DRINKS (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (56%); MESABA AVIATION INC (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); KO (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%) OHIO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



781 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Hard Questions on Nuclear Power 

 BODY:
After decades in the doghouse because of environmental, safety and cost concerns, nuclear power is enjoying a renaissance of expectations. The Bush administration's new energy plan gives a place of prominence to nuclear power as a clean and efficient energy source, and the industry itself is bubbling with new hopes and plans. In truth, there are good reasons to take a fresh look at this much-maligned source of energy that has been stalled in this country for the past three decades. But it is worrisome that the administration seems to have endorsed a nuclear resurgence with little sustained analysis of its pluses and minuses. 
 As an article by Katharine Seelye in The Times revealed last week, nuclear energy was barely in the consciousness of the drill-centric energy team at the White House until a delegation of nuclear industry executives sought a chance to make their pitch and succeeded so well that Vice President Dick Cheney almost immediately started touting the virtues of nuclear energy. A case can be made for greater exploitation of nuclear power in this country, but before the nation plunges too far down this path the administration will need to address some critical questions. 
 The rationale for a reassessment comes partly from the performance of the industry itself, and partly from changed circumstances in the environment in which it must operate. By most accounts, the industry has learned to operate its plants more safely and efficiently than in the years leading up to the traumatic near-tragedy at Three Mile Island. American nuclear plants are operating with much greater reliability and many fewer minor incidents. Moreover, the industry is consolidating, with plants being purchased and operated by companies that have more expertise than some of the previous operators. So there is reason to trust the industry a bit more than in past decades.
Meanwhile, external events are increasing the appeal of nuclear power. One is the rising concern over global warming, which is caused primarily by the emission of carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels. Nuclear power plants emit no carbon dioxide, thus to the extent they can replace plants burning coal, oil or natural gas they can be considered a plus. Nuclear power can also contribute to the diversity of the nation's energy supplies. Nuclear plants already supply some 20 percent of the electricity generated in this country, compared with fossil fuel contributions of 52 percent for coal, 16 percent for natural gas and 3 percent for oil. But the great majority of all new power plants are being built to burn natural gas, the cleanest of the fossil fuels, making utilities and consumers vulnerable to price spikes when supplies become tight as they have this year.
President Bush's energy plan offers a wide range of steps to accelerate the use of nuclear power. But before Congress and the regulatory agencies proceed too far, some crucial questions require answers.
Impact on global warming: If this is the main reason for turning to nuclear power, the proponents will need to do a much better job of spelling out just how far nuclear power would have to spread to make a real dent in the problem. Nuclear power is used almost exclusively to generate electricity, thus it cannot reduce the nation's reliance on imported oil to power transportation systems. Nuclear fuel will primarily be substituting for natural gas -- the least of the carbon dioxide emitters -- as the clean fuel to which electric utilities turn. Moreover, fossil fuels are burned in mining and preparing nuclear fuels and in building reactors, so even nuclear energy is not entirely free of greenhouse gases. Some analyses suggest that to make a real impact in slowing global warming, nuclear power plants would need to spread widely around the world, a prospect that brings new challenges of its own.
Weapons risks: Expansion of nuclear power in this country poses no weapons danger, but the spread of nuclear plants into other countries could pose a risk. The uranium fuel for nuclear power plants is not generally considered of high enough grade to be used in weapons. But as more and more technicians around the world learn the skills of working with nuclear materials, and as governments become engaged in procuring nuclear technologies, there is a danger that civilian nuclear programs could serve as a cover for clandestine weapons activities. That is why, for example, the United States is angry that Russia is helping Iran build a nuclear power plant. Even though Iran has pledged to abide by nonproliferation treaties and allow international inspections of the plant, there is grave concern that it will find a way to build weapons. Increasing the use of nuclear power in countries that already have either the bomb or nuclear power plants is not much of a danger. Spreading nuclear power to additional countries might be. 
Waste disposal: In the political world, the lack of a proven method to store spent fuel from nuclear reactors for the tens of thousands of years the material remains radioactive has long been considered the Achilles' heel of the nuclear industry. In truth, spent fuel has been stored safely for decades in pools at the sites of nuclear power plants with no adverse effect. The problem is, the storage pools are filling up and critics are loath to expand nuclear power with no clear idea where to store the waste. The Bush administration is considering a site at Yucca Mountain in Nevada that has been studied for years, and it has proposed a new look at reprocessing the fuel to remove the long-lived plutonium for reuse as reactor fuel. That could greatly ease the storage problem here but might encourage wider use of reprocessed materials abroad, increasing the risk of weapons-grade plutonium's falling into the wrong hands.
Reactor safety: The safety problem in conventional nuclear plants is that, if things start to go wrong, emergency cooling systems and human operators have to act correctly to prevent a catastrophic meltdown. That makes nuclear power a cruel and unforgiving technology that cannot tolerate equipment failures or human mistakes. But the industry is exploring new technologies that would not lead to meltdown even in a worst-case malfunction, making them inherently safer and cheaper to build and operate. This is where the administration and the industry should be focusing their efforts -- to develop demonstrably safer power plants. That would ease many of the concerns provoked by the current generation of nuclear reactors.
Economics: No matter what else is done to make nuclear power more attractive, the industry will make little headway unless it can overcome the high capital costs that brought it to a halt in recent decades. Some relief should come from the advance approval of standardized designs, allowing plants to be built more quickly and cheaply than in past years when each plant had a customized design. But Congress will need to take a close look at whether it should renew one of the industry's economic underpinnings -- the so-called Price-Anderson Act that limits the liability of nuclear companies in the event of an accident. If the industry is as safe as it says, it may not need such subsidized protection. On the other hand, eliminating the liability protection might scare off investors for good.
Nuclear power has been stalled for so long in the United States that it is surprising to see it back in the spotlight. There may be a case for extending the licenses of existing plants, as has already happened in several cases, or for building new plants on existing nuclear sites where the risks are already understood. But the case has not yet been made for truly large-scale expansion of nuclear power, in this country or around the globe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); GLOBAL WARMING (85%); GREENHOUSE GASES (85%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) ATOMIC ENERGY; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; EDITORIALS; NUCLEAR WASTES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



782 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: For Crucial California Trip, Bush Calibrates How Best to Handle State's Energy Crisis 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 28 

 BODY:
Days after he suffered the biggest political setback of his four-month-old presidency and then won the tax cut that he staked his campaign upon, President Bush traveled tonight to California, carefully calibrating how to deal with the state's energy crisis.
 After Memorial Day celebrations in Washington and Mesa, Ariz., Mr. Bush began his first visit as president to the most populous state, which he lost by roughly 12 percentage points in November's election. The visit seems likely to showcase the clash between two very different energy strategies and political strategies. 
 Mr. Bush will meet briefly on Tuesday with Gov. Gray Davis, who will insist, as he did again today, that the federal government impose price caps on wholesale electric power.
The White House says Mr. Bush will refuse, again. He will argue that such caps would only discourage increased production of electric power. "We think that's a mistake," Vice President Dick Cheney said on Friday, talking about why he rejected those options when he prepared the energy policy the administration made public 10 days ago.
But Mr. Bush knows that how he handles the California energy crisis could prove critical to his political fortunes, especially now that his party's loss of control in the Senate seems bound to slow or derail passage of major elements of his energy plan.
Moreover, the president can no longer argue that the best cure for high energy prices is a tax cut, because that is now legislative history. As one of his aides said this weekend, after Congress approved the $1.35 trillion tax cut that will be phased in over the next 10 years, "we will have to turn now to the other arguments."
Most of those arguments involve urging the rest of the country not to follow California in a partial deregulation of the market, with disastrous results. 
Repeatedly Mr. Bush has chastised California's politicians, and by implication Mr. Davis himself, for ignoring politically unpalatable choices to avert the state's power-generating crisis. Ten days ago, standing in front of a hydroelectric plant in Pennsylvania, Mr. Bush used the state as Exhibit A for his argument about what happens when population rises, when over-regulation freezes the construction of new power plants and the stringing of new transmission lines, and when politicians fail to plan for the long term.
"The problems in California shows that you cannot conserve your way to energy independence," Mr. Bush said then.
At the same time, his aides were pointing to polls showing Mr. Davis's approval ratings plunging. They did not mention that Mr. Bush's ratings in the state were hardly any better. A series of recent polls show that roughly two-thirds of Californians believe Mr. Bush should be doing far more to help the state, though it is unclear exactly what kind of help they have in mind.
So Mr. Bush's aides have been struggling for days to choreograph the two-day visit here, trying to find ways to differ with Mr. Davis without seeming callous about the problem or in conflict with the state.
The betting is that Mr. Bush will focus on long-term solutions, in contrast to Mr. Davis's call for the quicker fix of price caps.
The effort started today. Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham issued an order of chiefly symbolic importance, saying his department would move quickly to determine whether investors were interested in financing and co-owning a new transmission line that could bring more power to the state.
"The level of interest will be a factor in the decision to build the line later this year," the Energy Department said. It said that it would proceed with studies of how the land could be acquired, by eminent domain if necessary, and that it would speed ahead with environmental reviews.
But Mr. Abraham left wide open the question of whether Washington would go ahead with the project even if no private financing was available. 
"The Bush administration is taking a leadership role in addressing a long-neglected problem in California's electricity transmission system," Mr. Abraham said. "California's electricity problems developed over a period of years and cannot be solved overnight. However, we can move now on actions that will help avert the same types of problems from recurring year after year."
The statement was clearly intended as a prelude to the meeting with Mr. Davis, which will be closed to the press. So will a meeting with energy entrepreneurs. (Mr. Bush passed on Mr. Davis's suggestion of a forum with small-business owners and residents who have seen the lights go out.)
Few expect Mr. Bush or Mr. Davis to change his mind about energy caps after their meeting.
But for Mr. Bush it will not all be tough love. On Tuesday morning Mr. Bush is scheduled to travel to Camp Pendleton to repeat his call for the military and other federal users of power in California to flip off their switches whenever possible. But given his own comments, and Mr. Cheney's, about the limited utility of conservation, that order could strike some Californians as a little hollow.
Later he will give a trade speech in Los Angeles, underscoring the message that if California hopes to remain the world's greatest exporter of high technology -- if it were a nation, California would be the world's sixth-largest economy -- it must find new ways to produce and deliver electricity.
Already, leading Silicon Valley companies are threatening to build their next-generation chip fabrication plants elsewhere, probably in Texas, which has a surplus of generating capacity, a move that would further undermine Mr. Davis's stewardship.
In fact, Mr. Bush's Texas roots will never be far from the political battlefield here. Mr. Davis has accused Texas energy companies of profiteering at California's expense. To press the case, he has hired two political operatives from the Clinton White House, Marc D. Fabiani and Chris Lehane, who are being paid tens of thousands of dollars a month to make the case for price caps.
California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, also a Democrat, suggested to The Wall Street Journal last week that some time in jail would be the best way to deal with one of Mr. Bush's biggest supporters -- Kenneth Lay, who heads the Enron Corporation and has sought to influence the selection of members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The comments may have been partly facetious, but they were not interpreted that way here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (69%); APPROVALS (64%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001 



783 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Poetry Soaked In the Personal And Political 

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
Eileen Myles has been called "the last of the New York School poets," the seal on a lineage that began with the personalized, speech-based poetry of Frank O'Hara. Her writing also has roots in the visionary, intensely political work of the Beats. At 50, she is a cult figure to a generation of young, post-punk female writer-performers who are creating a niche for poetry in the better-known world of pop music and, in the process, forming a new literary avant-garde.
 If Ms. Myles's name is unknown to many readers, that's no surprise. As often as not her work turns up in fugitive journals like Shiny, Cuz and Queer 13. All her books have been handled by maverick small presses. She has no university affiliation nor, for that matter, salaried job of any kind, though she is a dynamo of freelance activity. 
 She recently published her first novel, a picaresque, unsentimentally heartbreaking roman a clef titled "Cool for You." A new book of poetry, her eighth, is due out later this year. She teaches, reads and performs. And she writes about art for The Village Voice and Art in America. A few years ago she toured the country in a minivan with the all-female "word band," Sister Spit, performing in bars and galleries and on college campuses. 
Ms. Myles is a quick, free-ranging talker. Her speech, like her writing, is peppered with sudden shifts in direction and dazzlingly phrased ideas. Her delivery retains the flattened A of her native Boston, and her novel, released by Soft Skull Press, is a barely fictionalized account of her early years there.
"My parents were working-class children of immigrants," she recently said over coffee in the East Village. "My father delivered mail to the Harvard dorms." He died in an accident when Ms. Myles was 11. "I grew up in Catholic schools in Arlington and went to the University of Massachusetts in Boston, so I was a total townie and very aware of it."
Poetry was in the picture from the start. She describes her mother (Polish by descent) and father (Irish) as "readers and singers." In school, she was required to memorize and recite poems. And there was a Harvard trickledown. Her Aunt Anne worked as a maid in the dormitories in the 1950's and 60's and brought home books left behind by students at the end of the year.
Family members, teachers and classmates come and go in the novel, which shifts restlessly between childhood and adulthood, tragedy and farce. At its center is the figure of Ms. Myles's grandmother, who died in a state insane asylum, a woman whom Ms. Myles barely knew but feared she might become. The book begins with a dedication to her and circles around to her in its final paragraph: "My grandmother's name was Nellie Riordan Myles. She was born in Ireland, and she died in Massachusetts in 1957. Her body was received by the ground."
Ms. Myles left Massachusetts for New York in 1974. She discovered the St. Marks Poetry Project in the East Village and showed up there for workshops and readings almost every night for 10 years.
"It was dedicated to the idea of the working artist," she said. "You could just walk in, sit down and take a class. It was all free." She became its director, briefly, in the 1980's, and she still reads there regularly.
She made friends, among them Allen Ginsberg, her role model as an activist-poet. And like many "indie" writers, she scrambled to make a living. Art criticism brought in a little cash. She worked briefly as a caretaker for the poet James Schuyler, an influential New York School link. She took adjunct teaching gigs at colleges but more often held classes privately, finding students through word of mouth or by posting fliers.
Her publishing history has a similar ad hoc pattern. "My books weren't so much self-published as friend-published," is how she put it. "It was like everybody published the person next to them." She also did her own distribution. "So many people end up throwing their books under the bed, and I just found that too depressing. I felt better going out there and doing it myself, which was, of course, often humiliating."
Both her poetry and a 1994 collection of short stories, "Chelsea Girls," were highly autobiographical. "I wanted to make a poetic documentary of my life," she said. "There was something about my particular life -- as a female, as a person prone to drug and alcohol abuse, as a lesbian -- that I sensed was endangered. I had a feeling nobody would know what it was like if I didn't tell it."
The way she told it was in a stripped-down vernacular style. "When I teach," Ms. Myles said, "I talk about writing in terms of running to catch a train. You start with too much. The idea is to let yourself drop as much as you need to drop to get on board. Eventually you might have to let go of all of it, and even then you might not get on. But at least you know where you're going."
The idea of movement, social and personal, runs through Ms. Myles's thinking about art. She is, for example, skeptical of the popular image of the artist as "a middle-class person who gets downwardly mobile for a few years, to experiment and get sort of earthy, and then becomes a success," a notion of dues-paying that is, she said, "very threatening if you come from a lower-class background and have always been on the edge economically."
She is also acutely aware of how social status and language intersect. "You know so much about people from the second they open their mouths," she said. "Right away you might know you want to keep them out. So when I write, I want to keep changing the locks, saying the 'wrong' thing when I'm doing the right thing. That's why I can't stop using dirty words."
Because she sees her own experiences as basically typical rather than unique, she feels no qualms about the personal content of her work. And she feels that all writing contributes to building a community of the spirit, "a tribal reality," as she puts it.
Her own tribe is made up both of literary forebears and a group of new artists who are blending poetry, art and performance, some of whom are part of what Ann Powers, music critic for The New York Times, has referred to "an increasingly borderless lesbian music scene."
"There's this huge girls' art movement going on," Ms. Myles said, "straight girls and gay girls together. The energy has been building for years. It reminds me of the explosion of rock 'n' roll in the 60's." Among other things, she points to the proliferation of poetry-literate female bands, like the Butchies, Cat Power and Le Tigre, which have only recently begun to get mainstream recognition.
She is more than just an older citizen in this movement. She is one of its heroes, as she learned when she got a call in 1997 from the poet Michelle Tea, a leader of Sister Spit. Ms. Myles still performs with the group, though another road trip seems unlikely, for lack of time. She just wrapped up a national book tour for "Cool for You." She is organizing a series of multimedia readings, involving poetry and rock, at the Hallwalls Contemporary Art Center in Buffalo. She has two more novels in progress. 
Writing, in short, is a total commitment, a full-time job. "Ted Berrigan, who was an early teacher for me, and a good one because he was a Catholic, would always talk about poets in terms of taking their final vows. There's a sense of getting deeper and deeper into this thing if you let it be as important as it could be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The poet Eileen Myles has published her first novel, "Cool for You." (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Eileen Myles writes about growing up in working-class Boston. (pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POETRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POP & ROCK (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); MUSIC (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); IMMIGRATION (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; MYLES, EILEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: COOL FOR YOU (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



784 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO SLIDES. The euro fell as rising prices in Italy fueled concern that inflation will prevent the European Central Bank from lowering interest rates. In New York, the euro settled at 85.57 cents, down from 85.97 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); TRENDS (85%) PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE; ITALY

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



785 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Are Confident Even With Job Fears 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose in May as Americans refused to let an eroding job market cloud their expectations that the economy would pick up, a survey by the Conference Board indicated today.
 The index of the Conference Board, a business research group, based on a sampling of 5,000 households nationwide, rose to 115.5 in May from 109.9 -- suggesting that people see an improved outlook for the economy six months from now. 
 While survey participants were concerned that jobs were hard to find, they did not pull back on plans to buy appliances, cars and homes, the figures showed. 
A separate report from the Commerce Department found that consumer spending rose in April, even with the slowest gain in incomes in five months. Spending accounts for two-thirds of the economy.
"The consumer has been pretty resilient to any of the ill winds of layoff announcements and higher unemployment," said Richard Yamarone, senior economist with Argus Research in New York.
The Conference Board's expectations index rose to 86.8 in May, the highest since December, from 79.1 in April. The view of current conditions also improved, with the present-situation index rising to 158.6 in May from 156 in April.
This more favorable view of the economy evolved amid a sense that jobs had become less secure. The share of consumers seeing jobs as plentiful fell to 39.5 percent in May, the lowest since November 1997. The share seeing jobs as not so plentiful rose. The share viewing jobs as hard to obtain rose to 14.7 percent in May, the highest since October 1998.
The Conference Board's survey also detected a feeling that employment might improve. The share of people expecting more jobs to be available in six months rose to 13.8 percent, the highest since December, from 12.3 percent in April. Fewer expected a shrinking job pool, and two-thirds foresaw no change.
Regarding spending plans, the share of respondents planning to buy a car rose to 9.5 percent from 7.7 percent in April. The share planning to buy a major appliance rose to 30.2 percent from 29.8 percent in April. Of those planning to buy a house, the share was unchanged at 3.6 percent. "Nowhere are there indications that consumers will curtail their spending," said Lynn Franco, a Conference Board economist in New York.
Consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in April after increasing 0.2 percent a month earlier, the Commerce Department said. Personal income grew 0.3 percent, the slowest since November. The April spending increase was the largest since a 1.1 percent rise in January.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Personal Income and SpendingBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rates. IncomeApril: $8,622.6Change from March: +0.3% ConsumptionApril: 7,035.9Change from March: +0.4 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (77%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



786 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Turkey's Choice: European Union or the Death Penalty 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, May 29 

 BODY:
On some days, after he was beaten and raw sewage was pumped into his darkened cell in a former morgue, Celalettin Can would cower on the putrid floor and pray for the hangman to call his name.
 "Death is not the most difficult thing," said Mr. Can, who said he had been repeatedly tortured while awaiting execution for membership in a left-wing terrorist group. "Within the psychology of being tortured, death becomes a secondary fear. Sometimes you pray for death. Staying alive is the hardest thing." 
 Mr. Can, 45, escaped the gallows when his sentence was reduced for procedural reasons. Two years ago, after 19 years on death row, he was released into a twilight existence in which he has no legal rights and can be returned to prison for the most minor offense.
The death penalty remains on the books in Turkey, though no one has been executed since 1984 as successive governments observe a self-imposed moratorium. But the debate over whether to abolish it is intensifying, and the outcome will play a decisive role in determining whether Turkey joins the European Union.
Most European countries have abolished the death penalty, and the European Union requires members to ban it.
In the United States, one of 87 countries still using it for common crimes, the debate is framed by moral arguments about inequalities and injustices in application.
In Turkey the roots of the dispute are political: the politics of the prisoners themselves, of Turkey's European Union candidacy, of right-wing nationalists who say they want a unified country and of progressives who say they want a democratic one.
A parliamentary commission began debate last week on 51 proposed constitutional amendments needed for Turkey to join the European Union. They cover volatile matters like reducing the military's political role and granting cultural rights to the Kurdish ethnic minority. 
Though it is less sweeping in terms of remaking Turkey, the death penalty could turn out to be the sticking point. As a price for the coveted European Union membership, the governing coalition agreed grudgingly to abolish the death penalty. But no date was set, and the political will to do so has been questioned.
The opposition of the coalition's right-wing partner, the Nationalist Action Party, could block the reform package. The party's leaders openly object to ending the death penalty for crimes against the state, a category that embraces a wide spectrum of political activity.
Roughly half of the 47 people now on death row were convicted of political crimes, according to human rights advocates. A handful were members of right-wing groups, but most either supported the rebels who seek a separate state for Turkey's roughly 12 million Kurds or were part of left-wing organizations that advocate overthrowing the state or are viewed with great suspicion by the political and military elite.
"We consider there are some risks in abolishing the death penalty for crimes committed against the state and nation," Sevket Bulent Yahnici, deputy chairman of the Nationalist Action Party, said in an interview. "Within the party we have concerns about abolishing the death penalty completely."
Party leaders argue that ending the death penalty would allow Abdullah Ocalan, the Kurdish rebel leader sentenced to death for treason in 1999, to go unpunished, eliminating a deterrent to other separatist groups.
Opposition also comes from within the military and the police, which have both suffered heavy casualties from clashes with Kurdish rebels and left-wing extremists.
"We do not accept any good will for those who want to divide this country and pull down our flag," said Mehmet Guner, director of an organization for families of soldiers and police officers killed in the line of duty. "Ending capital punishment should not be a precondition to enter the European Union. If they like us, they better accept us the way we are."
But rights advocates and international organizations see the opportunity to end the death penalty as an important step in cleaning up broader problems in a country where torture remains prevalent and the justice system is regarded as often arbitrary and politically tainted.
Abolishing the death penalty is also supported by the leading business organization, the Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association. The group issued a 10-point blueprint for reform last week that included canceling capital punishment except in times of war.
Capital cases are heard by panels of three judges, and defendants can be convicted and sentenced to death by majority vote. Convictions are reviewed by the Supreme Court and must be ratified by Parliament before an execution is carried out. Parliament has not acted on a case since 1984, when two political prisoners were executed.
Political trials occur in state security courts where acquittals are rare. Eren Keskin, director of the Istanbul chapter of the national Human Rights Association, said she has not seen an acquittal in a political case in 17 years as a defense lawyer.
"Even when the testimony comes from torture, with medical reports proving the torture, no one is acquitted," she said in an interview.
Criticism of the death penalty comes from less predictable quarters, too. Nejat Oztaskent, a retired army colonel who served as a military prosecutor and a senior judge for 45 years, said too many defendants were sentenced to death for political beliefs, without sufficient evidence or reliable witnesses.
"It is true murder to give capital punishment for political reasons," Mr. Oztaskent said in an interview. "How can you condemn someone to death on transitory political terms that you create?"
Turkey has had some notable executions. Adnan Menderes, a former prime minister, was hanged in 1961 after a military coup. And Mr. Ocalan's death sentence has drawn sharp warnings from European human rights courts and organizations that he must not be executed.
The government recognizes the danger swirling around Mr. Ocalan's sentence and seems unlikely to execute him or anyone else so long as its European Union membership hangs in the balance.
Still, Turkey's human rights record is unflattering, and critics contend that executions are carried out regularly, not at the prison gallows but through extrajudicial killings by the police and paramilitary groups of people who have not been arrested or convicted.
"Abolishing the death penalty would not solve the problem," Bakir Caglar, a law professor at Istanbul University who defended the government in the European Court of Human Rights for seven years before resigning, said in an interview.
Turkey has proven deaf to criticism of its rights record in the past, but the prospect of closer economic, military and cultural ties with Europe may prove enough to persuade the politicians to enact many changes, including erasing the death penalty from the books.
Until then, the march goes on, even if the official executions do not. Earlier this month, an appeals court upheld the death sentences of 31 Islamic extremists convicted of inciting a crowd to set a fire that killed 37 intellectuals attending a conference in the Turkish town of Sivas in 1993.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Celalettin Can, who spent 19 years on death row until his conditional release two years ago, on a rooftop near Bayrampasa Prison in Istanbul. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); TORTURE (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); POLITICS (86%); CAPITAL CRIMES (76%); SENTENCING (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (62%); TERRORISM (56%); ETHNICITY (50%) CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; KURDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) TURKEY (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



787 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Venture Capital Sees Treasure In Europe; 
But the Welcome for Silicon Valley Is Not Always Friendly Overseas

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, May 29 

 BODY:
When Charles Muirhead, then a 20-year-old British entrepreneur, was raising money for his first company, a software development firm, in 1996, he tried in vain to catch the ear of prominent venture capital firms in Silicon Valley.
 The dismissals became routine. "Why bother investing in Europe when there's too much on our own doorstep?" Mr. Muirhead recalled being told over and over again, as he sought $430,000 for his company, Orchestream. 
 Mr. Muirhead, who has since taken the company public and started two others, said he doubted that he would have the same problem today. 
Now that the doorsteps of American venture capital firms are littered with dot-com failures, many of those firms are seeking opportunities abroad. Increasingly, they are turning to Europe, which they consider an underdeveloped market that has avoided the worst of the Internet boom and bust.
"Europe reminds me of Silicon Valley in the early 80's," said John Fisher, managing director of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, who moved to London from Redwood City, Calif., in February to open his firm's European office. "The opportunities in Europe are better than they are in the U.S."
At the same time, however, the hurdles are higher, say analysts and executives in Europe, and Americans who turn up in Europe expecting to relive the fat times of the 1990's are likely to be disillusioned. Venture capital is a business that relies on personal relationships and well-honed instincts, they added, and Americans moving to London or Paris or Frankfurt have had difficulty developing both.
"A lot of American venture capitalists flocking to Europe will be sorely disappointed," said Jesse Reyes, vice president of Venture Economics, a unit of Thomson Financial. "There are opportunities, but there are also a lot of costs. Just because Europe is a less mature market doesn't make it a slam- dunk."
Douglas Brown, the chief executive of Advent International, learned that lesson six years ago, when Advent, which is based in Boston, became one of the first American venture capital firms to open an office in London.
Advent first tried to reproduce a strategy that had long generated half the firm's investment ideas -- cold-calling executives at cutting-edge technology companies, and mining them for leads, Mr. Brown said. But he found that European executives were wary of sharing ideas with strangers, so the strategy cost far more to execute and generated far fewer ideas than expected. 
Americans are not the only people to experience this. Stan Bolland, who founded Element 14, a British microchip-design firm, was also frustrated by a European tendency to close ranks. "When we talk to an American company about a new technology, they tell us what they really think," he said. "Europe isn't like that. When we talk to large wireless companies, we get no input from them. They take notes, but they won't engage."
Despite such tales, some American firms are pressing ahead in Europe, drawn by the potential of budding wireless technologies, a rich vein of untapped entrepreneurs like Mr. Muirhead and a softening of government regulations that have long inhibited venture investing here.
And there appears to be room to grow. Compared with the United States, the amount of money flowing into European venture capital is tiny. About $22 billion was earmarked for start-up financing in 2000, less than one-fourth the $92.3 billion raised by American funds, according to Venture Economics. And even though the market in the United States is more mature, it is still growing faster. Since 1998, the amount of money raised in America has more than tripled, compared with a twofold increase in Europe.
Over the last year, Benchmark Capital and Accel Partners have opened offices in London, joining other recent arrivals like Atlas Venture and the Texas Pacific Group, a buyout firm that for the first time is raising money to invest solely in European start-up ventures.
"Everyone was too rich and happy and lazy in Silicon Valley," said George Coelho, who left Menlo Park, Calif., a year ago to open Benchmark's office in London. Even so, cutting-edge European companies like Bookham Technology and Baltimore Technologies were not lost on Mr. Coelho and his colleagues. In the back of their minds, echoed the question: "How do we get a piece of that?" Mr. Coelho said.
Despite the rough times at home, Venture Economics said that American funds have $35 billion in venture capital available to invest -- three times that of European firms.
But while investments in venture capital continued to fall through the first quarter of 2001, roughly halving in both the United States and Europe, there are signs that European investors are faring better than their American counterparts.
In the fourth quarter of 2000, for instance, returns to venture capital limited partners in the United States dipped into negative territory for the first time since 1998, data from Venture Economics shows. But the decline in Europe is expected to be less severe, said Mr. Reyes, the Venture Economics vice president, although figures for the region will not be released until June.
"You won't see the shakeout in the European V.C. community that you are seeing in the U.S.," Mr. Reyes said. "The European market didn't get as inflated so the fall will be mitigated somewhat."
Moreover, the equity markets in Europe have remained friendlier to new issues than have American stock markets, providing an important means for venture capital firms to recoup some of their investment. In the first quarter of 2001, 39 companies went public in Europe, for a total value of $8.9 billion, according to Tornado Insider, a Dutch company that tracks venture capital investment across Europe. Though that number is down sharply from the 146 initial public offerings in the period a year earlier, it exceeds the 18 companies that went public in the United States in the first quarter of this year. Those 18 companies raised a combined $8.2 billion.
In April alone, eight technology-related companies appeared on European markets, rising 44 percent on average in their first month. By contrast, there were no new high-technology stocks in the United States that month, said Tim Weeks, who oversees new-equity sales for Tornado Insider.
The rush by Americans to take advantage of these opportunities has fanned resentment among Europeans, who are eager to break from America's high-tech shadow.
"We like to know what's going on in Silicon Valley," said Claire Ruskin, a 23-year veteran with Cambridge Consultants Ltd., a firm in Cambridge, England, that works with engineers to develop wireless technologies. "But are we trying to copy it? No."
Europeans like Mrs. Ruskin paint American entrepreneurs as mercenaries who eagerly auction themselves to the highest bidder. They say American venture capitalists are too pushy and seek to exercise too much control over their investments.
Mr. Fisher of Draper Fisher plays down any rivalry. "We're not here to steal their deals," he said. "We're here to collaborate."
Only recently, it would have been unthinkable for Europe to attract this kind of attention. For years, cultural biases and conservative investors branded the region an entrepreneurial wasteland.
Jerome Mol, chairman and chief executive of Gorilla Park, a Dutch "incubator firm" that advises and finances entrepreneurs, recalled the difficulty he encountered in 1987, when he began his first company, Prolin Automation, a Dutch software development firm that he later sold to Hewlett-Packard.
"French companies wouldn't buy Germany software," Mr. Mol said. "And no one would buy software from the Netherlands."
Since then, Europeans have put aside nationalistic differences and accepted the role that innovative companies can play in driving economic growth.
Two years ago, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain criticized the low level of venture capital investing in his country and set the stage for change. Since then, his government has cut capital-gains taxes, encouraged more widespread use of employee option plans and rewritten regulations to encourage fund managers to make more risky investments.
In Continental Europe, progress has been slower. Lobbying groups have had little success in trying to establish uniform patent laws and reduce taxes on stock options, said Javier Echarri, secretary general of the European Venture Capital Association.
"The European Commission has extended recommendations for countries to ease the red tape," he said, referring to the executive arm of the European Union. "They are conscious of the problem, but haven't moved fast enough."
Still, Europeans are slowly warming to the idea of venture capital. British and European pension funds now allocate close to 1 percent of their $1.4 trillion in assets to venture capital, twice as much as a year ago, according to estimates by Venture Economics. Even though that is still a small fraction of the 5 percent of the $7.5 trillion in assets that United States pension funds direct to the sector, the increase represents an important cultural shift, analysts say.
New European equity markets, meanwhile, have provided venture capitalists with an "exit strategy" -- an easy and usually profitable way to sell their stakes in companies they have helped to nurture -- that did not exist before. And changes to corporate laws in countries like Germany are allowing corporations to unwind longstanding crossholdings of shares. This has helped to set off a wave of merger activity in recent years, displacing thousands of executives who would have otherwise spent their entire careers with one or two firms.
After 15 years working for big pharmaceutical companies and watching colleagues be fired or laid off after acquisitions, Gearoid Faherty realized that he could no longer count on big European corporations to offer him job security.
So in 1999, he struck out on his own, investing $770,000 of his life's savings, and raising another $76.2 million from Warburg Pincus, a private equity and venture capital firm based in New York, to buy a subsidiary from his former employer, American Home Products. Today, he is the chief executive of Eurand Pharmaceutical Holdings N.V., a Dutch company that researches how the human body can better absorb medication.
"In the past, Europe was like Japan in that people stayed in a job for life," Mr. Faherty said. "Today, there's a greater entrepreneurial spirit."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerome Mol, chairman of a Dutch firm that advises entrepreneurs, said European companies now cooperate with each other more frequently. (Jehsong Baak for The New York Times)(pg. C10); Charles Muirhead, a British entrepreneur, once had trouble attracting venture capital firms from America. Now, those firms seek out European clients. (Jehsong Baak for The New York Times); (Al Granberg/The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "The Money Hunt"In search of new opportunities, a number of American venture capital firms have turned their attention to Europe. But with the value of deals shrinking, they may find it tough going. PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENTS (IN BILLIONS*) Britain4TH QUARTER 2000: $2.391ST QUARTER 2001: 1.10 France4TH QUARTER 2000: 1.291ST QUARTER 2001: 0.48 Italy4TH QUARTER 2000: 0.991ST QUARTER 2001: 0.33 Germany4TH QUARTER 2000: 0.511ST QUARTER 2001: 0.16 *Disclosed investments, including venture capital(Source: Thomson Financial Venture Economics)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SALES PROSPECTING (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; VENTURE CAPITAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON (91%); ADVENT INTERNATIONAL CORP (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ORCHESTREAM; DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON; ADVENT INTERNATIONAL; GORILLA PARK (CO) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE; MUIRHEAD, CHARLES; FISHER, JOHN; BROWN, DOUGLAS; MOL, JEROME 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



788 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Six Killed in Renewed Mideast Violence 

BYLINE:  By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 29 

 BODY:
Three Israeli settlers and three Palestinians were killed today in fresh violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and an American-brokered security meeting between Israeli and Palestinian officers ended with no signs of agreement on steps to stem the bloodshed.
 William J. Burns, the American ambassador to Jordan and special envoy to the Middle East, met again separately with Palestinian and Israeli officials to try to end the violence and resume negotiations, but they remained far apart on how to proceed. 
 The security meeting ended inconclusively after Jibril Rajoub, the Palestinian security chief in the West Bank, and Avi Dichter, director of the Israeli Shin Bet security service, stayed away, Israeli radio and television reported. During the meeting, attended by an Israeli general and senior Palestinian security officers, each side accused the other of failing to halt violent attacks, but the officials agreed to meet again, the reports said. 
The killings of Jewish settlers increased the pressure on Prime Minister Ariel Sharon from his rightist allies to lift restrictions announced last week on Israeli military operations against the Palestinians.
Mr. Sharon said the restrictions would remain in force for now, but Israeli officials warned that if deadly Palestinian attacks continued, the army would resume offensive action. 
"The government's patience is running out," said Tzahi Hanegbi, an Israeli cabinet minister.
Mr. Burns is seeking agreement on ways to carry out the recommendations of a committee headed by George J. Mitchell, a former United States senator. The panel urged an immediate cessation of violence and resumption of security cooperation; confidence-building measures, including an Israeli freeze on settlement activity; and a return to negotiations. 
In public remarks today, Mr. Sharon and Saeb Erekat, a senior Palestinian negotiator, staked out sharply opposing positions on how those recommendations should be carried out. Mr. Sharon said a halt to Palestinian violence should come first, followed later by mutual measures to restore trust and eventually a resumption of negotiations. 
Mr. Erekat said Israel should first make a commitment to freeze settlement activity, to ease blockades and economic restrictions on the Palestinians and to negotiate a permanent peace. 
Citing an announcement by Natan Sharansky, the Israeli housing minister, that he was going ahead with plans to build hundreds of housing units in two settlement towns, Mr. Erekat said that "without an Israeli commitment up front to cease all settlement activity, ease the closures and return to permanent status negotiations, I don't think we have a partner." 
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, met in Russia today with President Vladimir V. Putin and called for "urgent international action to stop the dangerous spiral of violence" to prevent "an explosion across the whole region." 
The killings today raised new assertions by both sides that neither was prepared to stop the violence.
In the West Bank, Palestinian gunmen killed Gilad Zar, 41, the security officer of Jewish settlements in the northern West Bank, raking his jeep with gunfire as he drove near Nablus, the Israeli Army said. Mr. Zar, the son of a land dealer who purchased extensive tracts of land for construction of Jewish settlements, had been seriously wounded in a previous shooting attack, but had recovered and returned to work.
A few hours later near Bethlehem, gunmen firing from a passing car killed two women from the settlement of Efrat as they drove to Jerusalem. They were identified as Sarah Blaustein, 53, and Esther Alvan, 20. 
Mrs. Blaustein, an American, moved to Israel with her husband last summer from Lawrence, N.Y. Her son from a previous marriage, Sammy Berg, who lives in the United States and was visiting his mother, was wounded in the attack, and her husband, Norman, was slightly hurt. 
Acquaintances said Mrs. Blaustein had devoted her time to helping bereaved families of settlers who were killed in Palestinian attacks, and was a regular visitor to Rachel's Tomb, a Jewish shrine in Bethlehem that remains under Israeli control.
At an Israeli checkpoint outside Jericho, Israeli soldiers shot and killed a Palestinian, Ahmad Huleilo, 20, when they opened fire on a car. The army said soldiers were trying to arrest a wanted Palestinian and fired when he and his armed bodyguards fled. The suspect was wounded and captured, and Mr. Huleilo was killed. Palestinians said he had no record of anti-Israeli activity or political involvement. 
Near Khan Yunis in the Gaza Strip, two Palestinians wearing belts packed with explosives were killed when they tried to attack an Israeli position outside the settlement of Neve Dekalim, the army said. One Palestinian died when he detonated the belt, slightly wounding two soldiers, and a second attacker was shot and killed after he hurled hand grenades at the troops, the army said. --------------------

Journalists Briefly Detained

GAZA, May 29 (Reuters) -- Palestinian militants seized two journalists working for the magazine Newsweek today, then released them unharmed after four hours.
Embarrassed Palestinian leaders said they had nothing to do with the incident and denounced the militants, whom security officers said they would find and punish. 
The journalists, Joshua Hammer, 43, the American head of Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau, and Gary Knight, 36, a British photographer, were held by men they went to interview in Rafah, near the border with Egypt. It was the first incident of its kind since the Palestinian uprising against Israel began in September.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about continuing violence in the Middle East and the shooting death of a settler, Sarah Blaustein, misstated her destination when she moved from the United States last August. It was the settlement of Efrat, which is in the West Bank, not in Israel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The coffin of Gilad Zar, who was killed yesterday, was brought to the prime minister's office in Jerusalem as an act of protest. Israeli settlers, including Mr. Zar's wife, center, and young son, gathered around the coffin. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times); Medics tended to Sarah Blaustein after a drive-by shooting. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); RIOTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%) PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (56%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (52%) BURNS, WILLIAM J (AMB); GREENBERG, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



789 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Farms as Farmland in the Hudson Valley 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: STUYVESANT, N.Y., May 25 

 BODY:
Norman Nadeau Jr. answered a personal ad in a farming magazine in 1985 and fell in love with the ad writer, Anna, and her family's 186-acre dairy farm in this Hudson River town where silos punctuate the horizon. 
 He married her and bought the farm, but they did not live happily ever after. 
 Mr. Nadeau is now divorced, and his farm has not made a profit in a decade because of low commodity prices and high taxes. Things got so bad that he started renting out his buildings, and considered subdividing his pastures for a housing development. 
Then another option presented itself: Scenic Hudson, an environmental group, offered to pay Mr. Nadeau $110,000 for the development rights to 80 acres as a way of permanently limiting the use of that land to agriculture without buying it outright. Last month, Mr. Nadeau accepted.
"I thought it was a good thing," said Mr. Nadeau, 62, a hefty man who greeted his visitors in denim overalls and muddy black boots on a recent afternoon. "I can pay off my debt, and a good portion of the farm will remain in farming." 
Scenic Hudson has spent $2.1 million to save 2,200 acres in Stuyvesant from development, and preserve the heritage of a rural landscape settled by Dutch farmers in the 1600's. Today, there are 2,188 residents in the town and more than 80 percent of the land is used for farming. Lest there be any doubt, green metal signs at the borders declare that this is "An Agricultural Community."
The preservation efforts in Stuyvesant, about 20 miles south of Albany, have attracted attention at a time when farmland is fast disappearing around the country. From 1992 to 1997, more than six million acres of farmland was developed for residential, commercial and industrial uses, including 132,000 acres in New York State, according to the most recent figures from the United States Department of Agriculture.
The idea of buying development rights on farmland is simple. The land is appraised for what it would be worth on the open market, and then for what it would be worth if it could be used only for farming. The farmer is paid the difference -- an average of $1,100 per acre in Stuyvesant, for example -- and a conservation easement, which restricts or prohibits future development on the property, is granted.
The government has spent millions on farmland development rights since the 1970's, but the demand for such protection has increasingly exceeded the money that is available. In New York alone, counties and municipalities applied this year for $62.9 million to buy development rights through the Farmland Protection Program. Only $12.2 million was awarded.
"It's frustrating," said David Haight, the Northeast field representative for the American Farmland Trust, a national conservation organization. "Farmers are spending a lot of time putting together applications. With such a small amount of funding, it's discouraging a lot of good farm preservation projects from going forward."
Scenic Hudson, and other private conservation groups like the Open Space Institute, have stepped into that gap, spending more than $6 million to buy farmland development rights in the Hudson Valley in recent years. Scenic Hudson is unusual because it has focused on clusters of farms in a particular town; in 1998, the group also secured development rights on 1,000 acres in Red Hook, N.Y., about 20 miles north of Poughkeepsie, for $2.4 million.
Seth McKee, associate land preservation director for Scenic Hudson, said farms had a better chance of surviving when surrounded by other farms. "We wanted to avoid the syndrome of protecting the last farm," he said. "If you put a farm under easement, there's no guarantee that it will be farmed. We were trying to go to a community where there was a critical mass of agriculture still alive, where the agricultural economy was still intact and where the farmers were still a real presence."
In Stuyvesant, Scenic Hudson found a traditional farming community that had grown wary of developers and homeowners who complain about the noisy, slow-moving farm machinery in the early mornings.
"They move up here because they want to live in the country," Mr. Nadeau said, "but they don't like the smell of manure in their yards."
Mr. Nadeau and other farmers were suspicious of Scenic Hudson's preservation efforts in the town at first. But after countless meetings and door-to-door visits, they slowly warmed to the idea of selling their development rights to an outsider. Mr. Nadeau, for one, desperately needed the extra income to reduce the mortgage on his farm.
But money was not the only incentive. George Gibson, 83, said he sold the development rights on 600 acres of corn, soybean and hay fields to ensure the future of his family's farm. Started by his father in 1931, the Gibson farm produces an average of 190 bushels of corn per acre -- better than the county average of 180 bushels per acre -- and makes a modest profit in most years. 
"The best part of Scenic Hudson is that they'll leave the land for farming," Mr. Gibson said as he surveyed row after row of neatly planted corn stalks. "Farming is part of my business, and it's part of me."
By buying development rights, Scenic Hudson's preservation efforts have also made farmland in Stuyvesant more affordable for new buyers. Farmers can now buy land with conservation easements at prices well below the market value for unrestricted land. Mr. Nadeau said he already has an offer for his 80-acre pasture from a couple who want to use it for a horse farm.
Mr. Nadeau plans to continue raising cattle and hay. But now that his financial problems have been solved, he will cut back on his operations and take some time to enjoy life. Maybe even fall in love again. 
"I'm going to be a hobby farmer," he said. "I always wanted to be one. You get up and do what you want, because you don't have to meet a payment at the end of the month."

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Gibson, left, with Mike Ellers, sold the development rights on 600 acres of corn, soybean and hay fields in Stuyvesant, N.Y., to ensure the future of his family's farm. (Will Waldron for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Norman Nadeau Jr.'s 186-acre dairy farm has not made a profit for a decade. He sold Scenic Hudson the development rights to 80 acres. (Will Waldron for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%) AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; LAND USE POLICIES 

ORGANIZATION: SCENIC HUDSON 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) STUYVESANT (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



790 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Alaska Energy Development Surges and Alarms Some
Regardless of what happens to the Bush administration's plans to open Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, the state is experiencing one of the biggest booms in energy development since the trans-Alaska oil pipeline was built in the 1970's.
 This surge heartens energy officials but alarms environmentalists, some of whose leaders have begun to worry that the intense battle over the fate of the wildlife refuge has obscured the many other battles they say they should be fighting. Page A1. 

Nasdaq Falls in Technology Slump
Shares of large technology companies retreated as investors began to doubt that corporate earnings growth would justify their recent enthusiasm. The Nasdaq composite index fell 75.49 points, or 3.4 percent, to 2,175.54. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 9.96 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,267.93. But the Dow Jones industrial average rose 33.77 points, or 0.3 percent, to 11,039.14. C11.

Intel Unveils New Family of Chips
With a barrage of news releases, Intel, most major computer makers and several leading software vendors inaugurated the commercial era of Itanium, the first in a new family of microchips that Intel hopes will make it a powerhouse in the world of big computers. But shares of Intel fell in a general technology sell-off, declining $1.25, to $27.85. C6.

G.M. to Submit Offer for Daewoo
After six months of sizing up Daewoo Motor's remaining assets, G.M. will present a formal proposal today for taking over the South Korean company. World Business, Section W.

No Midyear Raises for Some at Firm
Credit Suisse First Boston has told about 5,400 executives of its investment banking operations that they will not receive midyear raises, signaling that Wall Street is still feeling the squeeze from the slowdown. C11.

Judge Plans to Clear Coke Bias Pact
A federal judge said that he planned to authorize a $192.5 million settlement of a discrimination lawsuit against the Coca-Cola Company, giving the final seal of approval to the largest settlement ever in a racial bias case. C11.

Head of Bank of Thailand Replaced
The governor of the Bank of Thailand was replaced after months of arguing behind the scenes over the direction of the nation's interest rates. World Business, Section W.

G.E. and Honeywell Present Case
General Electric and Honeywell International presented their case to European regulators for approval of their planned $40 billion aerospace merger. World Business, Section W.

No Glass Ceiling at This Firm
Since 1999, Anne M. Tatlock has been chairman and chief executive of Fiduciary Trust, a global asset-management firm in Manhattan. It is unusual enough for a woman to run a large corporation, much less a Wall Street firm, but Fiduciary Trust stands out for more than just that. In an industry overwhelmingly male and rife with accusations of sexism, it employs more women than men. Management. C10.

Once-Highflying Vodafone Struggles
Once a darling of analysts and an industry front-runner, Vodafone of Britain is struggling. Its shares are down more than 30 percent in the last year. And price wars in key markets are driving down profits. Market Place. C2.

Consumer Confidence Rose in May
Consumer confidence rose in May as Americans refused to let an eroding job market cloud their expectations that the economy would pick up, the Conference Board said. C9.

A Little More Comfort During Delays
Airports, which used to be designed and run like minimum-security penal institutions, are being renovated to add conveniences and amenities and generally make fliers want to linger. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 11,039.14 up 33.77Nasdaq composite -- 2,175.54 down 75.4910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.52% up 0.03The euro -- $0.8557 down 0.0040The dollar -- 120.07 yen down 0.54 Graph shows Intel share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); LITIGATION (85%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); WOMEN (72%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); JUDGES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); GENDER EQUALITY (66%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); COCA-COLA CO (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); KO (NYSE) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (89%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



791 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
DiFrancesco's Wishes Won't Make Tolls Go Away, Even for a Day

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD, N.J. 

 BODY:
IT was the kind of nice-guy proposal you would expect from a nice guy like Donald T. DiFrancesco. New Jersey's acting governor wanted to declare a toll holiday for just one day on the Garden State Parkway. He had the perfect day: the Fourth of July. Let freedom ring!
 Mr. DiFrancesco, a genial State House fixture who is also the State Senate president, has had a tough time since becoming acting governor earlier this year. Revelations about his previous business dealings as the township attorney in his hometown of Scotch Plains derailed his candidacy for governor in the November election. And now the economy is faltering during his truncated tenure. So taking the first step toward ridding the parkway of its irritating toll plazas seemed like the perfect legacy for a short-timer. 
 Perhaps one day there will be plaques where the toll plazas once stood declaring "Traffic Stopped Here," and Mr. DiFrancesco can be immortalized as having first rescued motorists from the change baskets.
"I had visions of waving people through," is how Mr. DiFrancesco described his pleasant picture of the Fourth. For a day, there would be no trolls of the toll booths or road ragers yelling at them. Toll collectors would just send the mellow motorists on their way to the beach or the barbecue with a tip of the hat.
But like many of Mr. DiFrancesco's other excursions as acting governor, he had a fender-bender backing out of the driveway. A couple of days after Mr. DiFrancesco's aides mentioned the toll-free day last week, the governor had to scratch his plans.
It turns out he had ventured onto complicated terrain.
Not only would the parkway lose about $450,000 in toll revenues for the day, but state transportation officials estimated it would cost an additional $200,000 to $400,000 to pay extra toll collectors to wave drivers through the toll lanes (many of which are normally automated) and to pay additional police officers to monitor the traffic.
In addition, the State Administrative Procedures Act requires a lengthy process of review and public comment before changes are made to the toll structure on public roads, according to Dennis Ingoglia, a spokesman for the New Jersey Highway Authority.
The only way around the law would be for Mr. DiFrancesco to show "imminent peril to health, safety or welfare."
Imminent peril to the record of one politician is apparently not sufficient.
"I found there was a lot of resistance for a variety of reasons," Mr. DiFrancesco told reporters. "If that's the case, I don't want to create a problem that doesn't exist."
Turns out he's created one, without getting any of the benefit. "That was political," one motorist grumbled, climbing into his van at a parkway rest stop here. "He just wanted to show he was doing something for the people." In New Jersey, that's seen as political shenanigans, which explains why some politicians would rather just do things for their friends. At least they appreciate it.
Getting rid of tolls on the parkway has suddenly picked up the political force that the rat elimination movement had in New York City a few months ago. Bret D. Schundler, a Republican primary gubernatorial candidate given to strong pronouncements, has vowed to eradicate the parkway's token-sucking infrastructure if elected. And other candidates have taken milder positions against the lowly toll.
Mr. DiFrancesco has apparently not given up on making toll elimination part of his legacy. His office is studying a long-term plan to eliminate the tolls booths over several years, and an announcement on a proposal could come soon.
HE'S committed to doing something," said his spokesman, Tom Wilson. But getting rid of tolls is not as simple as bulldozing toll plazas. The parkway collects $190 million a year in tolls, and it uses that money to help pay off its $600 million in outstanding bond debt.
That's why, if you are governor for a season, eliminating tolls for a day is such an attractive gesture. The word from the governor's office is that Mr. DiFrancesco might consider suspending tolls on another holiday.
Labor Day is three months off and a big day for traveling the parkway to and from the shore. But Mr. Ingoglia, the highway authority spokesman, said given all of the mandated bureaucratic hoops, getting approval to give drivers a day without tolls "would take between four or five months."
Let's see. That brings us to Election Day.
Of course, that is probably not a day Mr. DiFrancesco would consider a holiday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); ROAD RAGE (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (67%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (61%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TOLLS 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY HIGHWAY AUTHORITY INC (52%)

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY; GARDEN STATE PARKWAY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



792 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Sun Reduces Expectations On Earnings

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 29 

 BODY:
Blaming sales in Europe that were slower than expected, Sun Microsystems lowered its earnings forecast for the current quarter today and provided updated projections that were as low as one-third what industry analysts had expected it to report.
 Michael Lehman, Sun's chief financial officer, said revenue was now expected to be $3.8 billion to $4 billion for the fiscal fourth quarter ending next month. Mr. Lehman said Sun expected earnings to be 2 cents to 4 cents a share, a marked drop-off from the 6 cents projected by industry analysts. 
 "Demand in Europe has really trailed off more than we really thought," Mr. Lehman said in a conference call with industry analysts and reporters. "The news is Europe. The surprise is Europe." 
But Doug van Dorsten, an analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners, which had projected Sun would ultimately report earnings of 5 cents a share, said a slowdown in Europe was not particularly surprising and was probably linked to a slowdown in the United States. Rather, Mr. Dorsten said, Sun might be trying to play down the effect on its earnings of its transition to a new family of servers -- the ultrapowerful computers that are the bread and butter of Sun's business.
Mr. Dorsten said Sun began rolling out the lower end of its Ultra Sparc III product family in December but had not introduced the higher-end servers, and potential customers might be waiting to buy the latest technology. Moreover, he said, the company could be facing new threats from competitors pushing into Europe.
"Sun perhaps is downplaying the product transition," Mr. Dorsten said, adding that problems related to a product transition were not caused by macroeconomics but rather by factors within Sun.
"At its core," he said, "this is an execution issue."
Mr. Lehman asserted, however, that Sun's bottom line was affected primarily by macroeconomic "demand" not by issues related to the transition or any difficulty the company had getting supplies to build its servers. That said, Mr. Lehman said the company did see some stabilization in demand in the United States.
Daniel R. Kunstler, an analyst with J. P. Morgan, said Mr. Lehman seemed to indicate that future economic conditions remained murky, suggesting, in a refrain that has become common in recent months, the company offered "little visibility."
Mr. Lehman was "not really trying to encourage anybody to look for a silver lining," he said.
"He was saying: 'This is the environment we're in. Let's not try to hold out signs of a recovery or hope for a recovery,' " Mr. Kunstler added.
In its third fiscal quarter, Sun, based in Mountain View, Calif., reported that it earned 8 cents a share, but that figure was 4 cents a share when a deduction of one-time special items was included.
Today, Sun's shares fell $1.80, to $18.67, before the announcement. In after-hours trading, they fell to $17.51.
Earlier in the day, Laura Conigliaro, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, cut her earnings forecasts for both Sun and the data-storage concern EMC, sending both companies' shares down. 
Then, after Sun issued its warning, Ms. Conigliaro said that the company, as a result of the change in demand, might have to rethink some of the rules it has sought to live by. Those include an aversion to layoffs and to acquisitions of large companies.
"A lot of things got a little out of hand last year, and Sun probably will at least discuss and give a harder look towards certain things that up to now it has rejected," she said. 
As for EMC, Ms. Conigliaro cut her earnings estimate to 76 cents a share from 81 cents. She said it appeared at one time that EMC and other data-storage companies were well insulated from the economic downturn.
EMC also announced layoffs of 1,100 employees, or roughly 4 percent of the work force. The company said the cutbacks were intended to lower expenses and to "ensure maximum flexibility in seizing opportunities as the economy stabilizes."
EMC also said it planned to continue to increase the number of sales representatives and systems engineers through new hiring or redeploying the current work force. The company said it was still seeking to meet a 2001 revenue growth target of "20 percent or greater."
Shares of EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., closed at $33.99, off $3.11. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVES (57%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; SALES 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (58%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (87%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



793 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Role in Missile Defense 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: LONDON, May 29 

 BODY:
It is not surprising that the Bush administration's new effort to persuade Russia to scrap the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty has received a chilly reception in Moscow. It fails to address Russia's central concern, to ensure there are strict limits -- or at least clearly defined ones -- on the development and deployment of antimissile systems. 
 That way Russia can ensure that an American missile shield can never become effective enough to neutralize Moscow's nuclear deterrent and that there are some constraints on how much the United States can exploit its technological and economic advantages. 
 But the Bush administration's latest proposals are silent on that count. Instead of new limits on defensive systems, it offers the Russians less vital inducements: joint antimissile exercises, arms purchases and funds to repair Russia's early warning network. Few of those suggestions are new and some are already in effect. 
That does not mean that a new understanding on missile defense cannot be reached with Moscow or that the administration's proposals may not prove useful. But it suggests that if a compromise is to be reached permitting the United States to erect a limited nationwide defense, the administration's proposals are at best only part of the solution. 
"The bottom line for the Russians is that a defense has to be limited," observed Joseph Cirincione, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "They can't go along with an open-ended defense that has the potential to overwhelm their deterrent."
When the Bush administration took office it appeared to have little interest in wooing Moscow. Senior aides signaled that the decision to build an antimissile defense had been made, and the implication was that there was little Moscow could or should be able to do about it.
That may still be the administration's real thinking. But politics at home and abroad requires that the White House make a diplomatic effort -- or at least be perceived as trying.
With the Democrats taking control of the Senate -- and with skeptics of the administration's missile plans leading the Foreign Relations and Armed Services Committees -- there will be little support for money for an antimissile defense if Washington does not try to talk to Moscow. 
As for the allies, they seem prepared to go along grudgingly with a missile defense, but only if a way can be found to maintain a working relationship with Russia and preserve a modicum of arms control.
The unease of the allies about the Bush administration's still vague missile plan, and the still sketchy arms control strategy that undergirds it, was evident today at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Budapest. To the frustration of the administration, they declined even to acknowledge formally that the allies faced a "common threat" of a missile attack.
A senior White House official seemed to concede the new political realities when he acknowledged, "If we are going to make this work, the Russians have to agree to the plan."
The paradox is that having acknowledged the growing importance of securing Moscow's assent, or at least acquiescence, the administration's proposals are not sufficient to close the gap.
Consider the offer to conduct joint exercises of tactical antimissile systems, the sort used against medium-and short-range missiles. That is not a new idea; the program is already under way. Two exercises involving computer simulation have been held in Moscow and Colorado, and a team of Russian officials visited the United States in February to plan a field exercise next year at Fort Bliss, Tex.
Another offer is to share early warning data on missile launches. But the Clinton administration and the Kremlin reached an agreement in 1998 to do just that, and a center to share such data is to be established in Moscow. 
The Bush administration is also ready to finance improvements in Russia's early warning system, but one example suggests that is not sufficient to win the hearts and minds of the Russian military. 
The Clinton administration offered assistance in constructing an early warning radar in eastern Siberia and in launching Russian early warning satellites. In return, the Clinton team sought the right to build a limited nationwide missile defense. Moscow rejected that offer. Now the Bush team is recycling the Clinton plan, but it wants the right to build a much larger antimissile system than the Clinton administration considered.
Finally, the Bush administration is offering to buy S-300 antimissile systems, which the Russians have offered to install in Europe. Those would provide a defense against medium- and short-range missiles within the strict limits of the ABM treaty. Because the sale of the S-300 was essentially a Russian idea, Moscow can hardly object. But it is unlikely that the purchase of the systems will be decisive in overcoming Russia's concerns about a multitiered missile defense.
The key questions for the Russians -- and for Congress and the United States' allies -- are clear: What sort of defensive system does the Bush administration propose to build? Will it be ground based or sea based, or will some elements be based in space (a big worry for Moscow, which fears that a space-based system could be expanded into a much vaster shield)? How long will it take to develop? And when does the program bump up against the limits of the ABM treaty?
And if the ABM treaty is abandoned, does the Bush administration plan to negotiate new binding limits on antimissile defenses and offensive nuclear arms? In short, what is the new strategic framework President Bush has called for (but never defined)?
Until the Bush administration fills in those blanks, it will be hard not only to hammer out an agreement, it will be hard even to have a serious discussion. 
"In order to hold a discussion, you have to have some subject for it, a plan, a concrete understanding of what the other side wants," said Sergei B. Ivanov, the Russian defense minister. "For now, there are no such plans." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (93%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (68%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); HUNGARY (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



794 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Cut: Winners and Losers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman, in his May 27 column opposing the tax reduction, stridently contends that the measure that just cleared Congress represents "white-collar crime" and that its supporters should be jailed "somewhere unpleasant."
 The fact is that according to the Congressional Budget Office, tax receipts to the federal government will reach almost 21 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year, the highest total since World War II. 
This will produce a budget surplus of $281 billion this year -- a surplus that, paradoxically, has become a drag on economic growth. 
 This modest bill is a fraction of Ronald Reagan's 1981 tax relief when measured as a percentage of G.D.P. Is it really a crime to stimulate a sluggish economy while giving low-income Americans with two children a tax cut of nearly 50 percent? Or would Mr. Krugman prefer continued high taxes and even larger budget surpluses, presumably to be used for more government spending? 

GREGORY R. VALLIERE
Washington, May 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (55%) TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) VALLIERE, GREGORY R; KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



795 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: The Tax Cut: Winners and Losers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Reading about the forthcoming tax rebates (front page, May 27) reminded me of the one other tax rebate I received. 
Last year, Pennsylvania homeowners got a $100 rebate on their school property taxes. I signed mine over to my local public school. One parent told me the money went toward needed books, supplies and playground equipment. A local citizens' group sponsored the program, aptly called "Give Back the Give Back." 
 The rebates due this summer won't fend off a recession, but they might help public programs searching for money.

PHYLLIS MYERS
Philadelphia, May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); EDUCATION FUNDING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TAXATION 

PERSON: MEYERS, PHYLLIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



796 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Oil Boom Nears for Alaska, Even if Refuge Isn't Drilled 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: CORDOVA, Alaska, May 24 

 BODY:
Regardless of what happens to the Bush administration's plans to open Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, the state is on the verge of the biggest boom in energy development since the Trans-Alaska oil pipeline was built in the mid-1970's. 
 From the Copper River Delta here on Prince William Sound to Cook Inlet near Anchorage, where the state recently sold oil-exploration rights in 30 tracts, to the gigantic man-made Northstar island in the Beaufort Sea where BP Amoco is set to begin offshore production, exploration and development are surging. 
 And state and industry leaders are confidently promoting plans for a project that would dwarf all of these: a $10 billion pipeline to carry natural gas in Alaska's north to the lower 48 states, an undertaking that could spark a boom akin to the one following construction of the oil pipeline. 
The surge heartens energy officials like Larry Houle, who fondly recalled how he made $97,000 in one year as a 19-year-old welder's helper during construction of the 800-mile pipeline, which stretches from the Arctic to the south Alaska port of Valdez. 
"There's an optimism I haven't felt in this state in a long time," said Mr. Houle, who is now general manager of the Alaska Support Industry Alliance, a trade association for companies that serve the oil and gas industry. "Everybody just seems to be hiring everybody these days." 
But that same surge alarms environmentalists, some of whose leaders worry aloud that the intense battle over the wildlife refuge has obscured other battles they say they should be fighting against energy development. 
The individual oil-drilling projects are still small in relation to the reserves that could be found in the Arctic refuge. The projects now under way are generally measured in the tens or hundreds of millions of gallons, while federal geologists estimate that between 3 billion and 16 billion barrels of oil lie beneath the tundra at the refuge. 
But in total, these smaller projects could well approach the size of the Arctic reserves, and there is strong pro-drilling pressure in the state, where oil money finances nearly all the state budget, with enough left over to provide every resident in Alaska with an annual "oil dividend" check that last year reached $1,963.86, an all-time high. 
Moreover, while Congress can decide what happens in the refuge -- and with the change of power in the Senate to Democratic leadership, the White House proposal to open the refuge to drilling is unlikely to go anywhere -- many decisions about what happens here are in the hands of state officials, who strongly support oil and gas development.
The rush of activity is the result of a sharp and sustained rise in fuel prices and technological advances that have made it "easier to find the oil and cheaper to get it out of the ground," said Scott Goldsmith, an economics professor at the University of Alaska. It also stems from the industry's confidence that the Bush administration's support for oil production will further justify such investments. 
Local support for the gas pipeline is especially robust, though energy industry executives and Alaskan and Canadian leaders are feuding over just where such a pipeline should run.
Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat, and other Alaska officials strongly favor a plan to build a gas pipeline that would run alongside the existing oil pipeline for much of its way.
But Canadians and many industry officials back a route that would go under the Arctic Ocean -- just beyond the wildlife refuge -- east to Canada, where the gas would flow south through existing pipelines. 
Either route is likely to provoke another environmental battle here. Other development plans are raising concerns as well. 
Just this week, Phillips Alaska Inc., one of the main players in Alaska's energy industry, said it had discovered three large oil and gas fields on the North Slope, inside the 23 million-acre National Petroleum Reserve. 
Despite objections from environmental groups, the Clinton administration three years ago offered about 4 million acres in the northeast corner of the reserve for exploration, with several companies bidding more than $100 million for rights to lease about 130 tracts in the area. 
The reserve area is near the Arctic Ocean, well to the west of the refuge, and many environmentalists say it contains lands that are just as ecologically sensitive. But they concede they have little chance of stopping development in that region. 
"It's a fabulous area in terms of wildlife, it has resources that match or exceed what are found in the Arctic refuge, especially with the birds" that congregate by the tens of thousands in both places during their annual migrations, said Stanley E. Senner, executive director of Audubon Alaska. 
"But it doesn't have that line around it calling it a national wildlife refuge," Mr. Senner said. "So it's a different political and legal framework. We're not in a position to just sort of fall on our sword and say there should be no oil drilling there, like we can attempt to do in the Arctic refuge. Our hope is there can be more of an attempt to find common ground on what areas are the most important to protect." 
In other areas, it is very difficult to see where such common ground might lie. 
Here in the Copper River Delta, near the site of the state's first oil field development nearly a century ago, a company's bid to renew oil exploration near Prince William Sound has enraged the fishermen who catch Copper River salmon, the wild fish that is much in demand at restaurants around the country. 
These fishermen belong to the same fleet that was upended in 1989 when the Exxon Valdez ran aground near here, dumping at least 10.8 million gallons of North Slope crude into the sound and blackening more than 1,000 miles of the Gulf of Alaska coastline. 
The herring and salmon market collapsed in the years after the spill. But, thanks in part to an intensive marketing campaign that has made the Copper River king and sockeye salmon known by name to diners thousands of miles away, there has been something of a recovery for the fleet based here in Cordova, a waterfront fishing town that is ringed spectacularly by the snowy Chugach Mountains. 
Just east of here, in the Chugach National Forest, one of the regional corporations set up two decades ago to benefit Alaska's native inhabitants owns the drilling rights to Katalla, an oil field that first started production at the turn of the century and was abandoned by the 1930's. 
With oil prices rising, that corporation, Chugach Alaska, has reached agreement with an independent oil company to restart oil-drilling operations in the area. Many of the fishermen, backed by environmentalists, say even the mere fact of drilling in the area could harm the pristine image their fish now enjoy. 
"It's crazy," said Dan Pettit, 45, who owns a fishing boat here called the Midnite Sun. "If they make one mistake there, we'd be wiped out. Even if they don't, it taints the fish. People are going to think these fish have to swim past refineries or something." 
Chris Maxcy, 33, agreed as he mended nets in a light mist the other evening here.
"It's wild, it's clean, it's got a reputation as the best fish around," Mr. Maxcy said. "If they had even one minor spill and it got into the river system at the wrong time, that would be a disaster for us."
Rick Rogers, the vice president of lands and resources for Chugach Alaska, said such concerns were overblown. 
"What taints the image of the fish is all the hype coming from national environmental organizations that somehow the Copper River salmon is threatened by this," said Mr. Rogers, referring to the company's plans to drill an exploratory well, perhaps as early as this summer, at the Katalla field. 
Mr. Rogers said that industry interest in the area had "waxed and waned" over the years.
"Right now there's quite a bit of interest" because of high fuel prices, he said. 
"That's why we have someone in there," he said, referring to the Katalla field.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BP Amoco is set to begin production at its Northstar site, a man-made island near Prudhoe Bay in the Beaufort Sea, shown here last September. (Michael Dinneen)(pg. A18); Oil and other energy projects are under way on the North Slope of Alaska near the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. (The New York Times)(pg. A1) Maps of Alaska show active drilling in state owned oil fields and gas fields. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%) ENERGY AND POWER; WILDERNESS AREAS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PIPELINES 

COMPANY: BP PLC (90%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (90%); BP (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (97%); ARCTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (94%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



797 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: To Fill Gaps, Cities Seek Wave of Immigrants 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, May 25 

 BODY:
A small but growing number of cities with declining populations are embracing new strategies to attract immigrants to replenish shrinking neighborhoods, fill labor shortages and inject greater ethnic diversity in their communities.
 A number of such efforts are under way here in Pittsburgh, where the population fell by 9.5 percent in the 1990's, to 334,563, and the immigrant population in the metropolitan area grew by only 9,000. Four local groups were awarded $800,000 in foundation grants in the past month to help lure immigrants with jobs, encourage foreign students to stay after graduation and teach the community about international diversity. Separately, Allegheny County, which includes the city, established a task force this week to study how to entice more immigrants. 
 Across the state, Philadelphia, which lost 4 percent of its population since 1990, is considering a plan that would create an "Office of New Philadelphians" patterned after similar offices in New York and Boston that help new foreign arrivals. The plan, whose champion, Councilman James F. Kenney, is seeking financing from private foundations, would also promote the city in American consulates abroad and require more gates at the Philadelphia airport for flights to and from Asia and Latin America. 
"We've got a people problem," said Grant Oliphant, planning director for the Heinz Endowments, a private, independent foundation in Pittsburgh that gave the grants. "Regional economies today are heavily dependent on people and people skills, and it's difficult to attract new businesses in a region that's losing people."
It was not that long ago that many city officials viewed immigrants as a drain on public services and that workers saw them as competition for jobs. But the booming economy of the late 1990's made immigrant labor at all skill levels a valued commodity, and foreign-born residents, typically with larger, younger families, helped restock urban neighborhoods that shrank as the middle class moved to the suburbs.
The fledgling efforts to attract immigrants have just begun in most cities and are part of broader revitalization plans. They are partly in response to new data from the 2000 census showing that immigrants are fueling the growth in the nation's fastest-growing cities, like Charlotte, N.C., and Las Vegas, and offsetting the flight to the suburbs in many others, like Chicago and New York. 
While it is too early to predict the programs' success, planners here are also watching how other cities retain their foreign newcomers. In Louisville, Ky., whose population fell 5 percent in the 1990's, a new city office of international and cultural affairs plans to post a list of interpreters on the Internet by the end of next month for community service providers to use.
Louisville officials say their population would have dropped even more had it not been for the roughly 20,000 immigrants and refugees, from countries like Cuba, Somalia and Vietnam, who came in the 1990's, tripling the immigrant population.
In Albuquerque, the City Council passed a bill last December declaring the city "immigrant-friendly," and appropriated $50,000 to create a resource program for immigrants. An influx of Hispanics has contributed to a 16 percent increase in the city's population since 1990.
But even as cities contemplate how to reverse population declines, demographers expressed caution about whether civic leaders could influence immigration patterns.
"The research doesn't clearly tell us what causes what, meaning, Does the presence of immigrants lead to job creation or do jobs attract the immigrants?" said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer with the Urban Institute, a social-policy research organization in Washington.
Even if cities can attract immigrants with jobs, housing and ethnic enclaves, some critics express fear that they could strain city services. 
"Politicians who see immigration as a solution to their region's viability are shortsighted," said Sharon McCloe Stein, executive director of Negative Population Growth Inc., a population control advocacy group in Washington. "Our country is overpopulated now. What we need is better distribution of the people we have."
Civic leaders here dismiss the criticism, but acknowledge they face a stiff challenge in recruiting immigrants to Pittsburgh, one of the nation's least racially and ethnically diverse cities.
Pittsburgh ranked 25th among metropolitan areas in the number of immigrants gained in the 1990's: only 8,935 people, or 0.4 percent of the area's total population, according to a census data analysis by the Center for Social and Urban Research at the University of Pittsburgh.
By comparison, the immigrant population of the Miami and New York metropolitan areas increased by 337,174 and 974,599, respectively, from 1990 to 1999. That net increase in immigrants amounted to 15.5 percent of Miami's population in 1999 and 11.2 percent of New York's. 
Once synonymous with a steel industry powered by waves of Italian, Irish, German and Eastern European workers, Pittsburgh has reinvented its economy since the big steel mills collapsed in the 1980's. 
But the city's outdated smoky image has dissuaded many immigrants, business leaders say, and thousands of jobs in new health care, biotechnology and computer software industries go begging.
Moreover, demographers say, it is difficult to attract immigrants if there is not already a large foreign community. Only 2 percent of the Pittsburgh area's population is foreign-born , and many of those people are elderly. Of the country's most-populous counties, Allegheny County has the second-oldest population, behind Palm Beach County, Fla.
There are pockets of ethnic diversity. The Squirrel Hill neighborhood is home to many of the city's 3,000 Russians. There is also a vibrant community of Indian medical and high-tech professionals.
Only 1.3 percent of Pittsburgh's population is Hispanic, according to the 2000 census. That is well below the 3.2 percent share in Pennsylvania and 12.5 percent nationwide.
The demise of the steel industry, for which overseas competition is largely blamed, has left many Pittsburghers wary of new foreigners, immigrants here say.
"The people at the top, in business and government, are very receptive, but the general population is still not very open or receptive to immigrants," said Anju Chopra, 32, who came to the United States from India as a student in 1992, and moved here six years ago from Florida with her husband, Sanjay, 33, an executive of a small software company. 
"Still, this area has been very good to us," said Ms. Chopra, an immigration and economic development consultant who earned a master's degree from Carnegie Mellon University here and is expecting the couple's second child next month. Ms. Chopra said she and her husband both recently applied for United States citizenship.
To help assess immigrants' needs, the Heinz Endowments has given $150,000 to the World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh to promote international understanding; $200,000 to El Centro Hispano-Latino, a group that recruits Hispanic workers and their families; $200,000 to the Pittsburgh Council for International Visitors, to encourage the 4,000 foreign students here to stay after their studies, and $250,000 to the Center for Competitive Workforce Development at Duquesne University, to study how immigrants can fit into the workplace. 
Kenneth B. Rodriguez, 58, El Centro's founder, who moved here in 1993 from Connecticut, acknowledged that the process was slow. He said he had recruited six men this year from Mexico, El Salvador and Puerto Rico for landscaping or welding jobs that started at $10 to $12 an hour.
Community leaders agreed that it would take a concerted effort to promote practical incentives and overcome ingrown suspicions. 
"There aren't any magic bullets," said Linda Ehrenreich, associate executive director of the Jewish Family and Children's Service of Pittsburgh, which has resettled 2,000 refugees here in the past decade. "It will take time and it will be controversial."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanjay Chopra, 33, a native of India, with his daughter, Anya, 4, lives and works in Pittsburgh. He and his wife have applied for citizenship. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)(pg. A21) Chart: "HEAD COUNT: MOVING IN FROM ABROAD"The top 25 metropolitan areas by net international migration from 1990 to 1999 as a percentage of estimated 1999 population. RANK: 1METROPOLITAN AREA: MiamiNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 337,174AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 15.5%1999 POPULATION: 2,175,634 RANK: 2METROPOLITAN AREA: New YorkNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 974,599AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 11.2%1999 POPULATION: 8,712,600 RANK: 3METROPOLITAN AREA: Los Angeles-Long BeachNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 902,097AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 9.7%1999 POPULATION: 9,329,989 RANK: 4METROPOLITAN AREA: Orange County, Calif.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 233,168AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 8.4%1999 POPULATION: 2,760,948 RANK: 5METROPOLITAN AREA: San DiegoNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 164,016AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.8%1999 POPULATION: 2,820,844 RANK: 6METROPOLITAN AREA: Oakland, Calif.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 135,027AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.7%1999 POPULATION: 2,348,723 RANK: 7METROPOLITAN AREA: HoustonNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 209,859AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.2%1999 POPULATION: 4,010,969 RANK: 8METROPOLITAN AREA: Washington, D.C.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 240,117AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 5.1%1999 POPULATION: 4,739,999 RANK: 9METROPOLITAN AREA: ChicagoNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 366,607AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 4.6%1999 POPULATION: 8,008,507 RANK: 10METROPOLITAN AREA: DallasNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 132,574AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 4.0%1999 POPULATION: 3,280,310 RANK: 11METROPOLITAN AREA: Riverside-San Bernardino, Calif.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 119,038AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 3.7%1999 POPULATION: 3,200,587 RANK: 12METROPOLITAN AREA: Seattle-Bellevue-EverettNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 79,353AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 3.4%1999 POPULATION: 2,334,934 RANK: 13METROPOLITAN AREA: Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 70,812AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.6%1999 POPULATION: 2,688,904 RANK: 14METROPOLITAN AREA: Boston*NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 137,313AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.5%1999 POPULATION: 5,423,689 RANK: 15METROPOLITAN AREA: AtlantaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 82,580AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.1%1999 POPULATION: 3,857,097 RANK: 16METROPOLITAN AREA: DenverNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 41,029AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.1%1999 POPULATION: 1,978,991 RANK: 17METROPOLITAN AREA: Phoenix-MesaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 62,280AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 2.1%1999 POPULATION: 3,013,696 RANK: 18METROPOLITAN AREA: Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater, Fla.NET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 42,826AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.9%1999 POPULATION: 2,278,169 RANK: 19METROPOLITAN AREA: PhiladelphiaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 91,672AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.9%1999 POPULATION: 4,949,867 RANK: 20METROPOLITAN AREA: Minneapolis-St. PaulNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 45,981AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.6%1999 POPULATION: 2,872,109 RANK: 21METROPOLITAN AREA: DetroitNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 68,449AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.5%1999 POPULATION: 4,474,614 RANK: 22METROPOLITAN AREA: BaltimoreNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 32,727AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.3%1999 POPULATION: 2,491,254 RANK: 23METROPOLITAN AREA: St. LouisNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 25,310AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 1.0%1999 POPULATION: 2,591,456 RANK: 24METROPOLITAN AREA: Cleveland-Lorain-ElyriaNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 17,247AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 0.8%1999 POPULATION: 2,221,181 RANK: 25METROPOLITAN AREA: PittsburghNET INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION: 8,935AS PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION: 0.4%1999 POPULATION: 2,331,336 *Not the Boston primary metropolitan statistical area, but a group of counties that generally corresponds to the Boston area. (Source: Center for Social and Urban Research at the University of Pittsburgh, from Census Bureau estimates)(pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); SUBURBS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CENSUS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) POPULATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; URBAN AREAS; CENSUS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%)

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (75%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ASIA (79%) PITTSBURGH (PA)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



798 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Rate Cut 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The Bank of Canada cut its key interest rates a quarter percentage point to encourage economic growth in the face of the slowdown in the United States. It cut its overnight rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75 percent and its bank rate to 4.75 percent from 5 percent. The central bank has lowered its rates one and a quarter points this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TRENDS (85%) INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



799 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Defends Deal to European Panel 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, May 29 

 BODY:
The General Electric Company and Honeywell International Inc. presented their case to European regulators for approval of their planned $40 billion aerospace merger today in a hearing that is the beginning of the end for the deal's clearance.
 G.E. and the European Commission, which is leading the investigation, declined to discuss details of the first day of the hearing. But people close to the commission said that G.E.'s economists questioned the European regulators' definitions of some of the markets affected by the deal. "It is quite normal for companies to go into the hearings by dismissing all the commission's objections," one person said. "The real negotiating doesn't begin until after the hearings are over." 
 The commission carefully checked all its assumptions before it issued its statement of objections to the deal last month, the person continued. Still, she said, companies have managed to convince the commission that its market definitions are too narrow, thereby inflating the apparent market share of a deal.
According to one Brussels-based competition lawyer, such turnabouts happen with some regularity. He pointed to a recent hearing involving the alliance of three airlines, United, Lufthansa and SAS. In that case, the commission, which started out with a market definition that only included direct flights on major routes like Frankfurt to New York, is believed to have changed the definition to include indirect flights between hub destinations. 
A commission ruling on the airline alliance is expected later this year.
The G.E.-Honeywell deal, announced in October, has already been conditionally approved in the United States. The European Commission has until July 12 to make its final decision.
Earlier this month, John F. Welch Jr., General Electric's chief executive, said he was surprised at how closely European regulators were scrutinizing the deal.
At today's hearing, the companies are said to have also questioned the commission's focus on the issue of bundling products together to gain a price advantage over competitors. The commissioner in charge of competition issues, Mario Monti, said late last month that bundling Honeywell avionics products into packages with G.E. engines could extend G.E.'s dominance from one part of the aerospace industry to another.
Mr. Welch has said he is willing to address this concern.
Wednesday's session of the hearing will give the floor to competitor firms, including United Technologies, whose Pratt & Whitney aircraft engines division would be directly affected by the deal.
Some people close to G.E. have said that the European regulators are listening more to rivals than to the airlines that will be customers of the aerospace combination. Only one airline, Lufthansa of Germany, is said to be attending this week's hearings.
According to the Brussels-based lawyer, some airlines are unwilling to be seen to speak out against the deal because of the harm that might cause to relations with such an important supplier later. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); AIRLINES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET SHARE (77%); AVIONICS (73%); AIR SERVICE (72%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (63%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (94%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (83%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (73%); PRATT & WHITNEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%); HON (NYSE) (94%); HON (LSE) (94%); LHA (FRA) (83%); UTX (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (94%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (51%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (58%) MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 



800 of 824 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A rare glimpse into one of the world's largest agency companies as it prepares to go public.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AN unexpected filing of documents is providing an exceedingly rare glimpse behind the scenes at one of the world's two largest privately held agency companies, the Bcom3 Group, revealing a concentration of power in the hands of four current and former executives as well as their salaries and other significant information that Bcom3 had not made known before.
 Bcom3, based in Chicago, has been privately held since its formation in January 2000, as were its two predecessors, the Leo Group in Chicago, parent of agencies like Leo Burnett, and the MacManus Group in New York, parent of agencies like D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles. 
 Among the 10 largest agency companies, according to the rankings of the trade publication Advertising Age, only Bcom3 (No. 7 in billings at $17.9 billion) and Dentsu in Tokyo (No. 6 in billings at $21.7 billion) are privately held. So in contrast to publicly held competitors like the Interpublic Group of Companies, the Omnicom Group and the WPP Group, Bcom3 has not been required to disclose details about earnings and losses, ownership stakes, sources of revenue by client or other operational information. 
But Bcom3 plans to go public by selling stock to outside investors. Bcom3 executives had hoped to do so this year, but declared in late March that they would postpone the offering through the end of 2001 because of the economic slowdown. In the meantime, Bcom3 has distributed shares to more than 660 current and former employees; Dentsu is also a Bcom3 shareholder, investing $493 million in March 2000 for an estimated 20 percent stake.
Because more than 500 employees now own Bcom3 stock, the agency company was required to file documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission as if it were a public company. Those documents, known as a Form 10 -- not to be confused with a 10-K annual report -- were filed with the commission in late April.
Bcom3 had not publicized the filing and was under no obligation to do so. After The Chicago Tribune published an article about the documents on Thursday, it become known that there was for the first time a window into the inner workings of Bcom3.
"We're a hybrid," said Elizabeth Krupnick, executive vice president for global corporate communications at Bcom3, "not public, but we've got to behave as if we are" because "north of 500" employees own shares in the agency company.
Ms. Krupnick declined to elaborate on any aspects of the documents because, she said, "The filing stands for itself."
The filing disclosed that the employee stockholders of Bcom3 have placed their almost 15.4 million shares of Class A common stock in a voting trust, which the four executives oversee as voting trustees.
The two who are current top managers are Roger A. Haupt, 53, chairman and chief executive, formerly of Leo, and Craig D. Brown, 49, president and chief operating officer, formerly of MacManus. The two who were top managers until retiring earlier this year are Roy J. Bostock, 60, the former chairman, who led MacManus and D'Arcy Masius for many years, and Richard B. Fizdale, 61, the former vice chairman, who led Leo and Burnett for many years.
All four executives are directors of Bcom3. Mr. Bostock and Mr. Fizdale, who are among the largest shareholders of Bcom3, are serving as executive consultants, according to the filing.
A majority of voting trustees must approve certain actions under the voting trust; in other instances, all four must agree. But in one instance, Mr. Brown and Mr. Bostock can outvote Mr. Haupt and Mr. Fizdale: If by Jan. 31, 2002, Bcom3 has not completed what the filing called "a qualifying initial public offering," then Mr. Brown and Mr. Bostock have three votes between them rather than two -- giving them a majority -- to approve actions "that may be required in connection with an initial public offering."
In other words, if Bcom3 does not go public by that date, the executives from what had been the Leo side of the agency company will go from sharing with their counterparts an equal voice in the fate of Bcom3 to running the risk of being automatically outvoted. If, however, Bcom3 goes public by next Jan. 31, those special voting rights for Mr. Brown and Mr. Bostock are ended.
Under a public offering, Dentsu, which coincidentally also plans to go public in the future, would be limited to a 25 percent stake in Bcom3. If there is no public sale of stock by March 14, 2002, Dentsu must be given a chance to buy all of Bcom3 before any other agency company, the filing stipulates. Two of the seven current members of the Bcom3 board are appointed by Dentsu, which controls all the Class B common stock of Bcom3, almost 4.3 million shares.
According to the filing, Mr. Haupt received $2.2 million last year in salary, bonus and other compensation, followed by Mr. Fizdale at $1.98 million, Mr. Bostock at $1.79 million and Mr. Brown at $1.55 million.
As for Bcom3, revenue for 2000 was $1.83 billion. There was a loss of $65.6 million resulting from a nonrecurring charge of $71.9 million and an amortization charge of $64.9 million, both stemming from the merger that formed the agency company.
The 20 biggest clients of Bcom3 accounted for 48.5 percent of revenue last year, the filing stated; they included General Motors, Philip Morris and Procter & Gamble. One client, not identified, was described as "a significant source of revenue," representing 12 percent of the total by itself. The Tribune article last week, and an article this week in the trade publication Adweek, suggested the client was Procter, which works with Burnett, D'Arcy Masius and other Bcom3 units like the Starcom MediaVest Group.
American operations accounted for 52.1 percent of Bcom3 revenue in 2000, the filing said, followed by European operations at 28.3 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); RANKINGS (74%); COMMON STOCK (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); WPP PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: BCOM3 GROUP 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); JAPAN (71%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2001 

 
