

601 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO;
Getting Down to What Makes America High

BYLINE: By ANDY MEISLER; Andy Meisler's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was about the animated series "Dilbert."

DATELINE: UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif.

 BODY:
SEVERAL years ago, the Oscar-winning director Robert Zemeckis was making a movie on location when he discovered that one of his principal cast members had a serious drinking problem.
The actor failed to show up for a night scene he was to appear in. After a costly delay, it was discovered that a local bartender, having watched the actor drink himself into insensibility, had driven him back to his motel. 
 As Mr. Zemeckis remembered it during an interview in his office on the Universal Studios backlot, his immediate reaction was swift and terrible: at 2 A.M. he phoned the local doctor who was on call for the film company, summoned him to the set and proceeded to berate him, loudly blaming him and him alone for the actor's inebriated state.
"Irrational? Of course," Mr. Zemeckis said. "I would hope that I wouldn't react the same way again. But it was simply the unbelievable frustration of not being in control of this problem."
He shook his head ruefully. His story, he admitted, is a "perfect parable" for society's chronically wrongheaded approach to the complicated problem of addiction.
"One thing that quickly becomes apparent," he said, "is that there is no solution to the problem. You can't control what is basically a personal journey. You can't legislate sobriety."
Not that American legislators haven't tried. In fact, Mr. Zemeckis -- a 48-year-old Hollywood filmmaker not formerly even vaguely associated with the low-profile world of nonfiction television -- has made a two-hour documentary on this very subject.
Titled "The Pursuit of Happiness: Smoking, Drinking and Drugging in the 20th Century," the film is to have its premiere on the Showtime cable network on Sept. 13 as part of "In the 20th Century," a millennium-related series using well-known directors to take on major subjects of their choosing. It is a rare full-length examination of a topic that lends itself easily to rousing slogans and pithy sound bites.
Indeed, it is with the help of dozens of these fleeting but oh-so-emphatic references to drugs, alcohol, tobacco and addiction that Mr. Zemeckis makes his main points. He culled them from sources as varied as Presidential press conferences, the utterances of Presidential "drug czars," newsreels, beer commercials, old magazine ads, old sitcoms like "Leave It to Beaver," standup comedy routines, exploitation films like "Reefer Madness" and Hollywood blockbusters (including his own).
"We came up with hundreds of hours of wonderful material," said Mr. Zemeckis. One can see, for example, Desi Arnaz hawking Camels, Newt Gingrich advocating the death penalty for drug dealing, Jack Webb pontificating on the horrors of LSD, a gaggle of tobacco executives swearing that cigarettes aren't addictive and a psychedelically dressed Sonny Bono urging his fans "not to become potheads."
Interspersed with these half-forgotten audiovisual artifacts are on-camera interviews with numerous historians, former addicts, addiction counselors and other experts, including a spokesman for Alcoholics Anonymous, an advocate of medical marijuana use, a libertarian proponent of drug decriminalization, the author of "Denial Is Not a River in Egypt" and the radio personality Dr. Demento, a connoisseur of drug-soaked pop music from Cab Calloway to Kurt Cobain.
"It was amazing what we discovered," said Mr. Zemeckis. "For instance: when I started this project, I thought that the so-called drug crisis was something that was happening right now; our generation's problem, as bad as it's ever been. But it turns out that the crisis has been going on forever -- and actually, the worst period in our country's history was the 1830's, when the entire country was on a bender and everybody was walking around drunk. Actually, the country has been sobering up pretty interestingly since then."
Among the other arguments made in "The Pursuit of Happiness": that American society has habitually criminalized the substances used primarily by minorities (i.e., opium for Asian immigrants and marijuana and cocaine for African-Americans) while legalizing those used by white adults (i.e., beer, alcohol and tobacco). That the advent of Prohibition in the 1920's, far from springing full-blown from a groundswell of public indignation, was in large part an economic imperative pushed by industrialists like Henry Ford who wanted reliable, sober workers for their new assembly lines. That antidrug public service announcements and school programs, though well-meaning and organized with creativity and passion, have had little proven effect on drug use.
Also: that the search for pleasure, chemical-based or otherwise, is a not "problem" that can be addressed as if it somehow stands apart from our very identities as Americans and human beings. One of the most striking moments in the documentary is at the beginning when an actor recites the "pursuit of happiness" clause in the Declaration of Independence against a background of images ranging from public inebriation to a smiling little girl twirling herself dizzy on a tree swing.
"You know," intones one of the experts, "the impulse to alter what we ordinarily call ordinary waking consciousness is inborn."
Perhaps the most provocative aspect of "Smoking, Drinking and Drugging" is that its approach is accepted by the very experts and authority figures usually arrayed on the other side of the ledger.
"Considering that it wasn't intended to be an antidrug piece, but a comprehensive and sophisticated treatment of a very complex issue, I thought it was great," said Ginna Marston, one of Mr. Zemeckis's interviewees and a spokeswoman for Parternship for a Drug-Free America, the advertising-industry coalition that produces the well-known antidrug public service announcements ("This is your brain on drugs").
"When we signed on to Bob doing this," Mark Zakarin, Showtime's executive vice president for original programming, said carefully, "we realized that he was going to bring a point of view to it. All we asked was there be an intelligent framework to his subjectivity, and inside that framework enough objective reality that we can all agree on."
BEFORE his current project, the sum of Mr. Zemeckis's experience with the documentary form was in the early 1970's, during a short stint as an assistant news editor at a Chicago television station. Mr. Zakarin maintains that inexperience was never a problem. Mr. Zemeckis didn't see it as an obstacle, either.
"I'm addicted to documentaries," he said. "That's all I watch on television. It started with "The American Experience," on PBS, and now I watch the History Channel, the Learning Channel -- everything."
Mr. Zemeckis was born and reared in the Chicago area. He says he was a heavy drinker in college -- a habit, he adds, that disappeared once he transferred to film school at the University of Southern California. After making several unsuccessful feature films in the 1970's and early 1980's, he had a run of hits, beginning with "Romancing the Stone" in 1984. Soon after came "Back to the Future" (1985), "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" (1988) and "Forrest Gump" (1994). For the latter, he won the Academy Award for best director.
After finishing "Contact" with Jodie Foster in 1997, he took some time off and began to think about doing a documentary. A magazine article caught his eye, about the Gold Cure, a turn-of-the-century treatment for alcoholism, quite popular at the time, that in hindsight was totally ineffective.
"I said to myself, 'You know, in all of the documentaries I've seen, I've never heard anybody talk about the history of addiction," he said.
He then got in touch with the producers of the PBS history series "The American Experience," who told him that they had already broadcast an episode about the temperance movement. They referred him to Showtime.
That network signed him up for "In the 20th Century" (the other directors participating are Garry Marshall, Barry Levinson, Robert Townshend, Norman Jewison and Gregory Nava); approved a $500,000 budget; referred him to Susan Emerling, a writer-researcher who has worked with the noted documentarian Barbara Kopple, and gave him the go-ahead.
Mr. Zemeckis, who conducted each of the original interviews in the documentary, said he had particularly enjoyed working in the editing room, finding the story he wanted to tell amid miles of film and tape.
Much about the subject was depressing and confusing, he said, but he added that he had no hesitation screening his finished product for his 13-year-old son.
"Yeah, sure, I worry about him getting involved with those things," said Mr. Zemeckis. "And, sure, I wonder what I would say to him when the time comes.
"In fact, that's the last question I asked of everyone I interviewed. And almost all of them told me the same thing: ultimately, all you can do is love them and tell them the truth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Zemeckis, whose documentary on addiction in America is to be broadcast on Showtime. (James Sorensen/Showtime); Scenes from "The Pursuit of Happiness: Smoking, Drinking amd Drugging" showing alcoholism in early America, top, and promotions for smoking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); BEER & ALE (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LSD (71%); SMOKING (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (50%); 

PERSON: ZEMECKIS, ROBERT; MEISLER, ANDY NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



602 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
The Troubling Effect of a New Nassau Transfer Tax

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
WARREN REDEKER feels it is his hard luck that the three-bedroom ranch in Mineola that he has owned as an investment for the last 10 years and recently placed on the market for $240,000 is in Nassau County and not in Suffolk.
For come closing time, assuming that he receives his asking price, Mr. Redeker will have to write a $2,400 check to the Nassau County Clerk to comply with a 1 percent real estate transfer tax that the county recently imposed on sellers. The new tax, which cannot be listed as a deduction on Federal tax returns, is the highest in the state, equaled only by New York City's. 
 The new legislation affects any real estate sale without a binding contract and a down payment deposited in a bank before Aug. 15. The tax, which is levied on the entire selling price, is being added to the existing New York State transfer tax, which amounts to 0.4 percent of the selling price.
"I am pretty angry because the only reason this tax has been imposed is to make up for the shortfalls in the Nassau County budget and that, basically, was due to incompetence," said Mr. Redeker, who works in Manhattan as an insurance agent.
Dubbed the Gulotta Tax after Thomas S. Gulotta, Nassau's Republican County Executive, the new tax is sending storm signals through the local real estate industry, with predictions that already expensive housing in Nassau will get even more expensive if owners pass along the new tax to buyers.
"In a seller's market, the world is your oyster and if you have any savvy you will either increase the price or say to the buyer, you can buy at this price but you have to absorb the tax," said Howard W. Goldson, a Commack lawyer who is counsel to the Long Island Board of Realtors.
But sellers say raising prices is not so easily done. "My house is only worth what someone is going to pay for it," Mr. Redeker said. "The way I see it, it's money out of my pocket."
The tax is particularly onerous because it "singles out a small segment of the population and penalizes them, and that isn't right," said State Assemblyman David S. Sidikman of Old Bethpage. Mr. Sidikman and a majority of his fellow Democrats in the State Legislature opposed the tax, which needed state consent, but the measure was approved Aug. 3 along with other state budget bills. The 18-member County Legislature, with all four Democrats opposed, imposed the tax Aug. 9.
The transfer tax is expected to generate $50 million to $60 million annually for the county. David A. Vieser, a spokesman for Mr. Gulotta, said it was the first of many measures the county would be taking to address the $192.3 million deficit it had incurred as of the end of 1998. The transfer tax was implemented first, he said, because it had to be acted upon before the State Legislature went into recess.
Many homeowners placing their houses on the market are older people "for whom this is their retirement fund," Mr. Sidikman said. "They have raised their children, paid their taxes, been good citizens and now that they are about to leave, the Republican Party of Nassau County says, 'Thanks a lot, give us 1 percent as a goodbye present.' "
The tax must be paid on any transfer of property, both residential and commercial, including co-ops and vacant land. Under a sunset provision, it is to expire Jan. 31, 2001.
ONE option sellers may turn to is to pull their houses off the market for the next 18 months "causing a shortage and an increase in prices because the market is already tight," said Michael McHugh, the president of Continental Capital, a mortgage banking firm in Huntington and a member of the executive board of the Empire State Mortgage Bankers Association.
Desmond Ryan, the executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island, a real estate lobbying group in Hauppauge, said many commercial and industrial developers had been telling him that they were putting their sales on hold.
"The impact of this will be behavior modification," he said, "Cash-rich developers will say, 'We'll wait' " until the tax expires. Or, if they need cash, he added, "they'll refinance the building."
Adding a 1 percent mortgage tax to the .75 percent state mortgage tax currently paid by buyers taking out mortgages had also been under discussion, but the transfer tax was adopted instead.
"They dropped the mortgage tax because they were afraid people wouldn't move to Nassau," said Barbara Frechter, a Forest Hills, Queens, real estate broker who is the president of the Long Island Board of Realtors. "The transfer tax is evil, but it's the lesser of two evils because sellers are receiving money and it doesn't hurt as much to take the money from the proceeds."
On the other hand, Ms. Frechter noted, some sellers -- those facing foreclosure, for example -- walk away with very little, if any, cash, as do those who have to pay off high mortgages.
But Ms. Frechter predicted that in many cases buyers will wind up paying the tax, especially in today's strong real estate market.
"Sellers always want to know what they will net on a house after they pay off the mortgage and all their expenses," she said. "I believe they will add the tax on to the price of the house and that is going to hurt a lot of young people buying homes because they already have a difficult time even with two people working."
When builders sell houses, 9 out of 10 times they transfer all tax obligations over to buyers at the closing, said Robert A. Weiboldt, the executive director of the Long Island Builders Institute in Hauppauge. "So this will mean a 1 percent increase on the price of new houses in Nassau County," he said. "And all the buyer is getting for that 1 percent is the privilege of moving into a high tax area like Nassau."
For the purchaser of a new $250,000 house, for example, combined state and county transfer taxes will now be $3,500 instead of $1,000 paid previously.
"This will really hurt the real estate market because it will price some people out of the market," said James J. Lynch, a Williston Park real estate lawyer. He reasoned that the transfer tax was adopted because "it is an immediate gratification tax." County property tax increases could not have been collected until 2001, he said, "and the county couldn't wait."
Randy L. Kaplan, manager of media and government relations at the Board of Realtors, called the new law a "Band-Aid" that did not address such ills as inequitable property-tax assessments, which are costing the county millions annually in tax refunds.
"All around the country, they are trying to generate programs that will foster homeownership," he said. "Why does Nassau County have to turn around and do something detrimental to the American dream?"
W E also did not feel it appropriate for the county to add new taxes without putting out a complete comprehensive plan that looks at additional alternatives for paying off short- and long-term debt," said Mitchell Pally, vice president of legislative and economic affairs at the Long Island Association, a Melville-based business group.
Robert Siegler, a retired executive of a communications company, with a two-family investment house to sell in Williston Park said he never realized a new tax was even being discussed until his broker, Evelyn Atanas of Williston Park, informed him when he put his house on the market.
"It was a very sneaky way of putting across a tax, which most certainly hurts everybody," he said.
He and his wife, Marie, are asking $340,000 for the house.
"I don't believe I can get a higher price, but I may not accept an offer that I might have accepted before the tax went into effect, so this will probably drive up the cost for buyers," Mr. Siegler said.
They had been looking in Nassau for a condominium to replace their Melville residence, which they are also selling, he noted. But the tax, which he said he doubts will ever be lifted, is giving them second thoughts. "Now we're looking in the Smithtown direction," he said.
Still, few real estate professionals worry that the new transfer tax will sway most sellers or buyers.
"If they are serious sellers and have to move, they are going to sell and not dramatically change their plans," said Audrey Livingstone, owner of the Century 21 Annettes real estate agency in Uniondale.
"Nassau is very desirable place and we have a lot of people who want to live there," said Ms. Frechter, the Board of Realtors president. "But it's the lower-priced houses that worry me because of the cost to young couples."
On the East End of Suffolk a 2 percent transfer tax earmarked for the purchase of open space was approved by voters last November and took effect April 1. But there, it is the buyer who pays the tax and exemptions, depending on which town, ranging from the first $150,000 to the first $250,000 of the price of a house, were implemented to protect moderate-income buyers.
"People are not smiling when they pay the tax," said Michael DeSario, a partner of the Cook Pony Farm brokerage in East Hampton. "But business is booming."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren Redeker in front of house in Mineola he owns as an investment and has put up for sale. He is upset at county's new 1 percent transfer tax. "It's money out of my pocket," he says. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); INSURANCE (72%); APPROVALS (66%); WEATHER (65%); 

PERSON: WARREN REDEKER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



603 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Lumber Shortage Raises Cost of Building a House

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
ALL set to sign that contract to build your new home? Don't be surprised if your builder has inserted a clause saying that if the price of lumber goes up during construction, so will the price of your house.
Shortages of lumber in the Northeast, caused in part by a home-building boom that put demand far ahead of supply, resulted in a 30 percent rise in prices from January to July of this year. 
 For an average 2,000-square-foot home the increase in the cost of lumber is about $4,000, according to Joanne Carroll, a director of the Connecticut Home Builders' Association and president of JMC Resources, a housing research firm. The increase for a trophy house in a swank Connecticut suburb can spiral up by $10,000 or more.
"A 6,000-square-foot house can take six months to build and make the buyer a victim of the market," said Norton C. Wheeler, lumber buyer for United Builders' Supply in Waterford and Niantic, Conn., and in Richmond and Westerly, R.I. "But at the lower end, even though a small house goes up faster, a sharp rise in lumber costs can knock a first-time buyer out of the box."
In recent years shortages have been exacerbated by cutbacks in Canadian lumber, the primary source for homes in the Northeastern United States, that began in 1996 when a quota on importing Canadian lumber was imposed to protect United States prices. Shipments fell from 16.2 billion to 14.7 billion board feet annually, said Nsimba Kinuani, chief economist for the Quebec Lumber Manufacturers' Association.
Other cutbacks resulted from a series of Federal logging restrictions that began in 1990, when 40 percent of American lumber came from Federal forests. Today the figure is down to 10.7 percent, said Butch Bernhardt, spokesman for the Western Wood Products Association in Portland, Ore. "Production in 1987 was 23.9 billion board feet," he said. "Last year it was 16.8 billion board feet."
Increasing volatility in the price of lumber has led developers and builders to seek more stability in overall expenses by focusing on eliminating waste and reducing labor costs. Labor has been a problem anyway. What had been a large pool of skilled construction workers has shrunk to a puddle. Builders believe that the men are finding less stressful jobs in a robust economy that in Connecticut has resulted in a 3 to 4 percent unemployment rate.
An enormous time and labor saver is the truss -- for floors and roofs. Manufactured of middle- and lower-grade woods under extreme pressure and delivered ready to install, it uses leftover wood and is stronger than conventional framing lumber. Trusses do not pop nails and they can be fabricated to lengths of as much as 80 feet. Floor trusses render floors virtually squeak proof and they have no need for supporting cellar beams and columns.
Another improvement in construction efficiency is panelization -- in which complete sections of framing that can extend to a width of 22 feet and a height of 12 feet are delivered ready to install, with exterior sheathing attached if desired. They require one or two unskilled laborers to set in place, rather than half a dozen experienced carpenters to build them from scratch.
While these elements are more expensive than traditional lumber, the extra cost is compensated for by savings in labor, construction time and even paperwork. A few bills for completed trusses and panels cover what hundreds of invoices for dozens of types and sizes of lumber, nails and other hardware cover in conventional construction.
Carl Kuehner, president of Building & Land Technologies in Wilton, builders of subdivisions and custom homes, has been using trusses for a few years, but just started panelization. He enumerated some of the advantages.
"Panels are numbered in sequence so you can't make a mistake," he said. "You don't have deliveries of 2- by-4's that are wrong and have to be returned, or wood that's cut wrong by a carpenter on site. Every nail is in place so there are no worries about lazy laborers skimping on nails. There is much less time for the building to be exposed to the elements, and you don't have to pick up leftover lumber."
A COMPANY in Shelton called B.T. Building Systems produces trusses, panels and a complete line of components for houses. The year-old firm describes itself as the only fully automated building component manufacturer on the East Coast. Named for its owners, Arnold Van H. Bernhard and Harold C. Thomas 3d, it is also a home builder. In executing what it calls its Fast Frame system, it can produce the framing, roof and floor trusses for a home or apartment complex to precise measurements in record time. The blueprints are entered into a computer and the building is produced by the stroke of a button that sets computerized saws and assembly machines in motion.
"The factory can do from four to six 3,000-square-foot homes in a single eight-hour shift," said Duffy Sasser, plant manager. "Where a crew of five carpenters might take 20 minutes to make and stand a wall, we can run 20 walls in that time. Framing is the biggest time consumer," he said. The words wall or panel in this context mean a "wall" of pre-assembled framing for a house.
For some developers and builders, taking the sting out of skyrocketing lumber prices can be accomplished by playing the commodities market.
William A. Ferrigno, owner-president of Sunlight Construction in Avon, builders of homes priced from $250,000 to over $1 million, invests in lumber futures. "We bought a 5-month lumber futures contract in February and made about $20,000 when prices peaked in July, but we spent $16,000 on product for three houses," he said, resulting in a modest $4,000 profit minus a $100 brokerage fee. Better than nothing, or a total loss in a down market, he said. While there is risk involved, most big builders have their sources within the industry for predicting major price swings.
Mr. Kuehner is also "hedging the market," he said, "either by buying lumber futures or getting the vendors to lock in the price for a certain period -- maybe six months. We don't sell any houses beyond that. In five months we reset the price based on the market." He noted that small builders don't have those options.
According to John W. Hall, head of J. M. Heinike, lumber wholesalers in Saratoga Springs, big-box stores like Home Depot and Lowe's are major lumber shortage generators. "If I'm a big consumer," he said, "I want to insure my supply, so I go to a big sawmill and get a contract based on a published lumber price every Friday. That sawmill may end up with 70 percent of the output tied to that contract, so only 30 percent is traded freely on the market, driving up the price."
Since late July, he said, people stopped buying wood, adding that it was "an emotional thing -- too expensive." Distributors lowered prices in August to entice buyers, Mr. Hall said, then raised them a few days later but not to their former high levels.
Mr. Wheeler believes that in the next few weeks distributors will begin to ship lumber ordered at the lower price. And what that means, he said, "is that prices will trickle down to the builder and home buyer in September."
A strong competitor for wood trusses, as well as an alternative to conventional framing lumber, is steel. Popular in California, Florida and Hawaii, it has not caught on in the Northeast. "There have been a few custom homes in Connecticut and Long Island, and it is being used in the Nehemiah projects -- subsidized low cost housing in Brooklyn and the Bronx," said John Pugliese, technical engineer at Super Stud Building Products in New York City.
Its advantages are its light weight and strength that is as great or greater than lumber. Greater truss spans can be produced simply by changing the gauge. "Steel doesn't burn, so insurance costs are lower, and steel prices are a lot more stable than lumber," he said.
But builders resist having to train crews in steel, teaching them to use screws instead of nails, eliminate saw cutting, and builders face higher plumbing and electrical costs because those trades won't work on steel-framed jobs at regular prices.
Steel's acceptance in other regions, said Lisa Stevens, marketing director for the North American Steel Framing Alliance in Washington, is based on practical considerations. It is impervious to Hawaii's hordes of termites, resistant to earthquake damage in California and it withstands Florida hurricanes.
Hurricanes also have a more direct effect on the lumber market. Lumberyards and construction companies in locations that are susceptible to hurricanes stock up on half-inch plywood, which is American made and now sells wholesale for about $2.88 for a 4- by 8-foot sheet. "Hurricane season shoots up the price of plywood," said Mr. Wheeler.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Graham Davis, superintendent at site in Avon, holds new I-joist (right) that is replacing conventional joist (left) because of lumber shortage. Riverview Condominiums in Newtown (left) uses premade roof trusses. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURERS' JUNCTION RAILROAD CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES; LABOR CONSTRUCTION COSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); SHIPMENTS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); WORKPLACE STRESS (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



604 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: In the Region /New Jersey;
Long Branch Hopes to Start Shore Redevelopment

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
IN 1997, Long Branch put in place an innovative redevelopment plan to transform 150 acres of its faded Atlantic Ocean coastline into a new village.
The plan -- which not only sets guidelines for developers but incorporates the state's coastal development regulations into local zoning -- attracted interest from developers and last year the city started negotiating with three to rebuild its shoreline. But none moved forward, leaving the redevelopment district mostly desolate and the plan untested. The plan -- the result of years of discussions among city officials, residents and business groups and known as Long Branch Tomorrow -- was developed by the Thompson Design Group of Boston, which designed Pier 17 and the Fulton Market Building at South Street Seaport in Manhattan. 
 "I would not say we are frustrated," said Howard H. Woolley Jr., the business administrator for this seven-square-mile city with 29,000 residents. "But we are anxious to finalize a deal and get a shovel in the ground."
Local officials are hopeful that will soon happen and start a domino effect for the rest of the redevelopment district, where up to 1,300 residences, an entertainment center and some 600,000 square feet of commercial space are planned. A second round of negotiations with different developers for three areas in the district is now under way and the Applied Companies, of Hoboken, is the farthest along, not only in this round but since the redevelopment effort began, Mr. Woolley said.
In June, Applied, known for its residential redevelopment activity along the Hudson River waterfront, entered a memorandum of understanding with the city to redevelop most of the 25-acre Beachfront North site into up to 400 renovated town houses and rental apartments -- mostly new, but some renovated. There will also be a 20,000-square-foot commercial component, comprising new and existing stores on the site, between Madison and Seaview Avenues. Land between the project and the beach will be for recreational uses.
Details of the project are expected to be hammered out by the middle of next month at which time Applied would be designated the redeveloper of Beachfront North, said Mr. Woolley. Also being discussed is whether the city will provide tax abatement, a matter Applied intends to pursue.
Gregory S. Russo, a vice president of Applied, said the project is estimated to cost $50 million, including $8 million to buy the land. He said that construction was expected to start in six to nine months and that the project would be built over the next three years.
The intent of the Beachfront North project -- and by extension the redevelopment plan -- is to reposition Long Branch as a year-round community, not just a seasonal resort. It is also meant to inject new economic life into the city, which watched the tourism it relied on for its tax base erode in the 1950's when residents and then businesses fled for shore towns farther south.
There have been other attempts to revitalize the oceanfront, but each ran afoul of local politics, community opposition or burdensome approvals. The last, in the mid-80's, resulted in a spate of condominiums and a Hilton Hotel before the activity was derailed by cumbersome regulations. But even with both state and local beachfront regulations identical, thus obviating the need for approvals on both levels, the city has not consummated a development deal.
The plan can be modified "without destroying the integrity of what we want to accomplish, " said Carl Turner, the city's planning director. But some of the earlier developers wanted to modify it too much or asked for too much, which would have caused Long Branch to lose more than it would have gained, he said.
Ron Kaplowitz, a board member of Long Branch Tomorrow, added: "For those who are saying, 'What is taking so long?': It's a long process and a very valuable process when the art of compromise is tested, and the city is getting closer, it is not sitting back."
The International Resort Center, of Colorado Springs, Colo., last year bought the Hilton Hotel for $21 million and invested $10 million more to refurbish it as a conference center and resort. And just outside the southern edge of the redevelopment area developers have built or are building two residential projects with a total of 142 units.
The city's beachfront has been restored under a $20 million Federal program. Remnants of an old amusement pier destroyed by a 1987 fire have been razed by the city, which received a $125,000 state grant to study the feasibility of building a new pier for retail, entertainment or transportation uses, or a mix of them, said Mr. Woolley.
The city also acquired a vacant armory in the Beachfront North area from a developer who did not proceed with a plan to recycle it. Now the city is negotiating a deal with a new developer to raze the structure and replace it with a year-round beach and health club, Mr. Woolley said.
"It sends the message that the city is serious about the redevelopment plan," he said, adding that the city would soon sign memorandums of understanding with developers for two other projects.
One involves developing housing and shops next to the proposed pier. The other entails plans by the owners of the Oceanplace Conference Resort, the former Hilton hotel, to build a second tower and perhaps expand its conference and meeting rooms. And negotiations continue with the Advance Group of Bedminister to develop a retail center with up to 90,000 square feet of space.
The state has proposed new rules for development in the coastal region that would be aligned with its state Development and Redevelopment Plan, which encourages growth where highways and utilities are in place and discourages it in less developed areas.
REFERRING to the 1973 Coastal Area Facility Review Act, Judy Jengo, a deputy commissioner at the Department of Environmental Protection, said, "CAFRA is being updated to reflect smart growth." She said that the new rules would not only "make the process more predictable," but would also, for the first time, implement the principles of the state plan. Ms. Jengo said the new coastline development rules tied in with state guidelines on development were expected to be adopted by year's end.
But there is opposition from some legislators who successfully defeated two previous drafts of the regulations, as well as from the New Jersey Builders Association. "They won't work," said Patrick O'Keefe, the association's executive vice president. "They rely on an outdated and unimplemented state plan."
Whatever happens to state regulations, Long Branch's plan remains in place.
Mr. Russo, of Applied, said meeting state regulations under the city's plan was appealing and should "make the process quicker." But he said his company got involved with the Beachfront North project because "the ocean is an incredible draw," and it is an opportunity "to create summer and primary housing all at once."
As now planned, he said, the project would begin on the site's 15 empty acres and include some 300 housing units, 75 percent of them town houses and the rest rental apartments. The town houses will range in size from 1,500 to 2,200 square feet and in price from $225,000 to $440,000. Rents for apartments of 850 to 1,300 square feet will range from $900 to $1,800.
The hope, he said, is that the existing housing in the area improves on its own. But if that does not happen those units will renovated or replaced with new ones, bringing the number of units in the project to 400.
And what of the city's checkered development history? "We see enough here that is positive," Mr. Russo said, adding that the city "is also proactive."
Applied is also no stranger to urban redevelopment, having developed housing along the Hudson riverfront in Hoboken and Jersey City. Mr. Russo said the formula his company used in those cities would be used again in Long Branch: "Leverage the oceanfront views with the right product," he said, "and the demand will be there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory S. Russo, a vice president of Applied Companies, at Long Branch redevelopment area. Applied has a memorandum of understanding to redevelop most of Beachfront North site. (Michael Rafferty for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey, highlighting the Long Branch redevelopment area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLIED COMPANIES DESIGN GROUP INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLIED COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BRANCH (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ZONING (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); CITIES (71%); TRENDS (66%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HOWARD H WOOLLEY JR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



605 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: In San Francisco, Developers Bet on High-Rises

BYLINE: By JOHN McCLOUD 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY, a home with a view here has meant living on one of the many hills for which the city is celebrated. But a group of developers hopes to convince at least a few thousand residents that living on the upper floors of a contemporary glass and steel high-rise is as romantic and sophisticated as living in an Edwardian building atop Russian Hill or in Pacific Heights.
Judging by the response to Avalon Towers, a 16-story, 226-unit apartment complex that is the first high-rise apartment project to open in San Francisco in a decade, the developers' prospects look strong. According to Shelby Campbell, a development manager for the project's developers, AvalonBay Communities Inc. of Alexandria, Va., 146 units have rented since the two-building complex opened in July, with new leases being signed daily. 
 Five other residential high-rise complexes are in construction, with more in discussion. Developers of four of the other projects are from New York, which has led some observers to refer to the trend as Manhattanization. So far, the residential complexes have attracted minimal criticism, a rarity in this often-contentious city.
The projects with New York origins are a condominium complex, with two 17-story towers and one 16-story tower by the Reliance Development Group; a 40-story mixed hotel and condominium project by Millennium Partners; a 51-story mixed condominium and apartment tower by Swig-Burris Equities, and a 39-story apartment tower by the Related Companies. All but the Related project are under construction.
According to Kent Swig, a Swig-Burris partner and a former San Franciscan whose family owned the landmark Fairmont Hotel atop Nob Hill from the 1930's until last year, his company's $125 million project will be the tallest residential building west of the Mississippi.
The remaining two projects have no New York connection. The Monahan Pacific Construction Corporation of San Rafael, Calif., has a 13-story condominium building in construction, and Carpenter & Company of Cambridge, Mass., will build another 40-story combined hotel and condominium tower a block from the Millennium Group's.
All the new projects are clustered in the northeast section of an area known as "south of Market," which lies south of Market Street, the city's main downtown commercial corridor.
The burgeoning district is home to most of the software, multimedia and Internet companies that have quickly become a major force in the city's economy. One part of the district has earned the nickname Multimedia Gulch.
The area is also home to numerous shops, restaurants, clubs, museums, performance spaces and, most recently, a 360,000-square-foot entertainment complex with a 15-screen cinema.
A new stadium for the San Francisco Giants baseball team is in construction at the district's southern edge, as is a second campus for the University of California at San Francisco.
Until recently, the area held mostly warehouses, light industrial facilities and lower-rent office buildings left from the days when San Francisco was a major port. These older buildings became popular with startup high-technology ventures, which appreciated their ostensibly anticorporate esthetic. The influx of these companies has spurred conversion of substantially more than a million square feet of vacant or underutilized properties to offices with annual rents of $40 a square foot.
Alan Mark, president of the Mark Company and sales director for the Reliance Group project, Brannan Place, calls the intense concentration a major selling point for residential development.
"A lot of people are working 60 hours a week." he said. "When they get home, they want to walk to everything. This is the only place in the city you can do that."
Mr. Mark is confident that Brannan Place will sell quickly, despite prices of $500 a square foot for units averaging 1,150 square feet. San Francisco's homebuying market is extremely tight and buyers appear willing to pay what it costs to get in.
The rental market is equally tight. According to most real estate companies, the city's apartment vacancy rate has hovered around 1 percent for 18 months and rents have risen dramatically. Rents at Avalon Towers range from $2,400 to $5,400 for one- and two-bedroom units of 800 to 1,650 square feet.
The residents of the new projects will not represent a typical cross section of San Francisco. At Avalon Towers, Ms. Campbell says, 85 percent of the tenants earn more than $100,000 a year. Nearly three-quarters are single or divorced and 60 percent are under 40. Two-thirds are new to the city.
Mark Levy, a real estate developer who moved here from Silicon Valley following a divorce, says he chose his two-bedroom unit because of its location in the heart of the city and for the amenities and views. Avalon Towers has a largely unobstructed view of San Francisco Bay from three sides and of the city's western hills from the fourth.
Mr. Levy, who relocated to California from Stamford, Conn., a year ago, says he likes the project's cosmopolitan image. "I quickly determined I didn't want old, didn't want ground floor, didn't want walkup," he said, adding, "It's simple, easy, free living."
Mr. Swig is counting on people like Mr. Levy for his project, which will have 335 rental apartments and 174 condominiums. Though rents and prices have not yet been set, he says the building, called the Century and scheduled for completion in 2001, is aimed at the upper end of the market.
According to Dan Murphy, an AvalonBay vice president, most of the projects represent a response to market demand rather than explicit city policy, though the Millennium, Related and Carpenter developments are in an official redevelopment zone and are partly funded with tax-exempt bonds issued by the city's Redevelopment Agency.
City officials, however, have expressed support for all the projects and are taking steps to encourage more of them. Susanna Montana, a senior planner for the city, said that the Planning Department wanted to raise height limits on Rincon Hill, a 12-block area that includes Avalon Towers, to 350 feet from the current 250 to encourage development.
"We asked architects representing prospective buyers what they want to build and we asked property owners, workers and current residents what kind of area they would like to see," she said. "By and large, the people who are there every day want a 24-hour neighborhood. To get that, we need to get more people in there, and that means going up."
Whether San Franciscans will take to high-rise living in numbers sufficient to spur additional development remains to be seen, but Mr. Murphy is confident that they will.
"San Francisco is a world-class city, and there's a lot of people who would like to live here but haven't found the right type of place," he said. "I believe the market is pretty deep,"
Mr. Swig agrees. "I think the need is absolutely there," he said. "With the right context and right design, high-rise living is a wonderful way of life. It's not for everybody, but I think San Francisco needs it to attract the kind of people who will keep the economy moving forward in the 21st century."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newly built Avalon Towers in South of Market area. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 
Map of San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (70%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (54%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (70%); PACIFIC CONSTRUCTION CORP (64%); MILLENNIUM PARTNERS (54%); RELIANCE DEVELOPMENT GROUP INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); BASEBALL (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%); 

PERSON: MCCLOUD, JOHN KENT SWIG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



606 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 21; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Amid Boom, Jobs in Retailing Slip Away

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
AT a time when the Long Island economy is humming along -- sales tax revenue in the first seven months of this year was up 5.3 percent and the median price of homes in Nassau soared last year by 13.6 percent -- retail jobs are dwindling.
"Although Long Island gained 26,700 jobs overall in the 12 months ending in July, it lost 200 retail jobs during that period," said Pearl Kamer, chief economist of the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization. 
 In fact, the retail sector has steadily been losing jobs since 1988, the year before a major recession struck Long Island, according to Gary Huth, labor market analyst for the New York State Department of Labor's Long Island region.
"There was a sense on Long Island that jobs in the retail trade were the leading component in the job recovery," he said. "But the share of jobs in the retail trade is actually edging downward."
He said that in 1998, 18.3 percent of all jobs on Long Island were in retailing, compared with 1988, when they represented 19.2 percent of the job total. Not only did the retail sector not keep pace with the rest of the Island's economy, but the number of retail jobs actually dropped by 8,000 -- from 218,400 in 1988 to 210,400 last year.
Mr. Huth said there were 1,149,100 jobs on Long Island in 1998 -- 12,000 more than 1988.
"The economy has been percolating," he said. "That was a 1 percent increase in jobs in 10 years. At the same time, there has been a 3.7 percent drop in overall retail jobs."
Mr. Huth expressed surprise at the figures, saying they indicated that "Long Island retailers must be finding a more productive business model for achieving sales."
"There must be more sales per employee," he said. "Long Island is leading the nation in that area."
Those figures also came as a surprise to Bruce W. VanKleeck, vice president of member services of the National Retail Federation in Washington, who said that the "overall growth in jobs nationally has been in retail jobs."
"The retail sector employs 20 percent of U.S. workers, and industry sales last year were $2.7 trillion," he said. "I'm surprised to hear that on Long Island, with its high per capita ratios, retail jobs have not been accelerating."
Asked if the figures might indicate a saturation of retail businesses, Mr. VanKleeck said that while critics might say so, "as long as consumers spend disposable income, there is business to be had."
Ms. Kamer of the Long Island Association said sales taxes on Long Island, which are used as a proxy for retail sales, showed that Long Islanders were spending.
"If you look at the year-to-year increases, you will see that in April the increase in sales tax revenues in Nassau and Suffolk was 13.8 percent," she said. "If you look at March to March, it was 9.1 percent."
As in other years, Ms. Kamer said, sales slowed in June by 1.6 percent, but "came up nicely in July, increasing by 6.4 percent." She said they were expected to be strong in August and September to reflect back-to-school buying.
"Consumer purchasing power is strong," she said, adding that it was a reflection of rising salaries and a strong stock market.
"A lot of Long Islanders own stocks, which gives them an incentive to spend more freely," said Ms. Kamer. "If they don't cash them in, it is paper wealth, but people believe they are wealthier."
There are other Long Islanders who are actually wealthier because they have sold their homes, "which have greatly escalated in price in the last year or two," she pointed out. "The median sales price of homes in Nassau rose from $180,000 in 1997 to $204,500 in 1998 -- 13.6 percent. In Suffolk, it increased from $145,000 to $149,000, a 2.8 percent increase. When we get the figures for June, we'll see an even greater jump because demand for homes exceeds inventory. So this is motivating people to spend."
Ms. Kamer observed that retail sales were up an average of 5.3 percent in the first seven months of this year, "which is very, very good considering that the inflation rate in the region is 2.1 percent."
"But that doesn't explain why retail employment is down 200 jobs," she said. "My theory is that retailers are trying to remain competitive and improve their profit margins by keeping their labor costs as low as possible."
She said that in general, discount stores have done the best on Long Island while department stores with moderately priced apparel have not done as well.
"There is a lot of purchasing power on Long Island, but there are a lot of retailers," she said. "It's very competitive here. You also have big box retailers competing with each other, such as the Home Depots, Staples and BJ's. They are competing on price and learning to control inventory well. There are many analysts who believe that even for the level of affluence here there are too many retailers selling the same or similar products. And when the economy turns down, as inevitably it does because we have a cyclical economy, there will be some degree of shake-out among the retailers."
Harold J. Bordwin, vice president of Keen Realty Consultants in Great Neck, said the "competition in the retail industry is so intense that there is an incredible amount of pressure on retailers to do everything absolutely right."
He said Caldor, a department store that went out of business earlier this year, failed because it was not able to generate the sales it needed.
"And the competition is only getting worse with the Internet," Mr. Bordwin said. "How much time do people want to spend shopping for items in a store when they can do it from their homes or even from television?"
But he said people would still go to the store for the more expensive items because they "want to see and feel them before they spend their money."
Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan, pointed out that Caldor had intense competition from Wal-Mart, Kmart, and Target stores. And no sooner did Caldor vacate the stores, than K-Mart and another chain, Kohl's, bought them.
"In retailing, the strongest survives," he said. "You could make the argument that there are too many stores, but too many is good for the consumer because it drives prices down. Just look at supermarkets that are close to each other and the battles they have with prices. Who benefits? The consumer."
Richard A. Rauch, a marketing professor at the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University, said that supermarkets are doing "very, very poorly" as a result of competition. "To keep up their volume, they are cutting prices and doubling coupons," he said. "It's good for the consumer, but they are not making any money. That's true of Edwards, Waldbaum's and Pathmark."
He pointed out that Ahold, a Netherlands company that owns Edwards and Stop & Shop, recently bought Pathmark.
Among the most successful stores on Long Island are those that discount prices, such as those in the outlet centers in Riverhead and Bellport, Ms. Kamer noted.
"Long Islanders are attached to a bargain," she said. "The deep recession we had in the early 1990's contributed to that mentality and it never left. People here shop based on price and quality, but price may be first for many consumers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (57%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (57%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); SALES TAX (89%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART PEARL KAMER (74%); GARY HUTH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



607 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
2 Machines Are Needed: One for Time, One for Cash

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER 

 BODY:
END-OF-SUMMER Points to Ponder: 1) You can learn from your parents, and you can learn from the past, but can you learn from your parents' past? 2) Shouldn't this country be devoting all its resources to developing a workable time machine?
Let me explain. Our household has just played host to Amy, 13, who flew here from Wisconsin without adult accompaniment to visit my daughter Emily. By coincidence, my mother recently gave me a scrapbook from her own teen-age cross-country journey, made 60 years ago, also without adult accompaniment. 
 The two trips had their differences, of course. Mom traveled by train, since airplanes were still falling out of the sky on a regular basis in 1939. Also, she went east to west, from Philadelphia to California, and she was 19, not 13. Nonetheless, there are plenty of points of comparison between the trips, all of them pretty depressing.
For instance, the camaraderie of the road isn't what it used to be. Today, transportation workers and fellow travelers are something to be feared. Sixty years ago, they were partners in an adventure.
"There was a girl across the aisle who looked tired and bored," my mother wrote from the train, "so I wrote a note asking if she wanted someone to talk to, made it into a dart and sailed it across to her. She seemed pleased to have company and we got along famously." Amy threw no paper darts at fellow airplane passengers, but recent unpleasantness at Newark Airport tells us what would have happened if she had: "Dozens Injured as Child's Note Ignites Body-Slamming Fracas on Jet."
And what exactly has happened to celebrities in the last 60 years? Mom got into Paramount Studios, met Leslie Howard, had her picture taken with Jackie Cooper. When she ate lunch, Dorothy Lamour was at the next table.
Here in cruel 1999, I took Amy and Emily to a Yankees game. Afterward we waited an hour at the players' exit, hoping for a memorable moment. All we got was a glimpse of a couple of custom-made suits as the heartless heroes galloped onto the team bus without so much as a wave.
Even luck was better in 1939. In San Francisco, Mom and the fellow she had gone west to see, now known in our family as Dad, took in the Golden Gate International Exposition. Bell Telephone had an exhibit there offering free long-distance calls, a novelty at the time, to people who won a lucky-number drawing. It took her three trips to the exhibit, but Mom won the call, using it, naturally, to phone home.
Luck, however, has now been replaced by perverse fickleness, which is why I'm not driving a new motorcycle. Amy arrived from Wisconsin bearing gifts; I got a Harley-Davidson T-shirt, since the company is in Milwaukee. A few days later I'm wearing the shirt when I pop into a dry cleaner's to drop something off. There, in the corner, is the last thing one expects to see in a dry cleaner's: a lottery terminal. And a new scratch-off game is being promoted: "Ticket to Ride." Top prize: a Harley.
Why New Jersey is selling chances on Wisconsin motorcycles is unclear, but I know fate when I see it -- or I thought I did. I bought three tickets and flipped my car keys to the guy behind the counter. "It's all yours, pal," I told him. "Four-wheelers are for squares." I realize now that I should have scratched the tickets first.
Lastly, there is, of course, the financial comparison. For our three Yankees tickets I paid $87, roughly the cost of Mom's train fare from Philadelphia to San Francisco to Los Angeles and back. On the train, Mom could buy an elaborate dinner for 35 cents. After the Yankees game, we stopped at New York's Jekyll and Hyde Club and asked if they'd sell us dinner for 35 cents; once they stopped laughing, they sold us three Cokes for almost $10. A few days later we paid more to rent bowling shoes at Carolier Lanes in New Brunswick ($6) than Mom paid for . . . well, for practically anything.
Economists will say, "You're forgetting about inflation," but that's not the point. The point is, we need the time machine mentioned in the first paragraph. Imagine what we could do if we took a fistful of 1999 dollars back to 1939. For what Amy's trip cost, Mom could have made a lunar landing. For what the Yanks pay Clemens, we could have built a dozen more Hudson River crossings. For what we paid to bowl two games, we could have bought bowling shoes for every man, woman and child in New Jersey. Woulda looked great with the Harley-Davidson T-shirts.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CELEBRITIES (76%); TRAINS (75%); AIRPORTS (74%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); TELEPHONE RATES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: GENZLINGER, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



608 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 12; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: DESTINATIONS;
Smiling Cheese and Other Good Food

BYLINE: By JOSEPH D'AGNESE 

DATELINE: COLTS NECK

 BODY:
AN impatient dad tried to coax his toddler daughter into tasting a free sample from the cheese table at Delicious Orchards in Colts Neck. She pushed away his meager offering -- a tiny cube of white cheddar -- and lunged instead for a block of white and yellow mild cheddar molded into a smiley face.
Dad eventually gave in, dropping the Lancashire-and-Red Leicester cheese combo into his shopping cart. 
 Most people who flock to this local institution know what they're in for. It's the kind of place that lures customers with cookies and coffee, where old-fashioned wooden signs promise pies, breads and 40-cent doughnuts. Unsliced loaves of bread recline on red-and-white picnic napkins in wicker baskets, and cartons of cranberry juice and apple cider are never far from the potato bins.
In an inviting 25,000-square-foot retail space that resembles an oversize barn, shoppers can buy everything from fresh meats and chocolates to coffee beans, gift baskets and impeccably fresh produce.
It's hard to resist the charm. Delicious Orchards may be nestled on the grounds of a nearly 90-year-old apple orchard, but its managers and 300 employees run the place with modern-day savvy. Need a gift basket of fruit, apple crumb cake and brownies sent overnight anywhere in the United States? Operators are standing by. Need a prepared meal in a hurry? Good, reheatable meals -- like chicken francese with garlic string bean salad, asparagus Milanese and garlic mashed potatoes -- are waiting behind the prepared foods counter.
Everything is carefully considered, down to the smiling cheeses.
"Aren't those adorable?" said Cynthia Nappa, the specialty foods manager, who selects, among other things, the 400 or so cheeses sold here. "It's a nice way to introduce kids to cheese that's good for them." When was the last time a supermarket worried about developing your child's palate?
In that respect, Delicious Orchards is a market with a mission: to help redefine the way suburban families think about and shop for food.
Its use of mail-order catalogues and aggressive advertising campaigns have made its allure felt well outside Monmouth County. Nearly 2.5 million people walked through its doors last year alone, many of them driving over the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to see what all the fuss was about. They learned what locals have long known: buy iceberg lettuce at your local supermarket, if you must, but when you want the good stuff, go to Delicious.
In many ways, this is a story of what's old is what's new. The orchard itself was 11 years old when the Barclay family bought it in 1922, a time when local produce was routinely barged up the Navesink River to Sandy Hook, bound for Manhattan fruit stalls. That changed in the late 1950's, when Carroll Barclay, son of the original owners, started selling the family's apples and peaches, along with cider and baked goods, directly to consumers.
His wife, Janet, reigned in the bakery. "My mother was tough," recalled David Barclay, 50, who runs the orchard. "It had to be right, or we didn't do it at all. The quality had to be top-notch, and the customer was always right."
By 1989, everything but the orchard had been sold to a new generation of owners: three employees who, though unrelated to the family, seem determined to do things the Barclay way. "We want you to feel good from the moment you walk in to the moment you leave," said Thomas J. Gesualdo, the company's silver-haired president, who began working for the Barclays in 1974. "In many ways, we have it easier than the big chain supermarkets. We stick primarily to produce and the bakery. Everything else supports that."
It helps that Mr. Gesualdo's two partners have considerable experience. One, Frank McMahon, a baker for 27 years, began working for Mrs. Barclay when he was 20. Today, he has assumed her role in the bakery, agonizing over whether to raise the price of pies (the most expensive is $8.75), insisting on cleanliness and shepherding 55 employees through the daily routine of cranking out thousands of baked goods.
In an average day, the bakery produces 500 pies. Last Thanksgiving week, the bakery made and sold 65,000 pies, a number Mr. McMahon still shudders to think about. The bakery shifts begin at midnight. By the time customers arrive at 10 A.M., they can choose from 10 different kinds of pies, 11 breads, four types of doughnuts and legions of small pastries, cakes, tarts and brownies -- all baked according to recipes conceived by Mrs. Barclay in the 1950's.
The produce manager, Bill McDonald, has a similar story. He began stocking shelves here as an 18-year-old. Today, as a co-owner, he enforces the company's three-tiered system for quality control: the produce is inspected first by the buyers, then by the company's truck drivers and finally by employees at the store.
The company says it makes an effort to buy New Jersey produce in season, provided the food makes the grade. "We have an agreement with everyone we buy from," Mr. McDonald said. "It must meet our standards. If we don't like a load of oranges, we just reject it. That's it."
Shoppers seem to notice the difference. "I buy fruits and vegetables from them, and nothing gets wasted," said Hope Ruetiman of Freehold, who was heading inside the store one afternoon. "Other stores, you buy food and it goes bad a few days later. That never happens here. It's good quality."
Her son, Harrison, 9, couldn't wait to get inside to tackle the samples. His favorite snack? "Pistachios!" he blurted. His playmate, Alison Frick, 8, shyly confessed her weakness: cantaloupe.
A supermarket that encourages children to eat well may be on to something. But it's all in keeping with the spirit of the place. Shoppers here don't just shop; they snack. On a recent weekday, two elderly gentlemen popped plump red grapes in their mouths as they chatted by the bins. At the meat and deli counter, a man offered his wife some spiced roast beef on waxed paper.
Nearby, another man waited for his wife, minding their shopping cart and her purse while nibbling at a plate of cole slaw. If the salads aren't sold by the end of a day, Ms. Nappa said, they are offered as free samples the next.
Mrs. Barclay, who died five years ago at 69, would have approved of such economy. In fact, her son says, she would be proud of Delicious Orchards, which today retains much of the spirit and bustle of her original business. 'There was always a lot of people and excitement there," Mr. Barclay recalled. 'We were always surrounded by success, and it's still going on. It's this little market that grew into a massive place."
 
Delicious Orchards, Route 34, Colts Neck. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. (732) 462-1989. Mail-order catalogue: (800) 624-1893.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paula Caullet with blueberry tarts, above, at Delicious Orchards in Colts Neck, which sells produce, cheese, meat, chocolate, prepared food and more. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey shows location of Colts Neck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DELICIOUS ORCHARDS (COLTS NECK, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: DELICIOUS ORCHARDS (COLTS NECK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); APPLE ORCHARDS (78%); PREPARED FOODS (76%); COFFEE (75%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: D'AGNESE, JOSEPH CARROLL BARCLAY (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



609 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
Peripatetic Project Takes Root

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
THREE years after Robert Costa conceived of his public sculpture project "Art on the Waterfront," he installed it in Peninsula Park downtown in July. Mr. Costa is especially pleased that the same artists he chose back then are featured now, on the site he originally wanted.
The state denied him permission at the time. Hoboken was poised to take the exhibition for its waterfront this summer. Publicity had gone out and advertisements had been placed, but that plan was ultimately blocked by two City Council members. 
 "There are real differences between Hoboken and Jersey City, and they go back several generations," said Mr. Costa, a freelance curator affiliated with Pro Arts, which puts art in public spaces. "Hoboken had a lot of speak-easies during Prohibition, and it's still a bar culture. Music flourishes, but the visual arts have always had a hard time there. On the other hand, Jersey City has a strong reputation as a place friendly to art, and City Hall helped us get this site."
It's obvious that in selecting specific pieces, Mr. Costa has paid close attention to the particulars of Peninsula Park, at the entrance to the historic Morris Canal. The sculptures at the back of the site are relatively large and hold a kind of dialogue with the skyline of lower Manhattan, a de facto feature of the park. Smaller pieces in front refer more to the water.
"Giunta," by Carole Eisner, is named for the trucker who helps her transport her heavy welded-steel work. The abstract assemblage sculpture is all rust-colored metal, but some of the components are rough, both in texture and contour, while others are smooth. It's easy to see these latter elements as urbane, a reflection of the idealized life style across the Hudson in Manhattan; the more rugged elements might refer to the rather untamed look of Peninsula Park.
Nearby is a precarious-looking cinder-block "Tower," by Stefanie Nagorka. "When she showed me her proposal, it was done with sugar cubes," Mr. Costa said. "There's no mortar between the blocks. Instead, the blocks, which aren't flush with each other, are kept together by an armature." Visually, the fragile tower contrasts with the stable skyline across the river, but high finance, the main business of lower Manhattan and nearby Exchange Place in Jersey City, has its own kind of fragility.
A near relation of the tower is a blocky concrete figure by Joseph Chirchirillo that seems to be on its knees in a vulnerable attitude, or perhaps one of reverence toward New York City. Mr. Chirchirillo calls his figure "Leaner," and if Ms. Nagorka's piece isn't really Pisa-like, this one makes up for it, as a foil to the ramrod-straight architecture it faces.
Another in the world of economical titles is Howard McCalebb's "Calypso." It might be viewed as a transitional work: relatively monumental in scale, like the previously discussed work, but also having a watery pedigree. It might come under the heading of what are called "drawings in space," sculpture heavily dependent on the pattern made by a metal line. Mr. McCalebb has included a large coiled spring, which Mr. Costa says relates the work to sprightly calypso music. The title may also refer to the sea nymph in "The Odyssey," even though the Morris Canal entrance is hardly the deep blue sea. But reminding the viewer of water's potential depth is an addition that might help "Calypso" sink to the bottom: a bowling ball.
"Involute," a welded bronze circle by Thomas Beckmann, might be a water wheel. Each unit ends in a splayed-out shape resembling a spoon that might temporarily catch liquid, but a closer relative would be a windmill, and "Involute" rotates in the breeze. "Three Seahorses," by Luis A. Pratts, has diverse local references. Mr. Costa says actual seahorses have been found in the waters surrounding Peninsula Park, so the work pays tribute to the ecology of the place. The animals' intricate bony plates are made of railroad pins, bent and welded together; they are abundant in the area of the park that used to be laid with track. "Three Seahorses" is also a homage to bygone industrial life.
Steven Rand has his own titling system, so the viewer can't associate "6NHL" with anything in the work. It looks like a fat python coiled in the dry grass. The work is sections of sewage pipe fitted together with bright metal sleeves that conceal the seams between the sections. Around Peninsula Park, a visitor can spot all manner of washed-out objects, so the hunkering waste pipe is a recognition of this less-than-elegant facet of the site.
The work perched closest to the water is Lillian Ball's "Hot Tub," cast in urethane foam rubber and painted a swimming-pool blue. The work strongly suggests a flying saucer that has landed, and it is oddly shaped because what's cast is not the tub, but the space the water would take up. One of the pleasures of the piece is feeling its surface yield to the touch; the first thought is that it is concrete. Hot tubs are hedonistic, and Ms. Ball's work, which suggests a couch or a love seat, is being used that way.
"Art on the Waterfront" is scheduled to close on Dec. 5, when, the practical-minded Mr. Costa says, the insurance runs out.
 
ART ON THE WATERFRONT
Peninsula Park, on the Morris Canal
by Portside Tower East at Washington Street, Jersey City
Through Dec. 5. Hours: Daily, 6 A.M. to 10 P.M.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Giunta," a welded-steel assemblage sculpture by Carole Eisner, part of "Art on the Waterfront" at Peninsula Park in Jersey City. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENINSULA PARK (JERSEY CITY, NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); 

PERSON: ZIMMER, WILLIAM ROBERT COSTA (93%); JOSEPH CHIRCHIRILLO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



610 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 5; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Report Ranks Newark Worst City for Children

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Newark was ranked the worst place to rear children out of 112 medium-sized cities in the nation in a report released last week by Zero Population Growth, a Washington-based nonprofit organization created to educate the public about the impact of rapid population growth.
The report divided metropolitan areas into three types: major cities; independent cities, which have more than 100,000 residents and are not part of the sphere of a major city, and suburbs or outer cities, which are cities with more than 100,000 population that are part of another major metropolitan area. 
 Elizabeth, Paterson and Jersey City are considered suburbs of New York City by Zero Population Growth, and all ranked in the bottom third of the outer cities category. Out of 92 suburbs, Elizabeth ranked 75th, Paterson 86th, and Jersey City 89th. San Bernardino, Calif., came in last of the suburbs.
The rankings were based on nearly a dozen criteria, with the teen-age birth rate, number of children living in poverty, dropout rate, unemployment rate and violent crime rate being the most important factors, the report said. KAREN DeMASTERS 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (ORGN) ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (93%); ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (ORGN) ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (93%); ZERO POPULATION GROWTH (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS CITY LIFE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); RANKINGS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); CRIME RATES (72%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); POVERTY RATES (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



611 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS;
The Fine Art of Cabinetmaking

BYLINE: By DIANE NOTTLE 

 BODY:
A lot of artisans think their work is museum-quality. John Hein of Hopewell knows his is: the Newark Museum has told him so, in the nicest possible way.
 In July, the museum was given Mr. Hein's "Coopered Cabinet," completed in 1998, by Robert Alonzo Winters of Hightstown, a retired economics professor at Rutgers University who collects his work. It is now on display in the museum's House and Home Galleries. 
 The cabinet, 69 inches tall, is made of walnut, Honduras rosewood, pearwood, applewood and bloodwood. "It's something of an experimental piece," Mr. Hein said. Several elements presented challenges, particularly the curved door; he consulted a Princeton University physics professor about hinges that would let it swing open properly. No wonder the project -- "including all the mistakes" -- took him an estimated 500 hours over two years.
 Mr. Hein, 44, who graduated from Watchung Hills Regional High School, majored in English at Temple University, but in his craft he is largely self-taught. He must be a good teacher: he is one of only three living Americans in the Design Encyclopedia's list of eminent furniture designers, which puts him in the company of figures like Thomas Chippendale, Frank Lloyd Wright and a fellow New Jerseyan, Gustav Stickley. His pieces sell for $3,000 to $20,000. DIANE NOTTLE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEWARK MUSEUM PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWARK MUSEUM RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (52%); 

PERSON: WINTERS, ROBERT ALONZO; HEIN, JOHN; NOTTLE, DIANE JOHN HEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



612 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Sound's Guardian

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
County Executive Andrew J. Spano will soon be the recipient of the second yearly Sound Guardian Award. A coalition of environmentalists and construction companies, which has worked for six years to fix problems in Long Island Sound, will honor Mr. Spano next month for his efforts to do the same. Gov. George E. Pataki won the first award last year for his effort to clean the environment. 
 The National Audubon Society of New York and the Construction Industry Council of Westchester and Hudson Valley will present the award. In the early 1990's, the two organizations founded the Clean Water Jobs Coalition to promote financing for cleaning the Sound. It was the first time in Westchester that industry, labor and environmental organizations united for a common goal. The groups realized that upgrades at sewer plants, for example, not only benefited the environment but also provided jobs and stimulated the economy.
David J. Miller, executive director of National Audubon of New York, said proceeds from a $150-a-plate dinner for Mr. Spano on Sept. 8 will be used to continue those efforts. Mr. Spano has overseen upgrades at the county's seven sewage-treatment plants, including the four on the Sound.
The county has also underwritten projects to remove nitrogen from sewage treated at the Blind Brook plant in Rye and the Mamaroneck sewage treatment plant.
Nitrogen, a major component of sewage, has encouraged algae growth in the Sound, which in turn led to fish kills. Mr. Spano's administration has also focused its efforts on restoring and preserving fish and wildlife habitats on the estuary's shoreline. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY; HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (57%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (90%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY; NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (90%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND SOUND; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); WILDLIFE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FISHES (69%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (64%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (64%); 

PERSON: SPANO, ANDREW J (COUNTY EXEC); BRENNER, ELSA EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



613 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The Discreet Charm of the Mystery Bar

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE 

 BODY:
THE phone rang and Kenny Eybs, a bartender at an East Village bar, picked it up and prepared to go through a familiar drill.
"Hello, the Musical Box," he said. 
 "I can't find you," said a weary voice from a cell phone. "I've been walking up and down the block for 20 minutes!"
"Where are you?" Mr. Eybs asked with practiced calm. "Now turn around," he continued. "Walk up to the door. Now pull."
The Musical Box is a mystery bar, one of those establishments that do not advertise with neon lights or gaudy signs or large windows through which happy multitudes float about like fish in an aquarium. While such hidden bars are not new, many have sprung up in recent years, said Clark Wolf, an independent food and restaurant consultant based in New York.
"It is absolutely on the upswing," said Mr. Wolf, calling mystery bars "one of the biggest traditions of New York, going back to the speakeasy." Their growth "tends to happen during periods of economic upturn," he added, when night life is hopping and customers plentiful -- as they are now.
These bars opt for varying degrees of anonymity. WCOU, commonly called "The Tile Bar" because of its tiled exterior, has no sign, but its presence is clear from its big uncurtained windows, which front onto a busy corner of First Avenue and Seventh Street in the East Village.
Some mystery bars do have signs, but discreet ones. Descending the steps into Pravda, on Lafayette Street in SoHo, you see a tiny rectangle of illumination with the bar's name. Torch, a bar and restaurant on Ludlow Street on the Lower East Side, has its name in brass embedded in cement in front. Sway, which opened in December at 305 Spring Street, simply has the wrong sign. It says "McGovern's Bar."
Other establishments have only a symbol in front. The Temple Bar, also on Lafayette Street, has a skeleton of a chameleon, for instance.
But the most mysterious bars are those without any signs, symbols or other identifying traits. One would not suspect they were there at all. To get to the Lansky Lounge, on Norfolk Street on the Lower East Side, for example, patrons must travel a seemingly dicey alley to get to a door without a name.
What is the lure of such spots?
Anthony Secunda, a comic who celebrated his birthday recently at the Lansky Lounge, said, "If people are afraid to go in or can't find it, I don't have to worry about tourists overrunning the place."
Such obscurity can turn such a place into a neighborhood bar of sorts, even if its patrons live in such distant locations as the Upper West Side, the Upper East Side and Williamsburg.
Lauren Feeney, who was having drinks recently at another mystery establishment, the three-year-old Orchard Bar on the Lower East Side, said she found such bars "cool and underground" when she arrived here a year ago. Now she considers them "almost too trendy," but still frequents them.
"You feel you can talk to the people next to you -- or not," said Ms. Feeney, 22, a listings editor for The New York Review of Books. "In a way you automatically have something in common with them because you both sought out this obscure place."
Mr. Wolf, the restaurant consultant, confirms these patrons' feeling of clubbiness, saying, "When it's hard to find, you feel like you own it." The business result, he said, is a stable clientele.
"As opposed to super-trendy places where the fashionable crowd comes and goes, or the obvious-location places where you just gather the streams of pedestrians, these are places people choose to go and to go back to," he said.
Moreover, pulling open the doors to a mystery bar is oddly exhilarating, like finding an egg during an Easter egg hunt. "It creates an energy, a tension, regardless of what you offer once they are inside," said Peter Kane, a co-owner of the Orchard Bar and of the year-old Double Happiness on Mott Street in Chinatown.
Still, mystery is not everything. "Some people think that not having a name is a formula for success," Mr. Kane said. "But it is the vibe you create, not just making the place difficult to find."
Some proprietors also say the mystery is mere happenstance. Allison Culbertson, co-owner of Void, an art bar and performance space tucked away on Mercer Street in an obscure corner of SoHo, said: "It's not that we planned to be hidden. We simply fell in love with the location."
Moreover, "We didn't want to attract a lot of attention," Ms. Culbertson said of her four-year-old establishment, which has a small black sign about eight feet high on the corner of her building. "This is not a meat market or a pretentious SoHo bar. This is just a place where people can chill."
Johnny Barounis, who owns three signless spots, added that mystery bars are mainly a Manhattan phenomenon.
"With the Victorian Lounge in Bayside, we wanted to do the exact thing we did in Manhattan," said Mr. Barounis, whose bars include the two-year-old Exile on West 70th Street and the two-and-a-half-year-old Musical Box, which is on Avenue B between 13th and 14th Streets. "But they didn't get it. We put up two signs and had a valet and still people would say they didn't know it was there."
He continued: "I've been to other cities and you don't get a lot of signless bars outside of New York. Part of the reason is that people are driving to the location, and if you miss the place you can be 20 miles away from it in the blink of an eye."
Moreover, the "hip" factor in nameless, faceless bars and the resulting media interest make it difficult for them to stay mysteries for long. "You have people whose job it is to find out about these places and write about them," Mr. Kane said. "You've heard of six degrees of separation. It's more like four degrees before anyone in New York knows someone in the media. Even if you wanted to be underground and successful, you couldn't stay underground for long."
In this hot real estate market, the devouring of abandoned buildings and industrial areas also works against these bars' secrecy. "Everything is becoming residential," Mr. Barounis said.
Of course, some people -- even patrons -- dislike certain aspects of these mystery bars. "I find walking down a weird dark alleyway unappealing," said Sean Conroy, 32, a comic and writer who recently celebrated his birthday at Lansky Lounge.
Mr. Secunda agreed. "The feeling that I am going to get mugged is not all that pleasant," he said.
Indeed, some establishments wind up chucking all the mystery. On the final rounds of a mazy late night searching for nameless, faceless bars, a reporter was surprised by a big sign hanging over the street and identifying Dharma, a bar that had been unmarked. Inside, the bartender was idly conversing with a patron. The reporter asked: Wasn't Dharma, at 174 Orchard Street on the Lower East Side, suppose to be one of Manhattan's mystery bars?
"We were," the bartender said. "But we finally had to put one up. People kept complaining that they couldn't find us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Double Happiness has been open for a year on Mott Street in Chinatown. A co-owner, Peter Kane, says opening the door of a mystery bar "creates an energy, a tension." (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "DIRECTORY: Bring Your Cell Phone"
Manhattan has many mystery bars -- watering holes tucked into obscure corners or sporting hard-to-see signs, if any at all. If the address is not enough to locate the spots, call.
 
Double Happiness -- 173 Mott Street between Broome and Grand; 212-941-1282
 
Lansky Lounge -- 104 Norfolk Street between Delancey and Rivington; 212-677-9489
 
The Musical Box -- 219 Avenue B between 13th and 14th Streets; 212-254-1731
 
Orchard Street Bar -- 200 Orchard Street between Houston and Stanton; 212-673-5350
 
Pravda -- 281 Lafayette Street between Prince and Houston; 212-226-4696
 
Sway -- 305 Spring Street between Hudson and Greenwich; 212-620-5220
 
Temple Bar -- 332 Lafayette Street between Bleeker and Houston; 212-925-4242
 
Torch -- 137 Ludlow Street between Stanton and Rivington; 212-228-5151
 
Void -- 16 Mercer Street at the corner of Howard Street; 212-941-6492

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EAST SIDE MARKET PLACE INC (85%); EAST SIDE JERSEY DAIRY INC (85%); EAST SIDE FINANCIAL INC (85%); EAST SIDE BEVERAGE CO (85%); EAST SIDE LUMBERYARD SUPPLY CO (85%); EAST SIDE PLATING INC (85%); EAST SIDE BUILDING MATERIALS CO (85%); EAST SIDE AUDIO & VIDEO CO (85%); ORCHARD BAR (85%); NEW YORK (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORCHARD BAR (85%); NEW YORK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BARS DRINKING PLACES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); 

PERSON: COPAGE, ERIC V CLARK WOLF (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



614 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
Of Technology And Turnover

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

 BODY:

Q. As owner of a medium-sized business, I've been successful in retaining a large percentage of my staff -- except for the techies. In the past year alone, I've had to replace my computer technician four times. Several of my colleagues have experienced similar problems. Why is there such high turnover in this field, and how can I attract and retain good help?
 
A. The simple explanation for the turnover rate is supply and demand. Technology workers have the skills, and companies are desperate for them. So, more and more, keeping these employees means keeping them happy. 
 Often, that isn't as easy as it sounds. Providing a strong salary and benefits package is only part of the equation, said Laurence Holt, chief executive of Quidnunc, a consulting firm in New York that helps businesses develop E-business strategies. Another important factor is the technology itself: If your company's information systems aren't keeping pace with the changing market, he warned, your employees may feel that they, too, are at risk of being left behind.
"Tech people are scared of ending up with a resume that locks them out of the new economy," he said. If your company is clinging to outdated programs and systems, "be aware that you're making a decision that makes it tough to retain people."
Burnout also poses a serious threat to technology workers' happiness, said Shawn Landgraf, chief executive of Network Connections Inc., a high-technology consulting firm in New York. "It's very difficult for even the most dedicated workers to keep up with the changing technology and day-to-day business activities," he said.
Repetitive work can exacerbate the situation. "The type of employee who goes into the technology division gets very bored quickly doing the same tasks over and over," Mr. Landgraf said. But many workers, like help-desk operators and PC technicians, end up in such situations, hurting their enthusiasm and efficiency, he added.
Companies can take steps to ease the stress and monotony. Sometimes even little things can help -- adding minibreaks to work schedules, for example, or giving employees time to go to the health club, Mr. Landgraf said. A work space with lots of windows and bright lighting can make a big difference in morale and productivity, he added.
Throwing in a few perks can't hurt either. Quidnunc takes its employees -- now 150 -- on a vacation each year. Last year, the destination was northern Italy.
"We did a lot of water sports and just hung out. It's a big investment, but we've been repaid several times over," Mr. Holt said, noting that Quidnunc's turnover rate is 7 percent, compared with an industry average of 20 percent.
The bottom line is that you need to start studying your technology strategy not only for how it satisfies business needs, but also for how it satisfies your technology staff. Otherwise, Mr. Holt said, your best option may be to hire an outside firm to do the work. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); WORKPLACE MORALE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); 

PERSON: COTTLE, MICHELLE SHAWN LANDGRAF (79%); LAURENCE HOLT (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



615 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 5; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SOHO/NOHO;
Billboard Haters Mar Many Signs

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE 

 BODY:
Armed with red paint and using guerrilla tactics, a small group of billboard opponents has defaced more than a dozen signs in and around SoHo in recent months.
In one attack, blood-red paint was hurled at a 52-foot high ad, at 331 Lafayette Street, showing a young man wearing Dockers, a brand of pants made by Levi Strauss & Company. Billboards displaying Fila, DKNY and Banana Republic clothing have also been splattered. 
 The vandalism crystallizes the tension between billboard owners who seek to capitalize on the area's booming economy, and residents who say the signs are turning their neighborhood into "Times Square 2."
Little is known about the billboard attackers. But an intermediary, who would not divulge the names of the group's three members and who himself insisted on anonymity, read a statement from them to a reporter last week. "Our city is not the pages of a magazine," the attackers said in the statement. "Advertisers are decimating the city's landscape" and "the people are responding in anger with paint. We hope it gives inspiration to others who want to reclaim our city."
Many residents, some of whom argue that some billboards violate various provisions of the building code, appreciate the group's viewpoint. "Frankly, my hat is off to them," said Donald McPherson, director of the SoHo Action Committee. "A lot of people in the area support them."
The attacks have even received qualified sympathy from some officials. "We are a city agency, so we can't condone this," said Arthur Strickler, district manager of Community Board 2. "But we certainly understand their frustration."
Still, Barry Rush, president of Metrolite, which manages two billboards at 318 Lafayette Street, said: "These signs are a permanent part of the area, legal and an expression of free speech. What these vandals are doing is completely illegal."
Sarah Frank, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan District Attorney's office, said the attackers could be charged with second-degree criminal mischief, a felony that can bring up to seven years in prison. They could also face civil suits for property damage.
Not all residents or local groups necessarily oppose the billboards. Co-op associations in buildings with billboards make money from them. For instance, the building at 292 Lafayette Street is taking in nearly $90,000 a year for a liquor ad, said a member of the co-op board who insisted on anonymity.
Advertisers said the attacks would not discourage future ads in the area. "The defacing of outdoor ads is a very common phenomenon," said Sean Dee, brand director of Levi Strauss, which has its headquarters in San Francisco. "In some instances, it probably makes the ads look better."
 DENNY LEE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 52-foot-high Dockers ad above Lafayette Street has been daubed with red paint. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (84%); SOHO ACTION COMMITTEE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOHO ACTION COMMITTEE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; VANDALISM; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); VANDALISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LITIGATION (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); FELONIES (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: LEE, DENNY

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



616 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
A Kingdom of Franks and Fruit Juice Aims to Become an Empire

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
IT was 1:30 P.M. on 125th Street in Harlem, only 20 minutes after the stealth opening of the newest Papaya King hot-dog emporium. The debut was unheralded by necessity, because it had taken three days just to get Consolidated Edison to connect the gas to the frankfurter grills.
Even so, a line of 17 eager frankophiles snaked out the door. At the counter, Jermel Vanderhorst, 27, a manager of the Blockbuster Video store next door, was eager to order. "I've been waiting for this place to open since July," he said. 
 The store where Mr. Vanderhorst could finally get his two chili cheese dogs and a grape juice is the prototype of a planned new global Papaya King empire.
"Papaya King has a great brand," said Daniel Horan, chief executive of PK Operations Inc., an entrepreneurial subsidiary of the Manhattan venture capital firm Founders Equity that plans to hazard millions of dollars over the next few years to populate New York, and then the world, with Papaya Kings. "It has a great reputation and a great logo," he said, referring to the wild yellow, red and green depiction of a smiling papaya face topped with a crown.
Mr. Horan and his investors hope that the very Noo Yawk pairing of hot dogs with papaya and other tropical fruit drinks is as nationally marketable as other mysteriously successful culinary relationships, like pastrami and rye or peanut butter and jelly.
Even though there are now just two stores -- the 125th Street prototype and the flagship store at 86th Street and Third Avenue -- Papaya King has "a national reputation," according to Mr. Horan, 32, who holds an M.B.A. from Yale and worked as a manager at Gourmet Garage, the high-end Manhattan grocer.
THROUGH six decades of operation, Papaya King has waxed and waned desultorily, at times establishing satellite stores in Manhattan, far-flung Brooklyn and even farther-flung Los Angeles. The company found them cumbersome to manage and less profitable than anticipated; ultimately, they all were discontinued when their leases ran out.
One store set up in 1973 on Manhattan's Upper West Side was bought by its managers and renamed Gray's Papaya; it is not associated with Papaya King. A number of imitators sprang up around the city, but for years until this month, the flagship Papaya King store stood alone.
Through the years, "we've been approached by countless people who wanted to take us national," said Peter Poulos, the chief executive of the original Papaya King store.
Mr. Poulos, 61, who joined the family business in 1958, received an undisclosed fee from Founders Equity for the rights to use the Papaya King name and has been given a 12 percent stake in PK Operations. As part of the deal he and several experienced workers and managers came over from the 86th Street operation to help get the new store going.
The 1,200-square-foot prototype, which cost more than $300,000 to build, showcases its stand-up fare with green and orange neon and a galaxy of homely signs that, as in the original store, extol the store's "Tastier Than Filet Mignon Frankfurters" for which "NO ONE, and we mean NO ONE, has our formula!"
Papaya King's $1.29 frankfurters have been lauded by Julia Child and Bryan Miller, and Zagat's Restaurant Survey calls them "the crown jewels of hot doggery."
The hickory-smoked hot dogs are made of beef seasoned with garlic, oregano and "South American spices," Mr. Poulos said enigmatically. Casings imported from Germany are used "because that gives them a snap when people bite," he said.
New York was once populated by chains like Nedick's and Orange Julius that hawked the twin attractions of frankfurters and fruit drinks in dozens of locations. In 1932, Constantine Poulos, Peter's father, immigrated from Greece and opened a juice store in Manhattan; seven years later, he and his wife, Birdie, hit on the idea of serving frankfurters with papaya, and Papaya King was born. Now, there is even a Web site: www.papayaking.com.
Today a McDonald's and a Burger King are across from the new store at 121 West 125th Street, near Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard.
But "Papaya King is its own subniche of fast food -- tropical juices in combination with a frank product that is of a very high quality," said Malcolm M. Knapp, an independent restaurant analyst and consultant based in New York. Mr. Knapp also happens to be a Manhattan hot-dog aficionado and Papaya King regular who lives near the 86th Street neighborhood.
Harlem is a good choice for expansion, "since it is not terribly well served by others with a quality product," he said.
The president of the 125th Street Business Improvement District, Barbara Askins, agreed. "You can find lots of chicken and burgers in Harlem, but not many hot dogs," she said as she waited her turn in line.
In theory, the notion of a chain of Papaya Kings is promising, Mr. Knapp said, "because the basic economic model is very strong on a unit level," meaning that individual stores could be highly profitable. The chain operates efficiently thanks to its "limited menu, which means they can deliver product more quickly," he said.
The 86th Street store sells 2,000 frankfurters a day and has annual revenues of more than $1 million. Mr. Knapp calculated that the store's sales per square foot, an important industry indicator, could be $1,300 or more, "extraordinarily good for a store of that size," he said.
The business plan, Mr. Poulos said, is to perfect the operation and design of the prototype, then open four to five more company-owned stores in Manhattan before branching out to other states, possibly as a franchiser.
But there are many hurdles. The city's robust economy may make it difficult to find suitable new locations with affordable commercial rents, Mr. Knapp said. And the stores compete not only with the giant fast-food chains but also with what Mr. Poulos contends are low-quality "copycats," about a dozen of them, scattered around Manhattan. Papaya King has sued some of the imitators to keep them from too closely imitating the store's name and distinctive logo.
In the end, "It's much easier to build these things than to run them," Mr. Knapp said.
"The rule of thumb in these operations is that most owners can handle up to about six units that are reasonably geographically close, before they blow up. It takes a different kind of management to run a larger business."
For his part, Mr. Horan says no one, no one, is more prepared than he to launch a king-sized network of Papaya Kings.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Horan, second from left, the chief executive of PK Operations, is putting his Yale M.B.A. qualifications to work in an attempt to start a chain of Papaya King shops. He took his turn behind the counter after the company took its first step, opening a second Papaya King, in Harlem. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (72%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (72%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PAPAYA KING (RESTAURANT CHAIN) BB LIQUIDATING INC (72%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: PAPAYA KING (RESTAURANT CHAIN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FRANKFURTERS RETAILERS (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (76%); CHEESE (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN CONSTANTINE POULOS (61%); DANIEL HORAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



617 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Goods Ready to Rent, Stocks Ready to Grow

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
IT was just over a year ago that investors were engaged in an industrial-sized obsession with the stocks of equipment rental companies -- businesses that rent out everything from bulldozers to 100-foot-long telescopic boom lifts to generators and hand tools. At the end of July 1998, the industry's bellwether stock -- United Rentals of Greenwich, Conn. -- was trading at a lofty price of over $48, or 48 times analysts' estimates of earnings per share for the year.
Since then, however, the romance has faded: United Rentals fell to less than $11 by fall and closed on Friday at $26.6875, still 44.5 percent below that July 1998 high. Rivals have more or less followed it down. 
 Despite that rough ride, analysts see much to recommend the sector.
John Molner, a managing director at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, sees two reasons for optimism about this $20 billion industry. First, it continues to benefit from a national trend -- in which companies are contracting for use of equipment they once might have owned. Second, the biggest of the rental concerns are now large enough to set up lucrative accounts with national customers.
ANOTHER positive sign for these stocks is the fragmentation of the industry, which makes it ripe for consolidation. Despite a recent acquisition frenzy -- United Rentals has already bought more than 60 companies this year -- analysts say there are still 20,000 smaller, mostly family-owned concerns across the country.
Last year's selloff in the stocks can be attributed, in part, to the perception that the rental business is cyclical. Such businesses were thought to be vulnerable to a downturn as investors fretted over economic problems in Asia and Russia.
"We think that people have looked at this as a cyclical industry," said Stefan Mykytiuk, an analyst at Baron Capital Group, a money management firm in New York. But Baron, he said, sees a "very strong" long-term change toward renting rather than owning equipment.
Generally, analysts expect the industry to grow 15 to 20 percent a year over the next three to five years.
This year, even with a renaissance in cyclical stocks, the equipment rental issues have generally remained grounded, in part because of concern about rising interest rates.
According to Andrew W. Jeffrey, an analyst at BancBoston Robertson Stephens, United Rentals is now trading at just 12.1 times his 2000 earnings estimate of $2.20 a share.
Another big company, National Equipment Services of Evanston, Ill., closed on Friday at $8.5625, just 7.5 times analysts' estimated earnings per share for next year and 33.5 percent below its 52-week high of $12.875, on June 30. Mr. Molner said National has carved out a sizable business by renting specialty equipment, like pumps used in oil refineries; rental rates for such equipment are not particularly vulnerable to economic downturns. He thinks its stock is worth $17 a share.
In July, Mr. Jeffrey started following Nationsrent, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He likes the company's efforts to build a strong brand name, as well as its wide selection of equipment. He predicts that its earnings will rise 20 percent annually over the next three to five years.
As for United Rentals, Mr. Jeffrey thinks it should trade at 20 times his forecast for 2000 earnings, which would give it a price of $44 a share.
Mr. Mykytiuk also likes United Rentals. "We think that they are the one best positioned to capitalize on this growth," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The SkyJack Scissor lift, one of United Rentals' offerings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (68%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED RENTALS (CO) BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (69%); BARON CAPITAL GROUP INC (53%); NES RENTALS HOLDINGS INC (51%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (51%); BARON CAPITAL GROUP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED RENTALS (CO) BARON CAPITAL GROUP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; STOCKS AND BONDS; RENTING AND LEASING INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA ANDREW W JEFFREY (73%); STEFAN MYKYTIUK (61%); JOHN MOLNER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



618 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: When Laws Shoot Themselves in the Foot

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
TOWARD the end of every year, millions of Americans go on medical shopping sprees. They get their teeth cleaned and their eyes checked. They buy designer eyeglasses, orthopedic shoes and long-term supplies of birth-control pills. Some even make extra appointments with their analysts.
These people are taking advantage of a tax break called flexible spending accounts that hardly anyone believes is good public policy. While the Government's goal is to hold down medical costs, this part of the tax law encourages extra medical spending. 
 There are probably dozens of other such laws on the books -- laws that may have been enacted with the best of intentions but that turned out to work at cross-purposes with Government policy.
Stuart M. Butler at the Heritage Foundation says, for example, that it makes no sense for buildings across the country to remain dilapidated because the historic preservation law makes it too costly to restore them.
Mary B. Hevener, a tax lawyer, says nothing could be more absurd than tax-subsidized parking, which encourages commuters to drive, thus consuming fuel and worsening pollution.
John Frydenlund at Citizens Against Government Waste believes the most ridiculous laws are the Federal subsidies for the domestic sugar, peanut and dairy industries, which cost Americans billions of dollars in higher food prices.
Each of those is a candidate for a list of laws with unintended consequences that outweigh whatever benefits exist. But here are one reporter's favorites:
 
Flexible Spending Accounts -- Since 1984, the tax law has allowed employers to offer these accounts to workers. More than 50,000 employers, including almost all large companies and many states and municipalities, offer the benefit to more than 6 million workers.
At the beginning of the year, employees declare how much money they want withheld from their pay to cover out-of-pocket medical expenses -- not just insurance deductibles and copayments but also expenses not covered by insurance. Since the workers do not pay Federal or state income or payroll taxes on this money, they can in effect save 30 to 50 percent on their medical expenses. The richer they are, the more they save.
The catch is that at the end of the year they must forfeit to their boss all the money in their account that has not been spent. This use-it-or-lose-it aspect leads participants to go on spending binges at the end of every year to clean out their accounts.
The Employers Council on Flexible Spending, the lobby behind the law, would like to eliminate the use-it-or-lose-it rule, but that would cost more than politicians are willing to allocate. Others would like to abolish the accounts altogether on the ground that people who are well off and work for large employers should not get a tax benefit unavailable to those who are less affluent.
"There are only two words by which you can characterize this -- venal and stupid," said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health-care economist at Princeton. He has such an account himself, and last December, he discovered he had money left in it. So he and his wife went to the doctor on Christmas Eve and got colonoscopies.
 
Flood Insurance -- The original idea was to give subsidized insurance to people in areas that often flooded. In return, the communities were required to enact strict controls on land use and building codes that would reduce the likelihood of flood damage.
In many cases, this has worked. But in many others, a study by the National Wildlife Federation found, the availability of inexpensive insurance "encourages development and rebuilding in areas with a predictably high risk of future catastrophic loss." The Federation found 32,000 insured properties in 300 communities that had been flooded and repaired at least twice. A house in Houston worth about $100,000 was flooded 16 times, with $800,000 in insurable repairs.
Edward T. Pasterick, a spokesman for the Federal Insurance Administration, said it was a "misperception" that cheap insurance led people to build in flood-prone locales. But he conceded that Federally subsidized premiums on new structures averaged less than 40 percent of what private insurance would cost.
 
Consumer Complaints -- When Congress created the Consumer Product Safety Commission in 1972, the law specified that the new agency's mission was "to assist consumers in evaluating the comparative safety of consumer products." But the law added a zinger. It prohibited the agency from making public any consumer complaint about a product without first getting permission from the manufacturer. It is the only regulatory agency that has such a restriction.
"This allows companies to control the information flow," said Ann Brown, the commission chairman. "Those who ought to control the flow are consumers. Our hands are tied."
Commission officials said that, in fact, only a handful of companies take advantage of their ability to block publicity. Which companies are those?
It is against the law, the officials said, for them to reveal that information.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (91%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); LAWYERS (69%); HISTORY (69%); FOOD PRICES (66%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



619 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
In Truckers' Pay, a Lesson About the Inflation That Isn't

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE 3,100 drivers at C. R. England Inc., a trucking company in Salt Lake City, got a big raise this month, their first in nearly three years. They now average about $35,000 a year, but it is not enough. Even their boss says so. "The truth is, these guys are underpaid for what they do," said Dan England, chief executive of the company, which is family-owned.
Most of the nation's 500,000 long-haul drivers are in tough straits. Inflation has eaten at their pay, and the raises that are just beginning to come through have not restored the buying power that existed for these drivers in the late 1970's. The re-engineering of the American economy started then, and is still having its effect today, helping to explain two contradictory trends: Pay has deteriorated for many Americans and wage inflation has been mild, even as unemployment has fallen and labor shortages have developed in some industries. 
 Over-the-road drivers are Exhibit A. They take the biggest rigs up and down the country, their trips often keeping them on the road for two or three weeks at a time as they deliver cargoes and pick up new ones for destinations far from home. Most are paid by the mile driven. Before deregulation, those mileage rates rose in step with inflation. With deregulation, however, many more companies entered the long-haul business, the new competition held down shipping rates, unionization fell sharply and mileage pay stagnated.
In the absence of raises, the drivers have tried to keep up with inflation by driving more miles, often violating the 60-hour-a-week work limit imposed by the Federal Government on interstate truck drivers to insure that they get enough rest to drive safely. A team led by Dale L. Belman, a professor at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, surveyed more than 500 drivers in the last two years and found that the average driver worked 65.7 hours in seven days; 25 percent of them squeezed in 75 hours in a week.
"If you are sitting outside a Wal-Mart waiting three hours for your truck to be unloaded, you are on duty, but your wheels aren't turning," Mr. Belman said, explaining one of the subterfuges. "So you pretend that the unloading time is sleep time, and that gives you three more hours to run up miles." Others who load and drive moving vans log time they spend loading as rest time. "These practices have always existed," Mr. Belman said, "but they have gotten worse."
Given the stagnant wages and the hardships, why don't the drivers go into other work? After all, many jobs go begging these days, and the unemployment rate is very low. Industry executives say that long-haul drivers are indeed departing and that there is a genuine shortage of drivers. Mr. England, for example, says 73 of his 2,500 rigs are parked and idle for lack of drivers. He has responded by raising the average mileage rate he pays by 3 cents on Aug. 1, to 32.5 cents, the first increase since 1996, when the rate rose by 1 cent.
"The driver who has been with me for a year generally makes in the mid $30,000's, which is pretty good for an unskilled person," said Mr. England, whose wage rates are roughly representative of the industry's. But to solve the labor shortage, he said, annual pay would have to rise by nearly a third, to $50,000. That isn't beginning to happen in long-haul trucking, even counting performance bonuses that some truckers are paying. Why? Mr. England says he can't get price increases from his customers to pay such a wage.
"Our mileage rate went up 3 cents this month, and we are trying to get back at least 2 cents from our customers," he said. "We are not going to make that. We will have a hard time passing along wage increases until a shipper calls for trucks and can't get one. That has not happened yet."
But while Mr. England sees labor shortages as a result of the inadequate pay, Mr. Belman says that he and other industry executives confuse job turnover with shortages. "They don't distinguish between drivers switching jobs and not enough drivers," said Mr. Belman, who is also director of the University of Michigan's trucking industry research program. A typical driver, who has only a high school education, he said, really can't leave the road and expect to go on bringing home $35,000 a year.
That much income requires 3,000 hours of driving time a year, 50 percent more than the normal work year in America. With so many hours, the mileage rate works out to the equivalent of $11.60 an hour. Even if the drivers could earn $14 an hour for a 2,000-hour work year in another field -- a high hourly wage, given their skills -- their annual income would shrink to $28,000, Mr. Belman said.
"So there is a lot of movement between trucking companies," he said. "You are a driver who is getting home only every 2.5 weeks, and a recruiter says his company will get you home every two weeks, and you switch."
The lesson in all this amends common wisdom. In a deregulated, competitive industry like long-haul trucking, where union membership (in the teamsters) has fallen to 10 percent of the workers, from 30 percent in the 1970's, the scramble for drivers does not easily produce higher pay or wage inflation -- particularly when the drivers do not see a viable alternative.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (92%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: C R ENGLAND INC C R ENGLAND INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: C R ENGLAND INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS TRUCKING (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS DALE L BELMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



620 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Richard S. Brody -- PPM America

BYLINE: By HILARY ROSENBERG 

 BODY:
THE career of Richard S. Brody disproves the notion that consultants are better at giving advice than doing the job themselves.
As an investment consultant for seven years in the 1980's, Mr. Brody, now 45, helped corporations and foundations pick the money managers they used for their retirement plans or endowments. He focused not only on returns, but also on the nature of organizations that are most successful at investing. "The best organizations I saw had small team structures with very experienced people and a very well-thought-out investment philosophy," he said. 
 In 1992, Mr. Brody got the chance to show that he was more than talk. The Prudential Corporation P.L.C., the $216 billion British insurance giant that is not related to the similarly named American company, hired him to run equity investments at PPM America Inc., its United States institutional money management unit in Chicago.
One goal was to merge the roles of research and portfolio management. When those duties are separate, Mr. Brody said, analysts spend precious time marketing their ideas to portfolio managers, who may ultimately not understand them. Moreover, he strongly believes that meeting with the top management of potential investment targets is crucial to value investing: he and the four other manager-analysts make roughly 200 visits a year to companies.
The system appears to work. For the five years ended June 30, PPM America's large-cap value stock portfolio, with $7.3 billion in assets, has returned 25.52 percent annualized, versus 23.64 percent for the Standard & Poor's/Barra Value Index. (Individuals cannot invest in PPM's large-cap portfolio, or its $170 million small-cap portfolio, which has returned 19.31 percent, annualized, for the five years ended June 30, versus 15.01 percent for the Russell 2000 Value Index.)
In picking its large-cap stocks, PPM America starts with a universe of about 800 companies with market values of at least $1.5 billion. That collection is divided among five portfolio manager-analysts according to their industry specialties.
To identify stocks that are inexpensive relative to the market, Mr. Brody and his team use standard price-to-earnings ratios. But they also pay attention to two ratios based on the so-called enterprise value of a stock, which he defines as the market value plus the debt and minus the cash on a company's balance sheet. These multiples are the enterprise value-to-cash flow and enterprise value-to-revenue. Because enterprise value accounts for net debt, Mr. Brody believes it makes for a more valid comparison among stocks and indexes than, say, price to cash flow.
Next, the manager-analysts try to figure whether the market has reason for valuing the companies so inexpensively. If they suspect that a stock is undervalued after studying financial statements, news reports and brokerage firm research, they start interviewing management. The research-intensive process explains the low number of stocks in the fund -- 55 or fewer -- and the low turnover rate of 35 to 40 percent.
LAST spring, PPM America's manager-analysts began looking into the Promus Hotel Corporation, based in Memphis. Promus merged in 1997 with the Doubletree Corporation and suffered through a management-level culture clash. A new chief executive, Norman P. Blake Jr., arrived last December, but the market reacted coolly to his strategic plan, which included a quality improvement program and a stock buyback. In May, the company announced that earnings for 1999 and 2000 would be lower than expected. In two days, the stock fell from $31.25 to $24, just 11 times analysts' estimates of 1999 earnings a share; its enterprise value was just seven times estimated cash flow.
In June, Mr. Brody and Samuel A. Yee, a manager-analyst, talked with management and -- despite the lower earnings forecasts -- came away impressed with Mr. Blake's sensitivity to Wall Street's concerns. In early July, PPM America started buying Promus stock at $27.83 a share; it now trades at $26.1875, or 12.1 times estimated 1999 earnings. PPM expects the stock to rise to 20 to 21 times estimated earnings within three years. Analysts expect the company's earnings to increase 6 percent in 2000; PPM thinks the company can do better.
In late July 1998, the stock of Computer Associates International, a software developer in Islandia, N.Y., fell 46.3 percent after the company lowered its sales expectations as a result of the Asian economic crisis. Heather A. Kang, a PPM America manager-analyst, sat down with executives and concluded that there was too much uncertainty to justify an investment.
But this year, at the end of March, Computer Associates announced the acquisition of Platinum Technology International, and Ms. Kang reconsidered. PPM America started buying at $41.68 a share in late April; the stock now trades at $51.75, or 19.3 times analysts' estimates of earnings a share for fiscal 2000. Ms. Kang expects the stock price to climb more than 50 percent over the next three years.
PPM America recently added to its holdings in Kmart, though Mr. Brody conceded that the company's stock performance has been disappointing lately.
PPM's interest was piqued in 1997 by the retailer's plans to compete more aggressively with rivals like Wal-Mart Stores. That August, PPM bought shares at $14.02, or 4.7 times estimated cash flow for that fiscal year. They rose to over $20 in June 1998 but then began a long decline, as same-store sales growth -- for stores open at least a year -- did not meet Wall Street expectations. The stock dropped from $18.1875 in May of this year to $13 on Aug. 10, and PPM America met with management in the middle of this month.
Ms. Kang said that despite the recent weakness, which she attributed to interest-rate worries affecting many retail stocks, Kmart's management remained committed to its strategy. The stock closed on Friday at $13.25, or 10.6 times analysts estimates of earnings per share for the January 2000 fiscal year. PPM said it believed that the stock could rise to $25 in one to two years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A value player who thinks talking directly to management is crucial, Richard S. Brody looks beyond the usual investing formulas. (Rob O'Neal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (83%); PRU (LSE) (83%); K6S (SGX) (83%); 2378 (HKSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: PPM AMERICA INC PPM AMERICA INC (85%); PRUDENTIAL PLC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PPM AMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CASH FLOW (86%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: BRODY, RICHARD S; ROSENBERG, HILARY RICHARD S BRODY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



621 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: The World: Heartburn;
Fearful Over the Future, Europe Seizes On Food

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FIST raised, mustache bristling, Jose Bove looked defiant as he handed himself in to French police in the southern town of Montpelier a few days ago. "My struggle remains the same," this farmer declared to an appreciative crowd, "the battle against globalization and for the right of people to feed themselves as they choose."
A Parisian-turned-sheep-farmer who moved to southwest France 20 years ago, Mr. Bove emerged this month as a sort of Subcomandante Marcos of the French countryside, the leader of a self-styled, anti-imperialist revolt over food. His crime, committed on Aug. 12, was to lead the ransacking and demolition of a McDonald's restaurant nearing completion in the southwestern town of Millau. 
 It was only the most conspicuous of a rash of recent protests against McDonald's, targeted not so much for anything the company has done but as a symbol of the United States and of what Mr. Bove has called "the multinationals of foul food." His efforts have struck a chord. French labor unions, ecologists, Communists and farmers have joined to demand his immediate release, burying other differences in a shared politico-gastronomic outcry.
An army, Napoleon noted, marches on its stomach, and the European forces gathering this summer in protest against what is seen as American-led globalization have abruptly focused on food. Where it was once the deployment of American nuclear missiles that caused alarm, it is now McDonald's, Coca-Cola, genetically modified American corn and American beef fattened with growth hormones that have Europeans up in arms.
"Behind all this lies a rejection of cultural and culinary dispossession," said Alain Duhamel, a French political analyst. "There is a certain allergy in Europe to the extent of American power accumulated since the cold war's end, and the most virulent expression of that allergy today seems to be food."
Of course, it is not just culture or the kitchen that is at stake. Enormous economic interests are also involved. Large quantities of American corn and soybeans, to name just two crops, have been genetically modified over the years -- that is, rendered more productive, more hardy, less vulnerable to fungal and viral pests through scientific alteration, including the addition of genes.
No discernible harm to Americans has occurred. But if Europe and possibly other parts of the world reject or ban such products, the economic consequences may be measured in the billions of dollars. Already, a federal judge in Brazil has banned sales of the Monsanto Corporation's Roundup Ready soybean seeds -- gene-altered to resist fungus and weeds -- and Japan has announced that it will require labels on genetically modified food.
E UROPE seems to be gripped right now by a kind of collective madness, and we don't want that to spread to the rest of the world," said Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, the head of the Senate agricultural committee, who was in Germany this month. "In the United States, we have not seen a scintilla of ill effects, and on my farm alone we've been modifying corn and soybeans since the 1930's, raising productivity by a factor of three."
Behind the "madness" several factors appear to lurk. The specter of nature being rendered more uniform by scientists in America has meshed with a wider fear of an increasingly undifferentiated planet where national distinctions fade. Europeans see on the horizon a uniform, global culinary culture dominated by multinationals -- a Hollywood of the kitchen drowning any European distinctiveness with sheer marketing muscle.
At the same time, a rash of health scares -- including the outbreak of mad cow disease in Britain in 1996, and the discovery this year of dioxin-polluted chicken in Belgium -- has provoked widespread fear of any tampering with nature. This mood clearly lies behind Europe's refusal to drop a ban on American beef raised with growth hormones -- a decision that prompted the United States last month to impose a 100 percent tariff on some European food products, including Roquefort and foie gras. The American foie gras controversy, page 7.
That American decision -- targeting foods that nestle very close to the prickly French soul -- added fuel to a fire already raging.
Attacks or complaints directed at American food and beverages have been almost constant lately as American marketers move to exploit what they see as an underserved European market. The reasons for the attacks have differed, but not the common thread of an American target.
Coca-Cola, still reeling from the effects of a poorly handled health scare that saw supposedly contaminated drinks removed from shelves in Belgium and France, is now the object of a European Commission investigation that involved dawn raids on offices in Germany, Britain, Austria and Denmark last month. The company is suspected of abusing a dominant market position to damage its competitors. In Italy, where Coke has an 80 percent share of the cola market, a separate national investigation was begun this month.
"There is no anti-American conspiracy here," said Stefan Rating, a spokesman for Europe's competition and anti-trust policy regulators in Brussels. "That Coke is American is undisputed, but not unlawful. What we are looking into are possible abuses." Coke denies any wrongdoing, and is known to be piqued by the extent and repetitiveness of its recent European travails.
THIS month in Belgium, a McDonald's near Antwerp was destroyed, the latest of several attacks, and a number of McDonald's in France have had rotting fruit and vegetables dumped on them since the Clinton Administration's decision to apply punitive duties to French products.
"We are attacked because we are a No. 1 global American brand," said Alessandra di Montezemolo, a McDonald's spokeswoman in Europe. "But people should understand we are local partners in the national economies."
McDonald's, which operates 750 restaurants in France, tried to calm protests there by issuing a statement saying that "80 percent of the products we serve are made in France," adding that they were "cooked by local employees." But la France profonde -- the heartland of the imprisoned Mr. Bove -- was not impressed.
"Culinary sovereignty is imperative," said Patrice Vidieu, the secretary-general of Peasant Confederation, the growing farmers' movement founded by Mr. Bove in 1987. "What we reject is the idea that the power of the marketplace becomes the dominant force in all societies, and that multinationals like McDonald's or Monsanto come to impose the food we eat and the seeds we plant."
Mr. Vidieu's movement derives much of its intellectual inspiration and direction from Attac, an association founded last year in France to fight globalization and to campaign for a tax on international financial transactions that would be used to help the world's poor and fight social inequality. Among the leaders of Attac (the French acronym for the Association for Taxation of Financial Transactions in Order to Aid Citizens) are Viviane Forrestier, whose anti-globalization book "The Economic Horror" has had enormous sales in France, and editors of the prestigious Le Monde Diplomatique.
It is this merging of militants against global finance and global food that has given the current outcry some of its curious virulence. Senator Lugar, who would like to see scientific testing of genetically modified crops in Europe, confessed to being amazed. His argument is simple. The population of the world will probably grow to nine billion from six billion by 2050. Available acreage for planting has already been identified. So, unless food productivity is increased -- which will not happen without scientific intervention -- people are going to go hungry.
"The Europeans think they are protecting humanity," he said, "but we think they want to starve the rest of the world. These are big issues. I've been telling the Europeans that there's a big difference between the Kosovo war and genetically modified corn: For many Americans corn is more important."
But Philippe Folliot, the mayor of a St. Pierre-de-Trivisy, a small town in the Roquefort-growing area, is unimpressed by such arguments. He has imposed a symbolic 100 percent tax on Coca-Cola sold in the town. "Here we cannot make plastic cheeses and hormone beef," he said. "Roquefort is unique, a symbol of our battle against the globalization of taste."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Target, American food: Top, Jose Bove, leader of French farmers held in the destruction of a McDonald's. Bottom, Coca-Cola being dumped in Belgium's tainting scare. (Associated Press)(pg. 3); American food is a focus of fears over globalization. A McDonald's after a protest in Cavaillon, France, last week. (Reuters); Farmers in Cavaillon, France, last week, protesting punitive American tariffs on French products. (Associated Press)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (74%); KO (NYSE) (54%); MON (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (74%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (74%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (74%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); MONSANTO CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FAST FOOD (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); SOYBEAN FARMING (77%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (66%); BEEF (64%); LABOR UNIONS (52%); 

PERSON: JOSE BOVE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



622 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
As Gold Prices Fall, The Cachet Prevails

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY

 BODY:
AS the price of gold hits a 20-year low, diehard gold bugs and others are rushing in to buy the precious metal as a hedge against the day the bear wakes from his prolonged hibernation on Wall Street.
"We always advise our clients to invest a portion of their portfolios in gold-related investments because gold is a contrarian investment in that it has a negative correlation to stocks and bonds," said Harry Bingham, president of Van Eck Institutional Advisers in New York City, which has been urging clients to take advantage of declining prices. 
 That's fine for those dabbling in bullion or gold futures, but what about the rest of America? Haven't the collective contents of jewelry boxes taken a nose dive? The price an ounce has slid 11 percent since January alone. Wouldn't people be better off buying Beanie Babies than bracelets and belly rings?
The market value for gold has been declining for several years as global economies have collapsed and central banks have sold off tons of bullion in a time of low inflation. The Bank of England, the latest to sell, last month unloaded 25 tons of 415 tons it plans to sell to raise money to invest in American, European and Japanese bonds.
Gold once traded for nearly $500 an ounce, but the influx of bullion on the market has depressed the price to about $255 an ounce from $325 a year ago. Mine operators in South Africa and elsewhere have shut down or laid off workers.
Paradoxically, consumers' demand for gold is at an all-time high. American retail sales last year increased more than 8 percent to $13.7 billion, according to the World Gold Council, which represents the seventh consecutive year of revenue increases.
Synonymous with status and self-expression for millenniums, adorning the heads of royalty, the fingers of newlyweds and the necks of fashion victims, gold historically rises and falls in cycles like the stock market. When it comes to the price of jewelry relative to gold values, consumers are "just oblivious," said Judith Langer, president of Langer Associates, a market research and trend consulting firm in New York City. "It's sort of like fur. When fur becomes less expensive, consumers consider it an affordable status symbol rather than thinking it's cheap and, therefore, worthless."
Although jewelry accounts for 80 percent of the gold demand worldwide, consumers won't see any devaluation soon. Retail prices can take up to six months to reflect market fluctuations; merchants may take that long to sell off their old inventories. This year's holiday sale prices may be very low because retailers are restocking at cheaper rates.
But all that glitters is not not marked down. Craftsmanship counts. "It's kind of like weighing an Escada silk blouse and saying 'how much silk is in it,' " said Mark Seelig, vice president of sales for Ourafin Llc., a large gold jewelry manufacturer and importer.
As an investment, "gold is insurance against economic, financial and political uncertainty," said Richard Scott Ram, chief portfolio strategist at the World Gold Council, who has been advising pension fund managers to include more gold as a part of a diverse portfolio.
Not everyone, though, sees much value in purchasing gold for more than its snob appeal. "If somebody wants to have precious metals in their portfolio, we want them to keep it at a small portion," said Ray Russolillo, director of personal financial services for PricewaterhouseCoopers. "One of the big reasons is there is no current income generated from it, there is often a cost to holding the metal and typically it has been a long-term hedge against inflation." Mr. Russolillo prefers cushions that are more liquid.
The debate over whether gold and gold futures are an investment bargain these days may make stimulating conversation on the cocktail circuit, but jewelry lovers, it seems, have little sense of what all the fuss is about.
"From the research we've done about who knows about the gold price, 15 percent state that they knew what the price was," said Anne DiNuzzo, jewelry manager for the World Gold Council, "and half that 15 percent were wrong."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A name worth its weight in gold. (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); WORLD GOLD COUNCIL (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD GOLD COUNCIL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETAILERS (87%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANK FAILURES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); RETAIL SALES (63%); 

PERSON: RAY RUSSOLILLO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



623 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Brownfields;
Rethinking the Cleanup Rules for Polluted Sites

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
AARON MAIER, an environmental activist, surveyed the abandoned industrial plant that blights his poor neighborhood here on the banks of the Hudson River. The lot, vacant but for an abandoned factory building, was overrun by weeds, and the soil was soaked with toxic chemicals.
A few years ago, he would have called for the standard environmentalist's prescription: Clean up the property thoroughly, no matter what the cost to business or government. But today, Mr. Maier is convinced that that approach has frightened off potential developers and left old industrial tracts like the one here orphaned. He believes it would be easier to attract a developer if the law didn't require that the land be cleaned to a pristine condition, but rather just enough for another industrial plant. 
 His conversion may sound like heresy to some environmentalists, but it is easy enough to explain. Like many civic leaders in poor, largely minority communities across the country, Mr. Maier has concluded that decades of aggressive environmental policy have failed to solve pollution problems and have contributed to economic woes.
So Mr. Maier, who is black, and some other minority leaders from poor urban communities have found themselves in an unexpected alliance with big business as part of a national push by business interests to ease the cleanup standards for pollution-blighted properties commonly referred to as brownfields.
This new approach has created something of a crisis for environmentalists. For two decades, they have courted black and Hispanic leaders under the banner of "environmental justice," a movement rooted in the notion that poor communities are burdened with an unfair share of polluted properties.
BUT many minority leaders are now saying that while they are still committed to safeguarding the environment, that objective should not be achieved at the expense of economic opportunities for poor urban neighborhoods. They point out that in many poor neighborhoods, brownfields are neither cleaned up nor put to productive use.
"Our goals should be to promote economic development in these communities while protecting the environment," said Vernice Miller Travis, a former Harlem resident who used to head the Environmental Justice Initiative at the Environmental Resources Defense Council. "Those two concepts are not diametrically opposed. But it requires some different thinking than what we are used to."
Nationwide, there are about 450,000 brownfields with varying levels of contamination, according to private and public estimates. Roughly three dozen states, including New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts, have adopted new regulations to expedite the cleanup of such sites as long as they are not deemed so dangerous that they require extensive work under either state or Federal Superfund programs.
But strict cleanup laws adopted during the 1980's in the wake of Love Canal still exist in other states, including New York and California. Environmentalists have argued that abandoned industrial properties should be cleaned to a relatively high standard, and that the current owners should pay for the cleanup, even if they did not cause the pollution.
But business leaders counter that a high cleanup standard is unnecessary in many cases, particularly when a brownfield will be used for a factory and not for, say, a home or playground. More than that, though, they say that holding property owners responsible for cleanup costs has led many potential investors to shun brownfields and look elsewhere.
Ron Bruder is one of those investors. His company, the Brookhill Group, redevelops roughly 35 brownfields a year across the country, constructing shopping malls, office buildings and the like. But he has avoided states like New York, where, he says, environmental laws discourage brownfield use. "We'd love to do something in New York," he said. But the economics and the legislation don't work."
The New York City Partnership, a business group, has been pushing to relax the cleanup standards in New York. "If you set up cleanup standards that are unachievable, you end up in a no-man's land, and that's not good for anybody," said Jody Kass, an environmental expert with the group.
Even the staunchest environmentalists concede that more must be done to help poor urban communities clean up and re-develop brownfields. But the answer, they insist, is not to do away with current cleanup standards, particularly those intended to insure that the most dangerously polluted sites are cleaned up, no matter the cost.
Richard Brodsky, a Democrat who is chairman of the New York State Assembly's Environmental Committee, says he is disturbed that poor communities are being asked to surrender environmental protections in exchange for the promise of jobs.
I 'M concerned that business leaders are using the notion of redeveloping polluted inner-city sites as a way of gutting existing public health standards for all sites, now matter how dangerous they are," he said.
"This could be a way to redevelop minority inner-city communities," he added, "or it could turn into a way to re-poison minority inner-city communities. The jury is still out."
But Mr. Maier, the environmental activist from Albany, says the failures of current environmental policy are etched all over the bleak and empty industrial landscape of his neighborhood. He believes a change is long overdue.
"I am not talking about surrendering," Mr. Maier said. "I am talking about an honest appraisal of what can be done. Urban environmentalists like myself have been forced to rethink the old polices that have left the inner cities behind."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An old factory in Syossett, L.I., is among thousands of polluted brownfields around the country. (Kirk Condyles/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUPERFUND (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); CITIES (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); 

PERSON: AARON MAIER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



624 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: 'Thuggish' Tactics in Congress

 BODY:
Senator Mitch McConnell loves to invoke the First Amendment to justify the way politicians squeeze money from special interests. He and other Republican fund-raisers defend campaign contributions from businesses, unions and rich people as free speech. As it turns out, where they see free speech, others -- including some donors -- see extortion. A group of business leaders is now lobbying Congress to stop the shakedowns and approve campaign finance reform legislation banning "soft money" donations to the parties. Some even suggest that business donors just say no. Mr. McConnell is trying to get these executives to shut up. Evidently, for him, free speech has its limits. 
 A bill to ban soft money comes before Congress this fall. Most House members and senators favor the bill, but Speaker Dennis Hastert and Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, plan various means to intimidate the rank and file or gut the legislation if it cannot be blocked. That is why it is encouraging to see business and academic leaders step forward. The Committee for Economic Development, led by Edward Kangas, chairman of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and George Rupp, president of Columbia University, has enlisted scores of business executives to support various reforms, including the soft-money ban. Among those demanding change are current or retired executives at General Electric, the Sara Lee Corporation, the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company and many other concerns.
These businessmen have already drawn blood, as demonstrated by the wounded and threatening tone of a letter from Mr. McConnell demanding that various businesses resign from the committee. Mr. McConnell accused some of the committee leaders of trying to "eviscerate private sector participation in politics" by imposing "anti-business speech controls." He also warned that banning corporate contributions would "render the Republican Party powerless to defend pro-business candidates from negative TV attacks by labor unions, trial lawyers and radical environmentalists." The inference drawn by some donors is that if they do not behave, Republicans will not fight for their interests.
The idea that campaign reform is some sort of plot against Republicans is absurd. The soft-money ban has won support from former Presidents Gerald Ford and George Bush, as well as from Bob Dole and Howard Baker. But Mr. McConnell's letter, which one recipient characterized as "thuggish," at least clarifies what this fight is about. The Committee for Economic Development put it well when it replied to Mr. McConnell that "we find it ironic that you are such a fervent defender of First Amendment freedoms but seem intent to stifle our efforts to express publicly our concerns about a campaign finance system that many feel is out of control." Businesses are not demanding radical reform. They want a system in which the quality of the candidates and their positions, not their fund-raising skills, determines outcomes.
The House plans to act in September on campaign reform legislation sponsored by Representatives Christopher Shays of Connecticut and Martin Meehan of Massachusetts. The Senate plans to act on its version a month later. With public disgust rising, members of Congress must remember why they were elected in the first place, which was to pay heed to the voters, not to the clanging of campaign cash machines and the intimidating tactics of Mr. McConnell. As the Committee for Economic Development points out, campaign reform will not eliminate donations. The goal is to place reasonable curbs on a system that is now "out of control." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: PPL (NYSE) (67%); HSH (NYSE) (67%); HSH (LSE) (67%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (68%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (68%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (67%); NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (67%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (68%); PPL CORP (67%); HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (67%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (93%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXTORTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LOBBYING (79%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); LAWYERS (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); TRENT LOTT (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



625 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
Some VeryCloudy Crystal Balls

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
It didn't take long for Charles I. Clough Jr., 57, the chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch who announced his retirement last week, to be deemed a casualty of the bull market. He has favored bonds while the stock market has been rising at double-digit rates.
But that assumes, among other things, that there's something wrong with being wrong on Wall Street. If that were true, a lot of other people would be out of work. Consider these predictions for 1999: The Federal funds rate will be 4 percent by mid-year and the yield on the 30-year bond will fall to 4.5 percent. Wrong. Corporate operating earnings will decline 5 percent. Wrong so far. Markets in the United States could could come close to their October 1998 lows in the first half of 1999. Wrong. In fact, the Dow didn't come within 1,488 points of that low. 
 All these forecasts are courtesy of the other Merrill Lynch analysts who joined Mr. Clough at the firm's outlook conference last December. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Clough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (92%); MER (NYSE) (92%); 8675 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (71%); 

PERSON: CLOUGH, CHARLES I JR; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN CHARLES I CLOUGH JR (79%); CRYSTAL BALLS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



626 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Opportunities in Drug Stocks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Great American Stock Selloff," (Investing, Aug. 8):
Investor angst over President Clinton's proposed Medicare drug plan shows how superficial analysis can result in missed opportunity. 
 If a Medicare drug benefit plan is passed, and that is a big if, its impact on the pharmaceutical industry is likely to be positive. The plan will offer third-party coverage for several million Americans. Under most politically viable scenarios, there will be no difference between a Medicare patient and an average consumer with drug coverage as part of his insurance. This is a positive for seniors, the pharmaceutical industry and investors.
The only potential negative scenario is one where Medicare drug coverage results in Government pharmaceutical price controls for Medicare. This is not part of current proposals -- and for good reasons. Economically, the European experience has shown that price controls are ineffective. Politically, no proposal containing explicit price controls of innovative products would make it through Congress.
The market reaction is reminiscent of 1993-94, when President Clinton had bold plans for health care reform and pharmaceutical stocks hit the floor. Wise investors, however, saw a buying opportunity. But will we learn from the past?
 
DR. KENNETH LaPENSEE
DR. JOSEPH ZAMMIT-LUCIA
Manhattan, Aug. 16
 
The writers are managing consultant and president, respectively, of Cambridge Pharma Consultancy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) MEDICARE (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); BONDS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAPENSEE, KENNETH (DR); ZAMMIT-LUCIA, JOSEPH (DR) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



627 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 17; Column 1; Money & Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: DataBank: AUGUST23-27;
Swimming to Shore in Rough Waters

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
There was a bit more ebbing than flowing in a week that must have left traders and investors feeling as soggy as a Manhattan commuter caught in Thursday morning's torrential rains.
 With no moon to blame, all fingers pointed to the Federal Reserve, and its chairman, Alan Greenspan. 
 First, the flow. Convinced that the Fed would raise interest rates a bit but that it would be for the last time this year, traders pushed the Dow industrials to a new record on Monday -- 11,299.76.
 Then the ebb. After the Fed raised rates by a quarter-point, the Dow fell on Tuesday. A slight recov-ery on Wednesday was followed by three-figure declines on Thursday and Friday.
 That is where Mr. Greenspan returns to the picture. The dip on Thursday was attributed to suspicion that the Fed wasn't through for the year, after a report that consumer spending was more robust than expected. Concern grew when Mr. Greenspan on Friday made reference to the highly valued stock market.
 William Meehan, a Cantor Fitzgerald analyst, told Bloomberg News that Mr. Greenspan was holding to the notion that one never knows a bubble until it bursts -- that's where the risk is. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
 
Toys "R"Us
nyse: toy
On Thursday, the company said that its chief executive, Robert C. Nakasone, had resigned. Analysts said the action was prompted by the board, which had been unhappy with declining profits and market share.
Friday's Close -- $14.9375
Week'S Change -- -8.43%
EST. '99 P/E -- 9.61
 
Vodafone Airtouch
nyse: vod (A.D.R.'s)
The Times of London reported that the company was in talks to form a joint venture with Bell Atlantic in the United States. Three weeks ago, the two companies had agreed to split their wireless venture.
Friday's Close -- $205.00
Week'S Change -- +10.25%
EST. '99 P/E -- 53.41
 
Global Crossing
nnm: gblx
The company is expected to sweeten its offer for the Frontier Corporation. Global agreed to buy Frontier in July, but since then its shares have plunged, cutting about $1.4 billion from the value of the transaction.
Friday's Close -- $28.1875
Week'S Change -- -6.43%
EST. '99 P/E -- n.A.
 
Cisco Systems
nnm: csco
Shares rose on the company's growing Asian presence. Also, Cisco agreed to acquire two small companies to become the largest player in the market for computer networking equipment.
Friday's Close -- $68.50
Week'S Change -- +6.82%
EST. '99 P/E -- 70.33
 
Bank One
nyse: one
The bank said its 1999 earnings could be as much as 8 percent below forecasts because of lower-than-expected revenue from its First USA credit card unit. It cited heightened compe-tion for card customers.
Friday's Close -- $42.00
Week'S Change -- -24.15%
EST. '99 P/E -- 11.64
 
Grand Toys Int'l
nsc: grin
The company has the rights to distribute two popular toys, Pokemon and Furby. But The Wall Street Journal said some big investors were betting on a move away from companies that have benefited from the fads.
Friday's Close -- $16.8125
Week'S Change -- +135.97%
EST. '99 P/E -- n.a.
 
Silicon Graphics
nyse: sgi
Richard Belluzzo resigned on Monday as chairman, reportedly to become the head of Microsoft's Internet operations. Silicon Graphics just reported a profit for the first time in eight quarters.
Friday's Close -- $11.4375
Week'S Change -- -5.67%
EST. '99 P/E -- 35.97
 
Time Warner
nyse: twx
Shares tumbled after a Merrill Lynch analyst who had been a strong supporter of the company reduced 1999 earnings estimates to 35 cents a share from 48 cents, citing problems in the music business.
Friday's Close -- $61.50
Week'S Change -- -7.95%
EST. '99 P/E -- 167.12
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WEATHER (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (74%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; MEECE, MICKEY ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



628 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: IN MY... BRIEFCASE: EDWARD YARDENI

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
THE chief economist and global strategist for Deutsche Bank Securities, Edward Yardeni, is a favorite Wall Street figure for technology skeptics these days. After all, he has said that there is a 70 percent chance that Year 2000 computer problems will lead to a global recession.
 But as he prepared for a recent two-day, four-city trip to address the bank's West Coast clients, a look into his briefcase revealed that he is the kind of consumer the computer industry loves. "I always want the latest and newest, and I want it compact," he said. 
 Mr. Yardeni's laptop computer is a Sony Picturebook that he picked up six months ago. He carries a new, credit-card-sized Clik drive from Iomega to add 40 megabytes of portable memory. That gives him plenty of capacity for his research reports, E-mail and material for
 his Web page (www.yardeni.com), which gets about 6,000 visitors a day. He uses the built-in camera
 for Internet teleconferencing; his latest add-on is a headset from Dragon Systems that turns the laptop into a dictation machine.
 I'm confident everything is Y2K compliant, but I carry a pen just in case, he said.
 For a cell phone, Mr. Yardeni, 49, says he has stuck with a Motorola analog unit -- the smallest he could find -- because he had been disappointed with the quality of digital service in New York.
 And, just before leaving, he may also throw in "The Warburgs," Ron Chernow's biography of the banking family. "I'm working on a history of capitalism in my spare time," Mr. Yardeni said. BARNABY J. FEDER
 
http://www.nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: (Ruby Washington for The New York Times)
Photos: Edward Yardeni; HEADSET FOR DICTATION; "I'm a novice, but I'm getting into it."; LAPTOP; "I have my entire professional life in here."; CELL PHONE; "It's like something from Dick Tracy."; TO-DO FILE; "It's very thin because, as much as possible, I try to get things into the computer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE BANK AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (71%); TELECONFERENCING (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: YARDINI, EDWARD; FEDER, BARNABY J EDWARD YARDENI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



629 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Surplus Puts New York at Center of a Debate

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 28

 BODY:
With New York's public-assistance rolls at their lowest in more than a generation, the state has built up a $762 million surplus in Federal welfare money over the last three years, spurring a fierce debate over how best to spend it.
The administration of Gov. George E. Pataki is determined to set aside some of the money in a reserve fund to provide a cushion for the next economic downturn, when the welfare rolls will most likely grow again. But advocates for the poor say that more money should be spent on job training, transportation, child care and other programs that would help make the transition from welfare to work permanent for recipients. 
 The surplus is largely the result of widespread changes that the Federal Government made to its welfare program in 1996. Under those changes, the Government stopped paying states according to the number of welfare recipients they have on their rolls. Rather, the Government now gives states an annual allocation based on previous years when their welfare caseloads were high -- and before a booming economy and stiffer eligibility requirements pushed hundreds of thousands off the rolls.
The new welfare law allows states to carry over the unspent portion of their grant from one year to another. But unlike New York, other states in the metropolitan region have either spent all their Federal welfare money or say they plan to do so.
New Jersey, for example, has received $751 million since the new welfare law was enacted in 1996. By the end of last year, it had $242 million left in Federal account, or roughly 32 percent of its total grant. But state officials there say they have plans to spend the entire reserve on various programs for the poor, such as expanding child-care for low-income workers.
In Connecticut, state officials have spent all $590 million they have received since 1996, making the state one of just five that have used all their Federal money. The other four are Illinois, Nevada, Delaware and Maine.
New York has spent 85 percent of the welfare money it has received since 1996, but $762 million remained in its Federal account at the end of 1998. New York officials point out that about $260 million of that reserve has been earmarked for new programs like an expansion of child-care subsidies for the poor.
Like other states, New York contends that the number of people on welfare had dropped much faster than it expected, making it difficult for the state to use all the Federal money it was entitled to. That said, state social service officials point out that the state continues to make large investments in anti-poverty programs.
Indeed, the budget that was recently approved by Governor Pataki and the Legislature includes a $125 million expansion of a tax credit for 1.1 million low-wage workers. The budget also nearly doubled the amount that the state spends to subsidize child care for low-income working parents, to $839 million this year from $460 million last year.
But at the same time, officials say, the state has been able to accomplish two other important goals: providing additional money to local governments so that they can reduce the amount they spend on services to the poor, and establishing a reserve fund to increase benefits during and an economic downturn.
"It's a prudent use of the money," said John Madden, a spokesman for the state's Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. As it is, he added, "New York State spends more than $6 million a day on services for people on public assistance."
But advocates for the poor say the state is squandering an opportunity to invest in programs aimed at helping recipients enter the work force. They say that such investments are particularly important now that the state and Federal governments have set strict limits on the amount of time people are allowed to receive cash assistance under the welfare program.
Anne Erickson, the legislative coordinator for the Greater Upstate Law project, an advocacy group for the poor, was pleased that the state had made some investments in expanding child care and tax credits for the poor. But, she says, she is troubled that the state is using much of its money -- about $1 billion by the state's estimates -- to help counties reduce the amount they spend on poverty programs.
"These funds were intended to help the poor make a solid transition to employment," Ms. Erickson said. "By investing it in fiscal relief for local governments, the state is clearly missing an opportunity to make long-term improvements in the lives of poor people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CHILD CARE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX LAW (66%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



630 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Vancouver Is Astir Over Chinese Abuse of Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia, Aug. 27

 BODY:
The image of two tramp steamers disgorging 254 undocumented Chinese immigrants on beaches here this summer was enough for a local pharmacist to unleash a tirade about Canada's "lax" immigration law and "silly excuses" for refugee status, ending with a harsh finale: "We are being treated like suckers!"
Around the Pacific Rim, historically European societies have long had a visceral fear of unchecked immigration from China, the region's population behemoth. In the Russian Far East, the police often deport Chinese migrants. In Australia, jail terms were doubled last month for the crime of smuggling humans into the country. This summer, the United States and Canada have stepped up patrols in the Western Pacific, seeking to intercept boats filled with clandestine human cargo. 
 But what made the Vancouver pharmacist's outburst notable is that the speaker, Derick Y. J. Cheng, is the owner of a Chinatown drugstore, chairman of Vancouver's Chinese Cultural Center and a native of Fujian, the home province of the undocumented immigrants whose arrival this summer caused such furor.
With ethnic Chinese people accounting for 20 percent of greater Vancouver's population and Asians accounting for half of this fall's freshman class at the University of British Columbia, it is hard to accuse this city of anti-Asian intolerance.
But Mr. Cheng's anger, echoed repeatedly this month in letters to Vancouver's three Chinese daily newspapers and on talk shows on local Chinese radio and television stations, reflects how attitudes toward immigration are shifting sharply across Canada, a nation that probably has the world's most liberal immigration policies.
On a per capita basis, Canada receives more immigrants than any country in the world. As a result, about one in six Canadians is foreign born, double the ratio in the United States. Aiming to meet a target of 225,000 immigrants a year, Canada admits aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, fiances, common law spouses, and same-sex partners. On arrival, landed immigrants immediately are entitled to the same menu of health, welfare and university benefits as lifelong Canadian citizens.
But this summer's smuggling boats suddenly exposed a latent fear among Canadians that, because of their famous generosity and courteousness, they are becoming a nation of doormats.
"Feed our people first," read protest signs held as one boatload of undocumented Chinese were herded into a navy base near Victoria.
The local newspaper, The Times Colonist, advised the asylum seekers: "Go home. By plane. By boat. Just Go." The newspaper said that 97 percent of 3,362 respondents to its own poll wanted the clandestine migrants to be deported.
"This has really gone off the charts," said Gary Lunn, a member of Parliament from the area for the conservative Reform Party. "We have had over 1,000 people contacting my office to sign petitions. The phones have been jammed for weeks." This fall, Mr. Lunn said the Reform Party planned to introduce legislation to tighten Canada's immigration laws. He predicted that what he termed "the public outcry" would be so great that the governing Liberals would have to vote to restrict immigration.
It is too pat to dismiss the angry mood as limited to the Anglophile retirees of Victoria.
Two thousand miles to the east, in Toronto, a city that recently won a United Nations award for its racial tolerance, The Globe and Mail, the tribune of Canada's liberal establishment, published an editorial condemning loopholes in the immigration law with the headline, "The back door's open, come o-o-n in."
The arrival of the two boats, one on July 20 and the other on Aug. 11, drew into sharp focus a larger, but fuzzier illegal immigration problem. Every year about, 5,000 people flying to Canada tear up their documents on airplanes, and then apply for refugee status.
An increasingly popular practice is to apply for refugee status, and then disappear during the one year review period. That abuse has increased 20-fold during the 1990's, reaching 4,203 documented cases last year. Among nationalities, Chinese are the worst abusers of the system, with 53 percent of claimants vanishing after being released on refugee status during the first half of this year. During that time, 95 percent of Chinese claimants in Montreal and 72 percent of Chinese claimants in Vancouver disappeared. Most are presumed somehow to have sneaked or been smuggled across the border to the United States.
"There are 600 under review, only 200 show up, what do you think happened to the 400?" Mr. Cheng said, citing the estimates for Chinese refugee claimants in Vancouver last year. "They join the American underground economy. It's not fair to the U.S."
In light of that, Vancouver immigration officials claimed victory when only 5 out of 77 Chinese boat people released failed to show up Wednesday, one week after their initial release. While one arm of the Government is seeking to deport the undocumented Chinese, Government-paid lawyers try to block them at every turn.
In an effort to get the 53 minors in the group, mostly teen-age girls, to agree to go home voluntarily, the province's top child-protection official wrote them letters, saying, "I have been told that if you go to the United States, children of both genders will be forced to work as prostitutes or forced to work in a factory by the smugglers."
Lawyers for the children denounced the letter as an infringement on their right to seek refugee status.
Several victories of immigration lawyers across Canada have become notorious in the debate over who should get to stay in the country. Critics' favorites include an American woman given refugee status in Canada because her husband was violent and a convicted Guatemalan pedophile allowed to return to Canada after his deportation was ruled illegal.
But the national press repeatedly returns to undocumented Chinese as the threat. Today's National Post, for example, reported a Government estimate that two thirds of student visa applications received at the Canadian Embassy in Beijing are fraudulent.
Here in Canada's Pacific province, which has the nation's second-highest tax rate and 8.6 percent unemployment, economic factors fuel local anger. Newspapers dwell on the fact that the two-year cost of housing, feeding, and eventually deporting the Chinese could easily reach $3.5 million.
While the general discontent has acquired some racial overtones, even Victor Y. Wong, a Chinese-Canadian activist here, admits that, in modern Vancouver, today's debate swirls more around class than on race.
"These are working-class peasant farmers," Mr. Wong, said of the impoverished immigrants. "We have well-heeled Hong Kong Chinese, Canadian-Chinese and Taiwanese Chinese looking down their noses at them. They feel these people water down the community."
Mason Loh, a regular spokesman for Vancouver's 300,000-member ethnic Chinese community on English- and Chinese-language talk shows here, agreed.
"There is a feeling we are kicking out the business people and taking in the boat people," the Taiwan-born lawyer said. He said that the number of ethnic Chinese businessmen moving to Canada had dropped in recent years, partly because Canada has raised the minimum amount of investment money needed to get a visa. "The immigration system is not smart enough," he said. "We are pushing out the good quality people who can help Canada -- and we are taking in the freeloaders."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two ships left 254 illegal Chinese immigrants on Vancouver beaches this summer. Two girls were taken to hearings in Victoria. (Diana Nethercott for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Vancouver: Attitudes toward immigration are shifting sharply in Vancouver.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (57%); CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (56%); CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (56%); CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CHINA; BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA); VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); CANADA (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (96%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); PHARMACISTS (89%); DEPORTATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NAVIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (64%); PETITIONS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES GARY LUNN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



631 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: DDT, Target of Global Ban, Finds Defenders in Experts on Malaria

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
It has been 27 years since the United States banned the pesticide DDT, and the payoff is undeniable. The peregrine falcon, once pushed to the brink of extinction, came off the endangered species list this month, and the bald eagle may soon follow. Brown pelicans are flourishing in Florida. On the shores of Long Island, the ospreys are back.
Now the United Nations is drafting a treaty that may lead to a worldwide ban on DDT. But the negotiations, set to resume in Geneva next month, are drawing opposition from an unlikely quarter: public health professionals, who say DDT is necessary to stop the spread of malaria, a disease that kills as many as 2.7 million people each year, mostly children in undeveloped countries. 
 "A child dies of malaria every 12 seconds," said Dyann F. Wirth, a malaria expert at the Harvard School of Public Health and president of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. "That could go up dramatically if we lose this important control tool."
Dr. Wirth is among more than 370 medical researchers in 57 countries who are urging that the treaty allow DDT to be sprayed in small quantities on the interior walls of homes, where it acts as a repellent to the disease-carrying insects. The scientists argue that if the pesticide, which is cheap and effective, must be eliminated, it should be phased out gradually, and only if Western countries conduct research on the more expensive alternatives and help pay for them.
Some type of public health exception is likely, said Jim Willis, director of chemicals for the United Nations Environmental Program, which is sponsoring the talks. But the specifics are engendering intense acrimony between the public health experts and environmentalists, and have created some friction in the Federal Government, as it tries to formulate its policy for the negotiations.
"This poses an unusual dilemma," said a State Department official involved in the talks. "Usually the dynamic is protection versus economics. There, it is very easy for one side to paint the other as the black hat. But here there is a peculiar tradeoff between health and the environment."
Most countries no longer use DDT for agricultural purposes (or do not admit to it if they do), but experts estimate that 23 nations still use it for malaria control. The biggest users are China and India. Mexico has pledged to stop spraying DDT by 2007. And the World Bank has lent India $200 million to help devise alternatives to DDT.
The DDT dilemma stems from a United Nations plan to eliminate, or greatly reduce, the use of 12 toxic chemicals classified as persistent organic pollutants. The group -- "the dirty dozen" to environmentalists -- consists of eight pesticides, including DDT, as well as chemical byproducts and industrial chemicals. All accumulate in the food chain and can travel thousands of miles through air, water and bird migration, causing lasting contamination.
In her 1962 book "Silent Spring," Rachel Carson, a marine biologist, chronicled DDT's poisonous effects, showing, for example, how it killed the robins that ate the earthworms that dined on the leaves of Dutch elm trees that had been sprayed with the insecticide. The public outcry was tremendous; the book led to the establishment of the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970 and the United States ban on DDT in 1972.
The treaty negotiations on the group of pollutants began in 1998 and are scheduled to conclude by the end of next year. The Geneva meeting, which runs from Sept. 6 to 11, is the third of five scheduled sessions, but the first to examine each chemical in detail. Mr. Willis of the United Nations predicted "a rather thorough discussion of the DDT issue."
Among advocacy groups hoping to influence the talks, that discussion is already under way, and it is fraught with competing studies and statistics. Experts are arguing about everything from whether DDT is harmful to human health (the evidence is inconclusive) to whether the recent rise in malaria rates in Mexico results from cutbacks in spraying, or from last year's hurricanes, which provided fertile breeding grounds for mosquitoes. (The answer is probably both.)
"Positions have hardened," said Dr. Gerald T. Keusch, director of the Fogarty International Center, the branch of the National Institutes of Health devoted to promoting scientific research overseas. "In the heat it has not been possible to step back and look at the light."
On one side is the nonprofit World Wildlife Fund and Physicians for Social Responsibility, a doctors' group concerned with environmental health. They argue that even small amounts of DDT sprayed inside homes are harmful to the environment and cite studies suggesting that the pesticide turns up in the breast milk of nursing mothers and has other "subtle effects on human health."
Taking its cue from Mexico, the wildlife fund is pressing for a ban on DDT by 2007. But the idea of a specific date is extremely contentious, and the State Department official said the United States would not ask for one.
On the other side are two scientists' groups, the tropical medicine society, and the Malaria Foundation International, a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting research. Several months ago, at the behest, curiously enough, of a Vancouver environmental lawyer and cell biologist, Amir Attaran, the foundation posted a letter about the negotiations on its Web site, arguing that "setting a firm deadline to ban DDT places an unethical burden on the world's poorest countries."
As of Thursday, 371 scientists, including 3 Nobel laureates, had signed. As the group's founder, Dr. Mary Galinski, a molecular biologist at Emory University in Atlanta, explained: "We don't want a knee-jerk reaction to ban DDT."
The debate is occurring as malaria is making a deadly comeback, re-emerging in regions where it was once under control and killing many more people than it did decades ago, at least partly because of a reduction in DDT use. The World Health Organization estimates that there are 300 million to 500 million new cases of the disease each year, and last year started a project called Roll Back Malaria to combat it.
There are drugs to treat malaria, but some patients cannot afford them and drug resistance is an increasing problem. So the best means of prevention is to keep mosquitoes from biting people. At least one expert, Dr. Donald R. Roberts of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md., argues that "DDT is the best insecticide we have today for controlling malaria."
In the late 1970's, Dr. Roberts, a medical zoologist, traveled to Brazil to conduct experiments in malaria control. He built two houses and sprayed the inside of one with DDT. Hundreds of mosquitoes entered the unsprayed house, he said. None entered the sprayed house. Since then, Dr. Roberts has become an ardent defender of DDT. "We have got to stop pressuring countries to stop using DDT," he said. "It is immoral."
Others, including Dr. Galinski, say they have no problem eliminating the pesticide, so long as alternatives are in place. But that is a frightening thought to Dr. Wen Kilama, a Tanzanian entomologist who in June presided over an expert panel, convened by the World Health Organization, to debate the future of the pesticide in malaria prevention.
Because mosquitoes develop resistance to pesticides, Dr. Kilama says that getting rid of DDT would be a mistake. "The mosquitoes are very complex and one should not rely on one measure alone, particularly one type of insecticide," he said in a telephone interview last week. "It's like when you fight, you have a pocketful of arrows and now you have only one arrow left."
Tanzania no longer uses DDT; the country cannot afford it, Dr. Kilama said. But with the economy improving, he added, "I can see a lot of hope coming up" that Government-sponsored spraying might resume. In the meantime, some Tanzanians sleep under nets soaked in pyrethroids, another chemical. But the nets cost $4 to $5 apiece, too high a sum for many villagers, and Dr. Kilama said they work only by "mass effect," which means entire neighborhoods must use them.
Further south, in Botswana, health officials have also abandoned DDT, but for a different reason. Only three countries -- China, India and Mexico -- still manufacture the pesticide, and Thandie Phindela, a malaria control officer in Botswana's Ministry of Health, said the country could not get a reliable supply this year. "The environmentalists are trying to put pressure on the use of DDT," she said. "We had to resort to pyrethroids."
But pyrethroids are more expensive. According to Kathleen Walker, an entomologist with the E.P.A., the cost of treating one house with DDT ranges from $1.60 to $8.50, compared with $4.20 to $24 for pyrethroids. In the end, she said, some countries may have to abandon house spraying altogether and begin research on other, cheaper alternatives.
That is the World Wildlife Fund's view: its contaminants expert, Richard Liroff, urges "more creative thinking about moving away from DDT." He points to an experiment in India, where gambusia -- a larvae-eating fish -- were deposited in bodies of water where mosquitoes breed. But Dr. Kilama, of Tanzania, said such steps are not practical in a country where a hippopotamus footprint after a heavy rain can create an instant breeding ground.
As the debate continues, the World Health Organization is drafting its own plan to help countries cut back on DDT. But the organization has no idea how much the effort will cost; the price tag will vary from nation to nation. As to who will pay, said Jenny Pronczuk, a chemical safety expert, "Well, that's a problem."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DDT kills birds, but it also repels mosquitoes that spread malaria. (Sinclair Stammers/Photo Researchers); Health officials say DDT is needed to fight malaria's threat to poor children. In Kisii, Kenya, a father brought his child for treatment. (Reuters)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); KENYA (79%); CHINA (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); KENYA (79%); CHINA (79%); SWITZERLAND (77%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MALARIA; DDT (DICHLORODIPHENYLTRICHLOROETHANE); PESTICIDES AND PESTS PESTICIDES (91%); MALARIA (91%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BIRDS (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (86%); ORNITHOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); CHILDREN (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); CHEMICALS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; WIRTH, DYANN F (DR)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



632 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: New Trade Threat For U. S. Farmers

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
American farmers paid premium prices this spring to sow many of their fields with genetically engineered corn and soybeans, but now as the fall harvest nears, more of the international buyers they depend upon are saying they do not want those crops.
Consumers and food companies in a growing number of countries are shunning the new crops created by genetic engineers at such companies as Monsanto, DuPont and Novartis. Foreign consumers say they do not wish to eat the new foods like corn that have been altered to produce their own pesticide, and some companies are reacting quickly to consumers' desires even though no clear evidence exists that the crops are unsafe. 
 This week in Japan, for example, the Kirin Brewery Company announced that starting in 2001 it would use only corn that has not been genetically engineered. While bowing to customers' concerns, Kirin made clear that it did not think the products were unhealthy. A day later, Kirin's competitor, Sapporo Breweries, announced that it, too, would revert to traditional corn, which is an ingredient in some types of beer.
The biotechnology industry plays down the recent decisions of some food companies, saying they are overreacting to threats that aren't real. Most consumers, the industry says, do not mind these new products.
Until a few months ago, opposition to genetically altered foods was largely confined to Europe, and trade officials in the United States have been battling the European Union, which has stopped buying all American corn. But this summer, the Clinton Administration's efforts have grown increasingly urgent, in an attempt to contain the aversion to these crops that is leaping from continent to continent.
Japan, which now wants mandatory labeling of gene-altered products, is the largest importer of American crops, and Mexico, whose top producer of corn flour for tortillas is avoiding altered grain, is the second largest importer of American corn.
"This is a very significant trade threat," said Peter Scher, who directs the agricultural negotiations for the United States Trade Representative's Office. "The only thing I can tell farmers is that we are doing everything we can to sell their products overseas."
About a third of American crops, including soybeans and corn, are exported. This year, American farmers planted an estimated 60 million acres (the size of the United Kingdom) with genetically engineered corn and soybean seeds, accounting for nearly half of all soybeans in the United States and about a third of all corn.
Most farmers still expect that they will find a market for much of this year's corn and soybean crops, industry officials say. But they have already been told that seven varieties of gene-altered corn, representing about 5 percent of the expected harvest, will be rejected by corn exporters. Most of that will be ground into animal feed.
Next year's harvest looms as more troublesome, with public sentiment changing, foreign markets shrinking and the agriculture industry struggling to adjust.
For the first time this summer, many corn growers are dealing with costly new issues.
Local grain elevator operators, who buy and store wagonloads of corn to sell to the exporters, have begun asking farmers to separate some types of gene-altered corn from ordinary corn to appease international buyers.
Dennis Mitchell, a farmer in Houghton, S.D., has been an enthusiastic producer of gene-altered corn and planted 600 acres this spring, 80 percent of which is a crop altered to produce a toxin that kills the European corn borer.
He boasts that the new seeds have increased his yield by at least 15 percent, and he has received assurances from local elevator operators that he will be able to sell his grain this year.
But he is paying close attention to the tremors in the marketplace, especially now that American companies like Gerber and Heinz baby foods have announced that they will not use genetically altered corn or soy ingredients. And he is uncertain what he will do next year when spring planting season arrives. "I wish we could get this cleared up," he said. "I certainly can't raise anything I can't market."
Such uncertainty only adds to the problems of American farmers, who point out that this year's crop prices are the lowest in more than a decade.
"This is such a hard time for us, and then you compound that with this uncertainty," said Gary Goldberg, the chief executive of the American Corn Growers Association, a group that has been opposed to some practices of the biotechnology industry. It represents 14,000 independent farmers. "Farmers are going to get caught in the middle," he said.
Clinton Administration officials have repeatedly assured consumers that all of the genetically engineered crops that have been approved in the United States are safe for people to eat. And, indeed, there is no compelling scientific evidence that shows the foods are unsafe. But the crops are so new that there is not enough evidence to prove the foods' safety to a minority of scientists who say further studies need to be done.
Dan Glickman, the Secretary of Agriculture, said that the consumers' concerns seemed to be spreading like "an infectious disease."
"This technology," he said, "got a little bit ahead of the politics."
He and Federal trade officials have spent the summer pressing European leaders and agricultural ministers to reconsider what is essentially the European Union's moratorium on new types of gene-altered crops. They have threatened some countries with intercession by the World Trade Organization, arguing that restrictions on these foods run counter to the current science supporting their safety.
Genetic engineering is a process in which scientists splice one organism's genes into another. For example, scientists created the pesticide-producing corn by inserting a gene from a bacterium.
Most of the corn and soybeans have been altered to either produce their own pesticides or to be resistant to herbicides. The first gene-altered seeds were offered to farmers in 1996, and growers snatched them up, quickly making the new biotechnology into a multibillion-dollar business for the seed companies.
The biotechnology companies say that the food companies are caving in to pressure from environmental advocates who have written letters saying that consumers do not want these products.
"Consumers are turning away from these foods in enormously smaller numbers than the activists would have you believe," said L. Val Giddings, a vice president for food and agriculture at the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group of more than 800 companies in Washington.
Still, farmers and trade officials point to new problems. In Mexico, which bought $500 million of American corn last year, Grupo Maseca, the company that is the leading producer of corn flour, said recently that it would avoid importing genetically modified grain. The flour is made into tortillas, the Mexican staple.
In South Korea, another large importer of American grain, corn-processing companies said they were considering buying corn from China instead of the United States because of concerns about the altered crop.
And, in Japan, the Government passed a law requiring food companies to label products that have been genetically engineered. (In the United States, Federal officials have only recently said they will consider voluntary labeling.) Preparing for awareness generated by the labeling in Japan, a subsidiary of the Honda Motor Company said this week that it would build a plant in the United States and hire farmers to supply it only with unaltered, conventional soybeans. The soybeans, which would be exported back to Japan, would be made into tofu.
In the United States, where there has been little uproar over the foods, the baby food makers Gerber and H. J. Heinz were the first large food companies to reject the new products. Then Iams, the pet food company, said it would not buy the seven varieties of gene-altered corn that have not been approved by European regulators. Iams's announcement shut down an alternative route that farmers had for that corn that exporters will not accept.
The agricultural industry has begun responding, with exporters trying to devise new methods to bridge the growing gap between farmers and consumers. A two-price system -- higher prices for conventional crops and lower prices for genetically-altered crops -- is clearly developing. For example, this year, the Archer Daniels Midland Company has been paying some farmers an extra 18 cents for each bushel of non-altered soybeans.
The American Corn Growers Association, which represents mostly family farms, told its members last week that they should consider planting only conventional seeds next spring, unless a host of questions can be answered, including whether the United States will be able to export the genetically altered crops.
The National Corn Growers Association, which is about twice as big as the American Corn Growers Association, and has a financial partnership with Monsanto and some of the other agricultural companies, has not followed suit.
Susan Keith, the group's senior director for public policy, said that the association, which is based in St. Louis, was keeping farmers informed of what types of genetically altered corn could be the hardest to sell, but had not suggested that they consider planting only conventional seeds.
The worries about international trade have deepened farmers' fears of a bleaker economic future.
Prices for most crops are the lowest in 10 years, and farmers say they are concerned that grain prices are falling even further now that foreign consumers are turning away from genetically altered crops. But experts say prices have mostly been affected by the larger harvests in other countries, which have reduced the demand for grain from the United States. In addition, the financial crisis in Asia caused exports to fall last year and prices to drop. And overproduction of some crops continues to hurt prices.
For now, uncertainty about the next planting season is bedeviling the nation's farmers. They cannot predict where the next food backlash will surface and sometimes, even if they do, it is too late.
"It wasn't until May that farmers got word that Europe had not approved certain kinds of corn," Mr. Goldberg said. "By then, the corn was in the ground."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2503 (TSE) (70%); NVS (NYSE) (57%); NOVN (SWX) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (70%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (70%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (70%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); 

STATE: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (56%); 

CITY: SAPPORO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO; DUPONT CO; NOVARTIS AG KIRIN HOLDINGS CO LTD (70%); NOVARTIS AG (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO; DUPONT CO; NOVARTIS AG EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (56%); SAPPORO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; CORN; SOYBEANS GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); CORN FARMING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BREWERIES (88%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ANIMAL FOODS (77%); BEER & ALE (77%); PESTICIDES (73%); PRODUCT LABELING (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); FLOUR MILLING (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



633 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Suspect in Russian Money Laundering Is Denying Any Crime

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Aug. 28

 BODY:
One of the leading figures in an investigation into a possible global money laundering scheme denied today that he was involved in criminal activity.
Semyon Yukovich Mogilevich told the newspaper Moskovsky Komsomolets that Western investigators had no evidence against him. He said they were simply exploiting fears of Russian organized crime to expand their budgets. 
 "All accusations of 'laundering,' controlling the drug trade, prostitution and contract murders is nothing but the raving of the F.B.I., which is trying to obtain more money from Congress to fight the 'Russian mafia,' " Mr. Mogilevich said.
Born in Ukraine, Mr. Mogilevich, 53, was working in Budapest until a few weeks ago. He holds an Israeli passport and has interests in Canada and the United States, according to news reports.
He has been accused of amassing a huge personal fortune by dealing in Soviet arms after the collapse of the Soviet Union. An F.B.I. report on Russian organized crime said that when the Soviet Union withdrew its military forces from East Germany, many Russian generals sold their weapons to Mr. Mogilevich, who in turn sold them, at much higher prices, to countries like Iraq, Iran and Serbia.
A 1995 British intelligence report said he was worth $100 million.
Mr. Mogilevich has also been accused of engaging in a range of criminal activities, but he has never been indicted.
After fresh allegations surfaced recently -- about his role in the possible money laundering scheme in the United States involving as much as $15 billion -- he left Budapest and flew back to Moscow.
His precise whereabouts are unknown, and the interview published today was the first time he has made any public statements. Moskovsky Komsomolets said today's article was the first of several based on an interview with Mr. Mogilevich that it planned to print.
In today's article, Mr. Mogilevich mocked reports that he was an organized crime boss and insisted that there were no grounds for his arrest.
"How is it possible for a single Jew from Kiev with an economic education and who lives abroad to be stronger and craftier than all of the security forces in the world?" he said.
Asked if he had laundered money, Mr. Mogilevich joked that he had once left some bills in an old shirt before it was washed.
"Once I accidentally washed $5 I'd left in a shirt pocket," he said. "I must say they looked a lot cleaner after that. And the exchange bureau accepted them without any problems."
The allegations concerning Mr. Mogilevich are just part of a broader inquiry into the recent flow of billions of dollars out of Russia.
Last summer, the British authorities alerted the United States that as part of an investigation into the financial activities of Russian organized crime, it had found evidence of a vast money laundering operation involving the Bank of New York.
News reports have said $10 billion to $15 billion may have passed out of Russia through the Bank of New York. Russia's prosecutor said he would cooperate with the United States and the Britain in investigating the matter. On Friday, the Federal Security Commission said it would audit 33 companies involved with the Bank of New York.
Mr. Mogilevich said he had no connection with such vast money flows.
"If I could earn -- I don't mean steal -- just a third of that money, I could count my life a success," he said. "Alas, I can only read about such sums."

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); GERMANY (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); GERMANY (55%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME; MONEY LAUNDERING; BANKS AND BANKING MONEY LAUNDERING (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; MOGILEVICH, SEMYON YUKOVICH SEMYON YUKOVICH MOGILEVICH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



634 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4252 words

HEADLINE: LIFE AFTER WELFARE: Spending the Savings;
Leftover Money for Welfare Baffles, or Inspires, States

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Critics of the watershed welfare law of 1996 forecast any number of problems, from starving children to dwindling benefits to Depression-era soup lines. But virtually no one imagined the strange new condition startling the experts coast to coast: states have more Federal money, literally, than they know how to spend.
That is because the welfare rolls have dropped significantly while Federal financing remains, by law, fixed at historic highs. 
 Consider Wisconsin's version of the new welfare math. Five years ago, the state received about $317 million from the Federal Government, or $4,100 for each family on the rolls. Last year, the state still got $317 million, even though its rolls had fallen by more than 80 percent. That pushed the Federal aid to nearly $22,000 per case, and with the rolls still shrinking this year it may grow to $35,000, a bit more than the cost of a year at Harvard.
Awash in Federal dollars, the state has raised its welfare benefits 20 percent, created thousands of subsidized jobs and offered poor women door-to-door rides to mandatory motivation classes. It has also used the money to bring new support to needy families outside the welfare rolls, as the Federal law permits -- offering them child care, car loans, counselors and annual cash bonuses of up to $1,600.
Still, it had enough Federal anti-poverty money left over to shift more than $100 million, through some creative accounting, into a tax cut for the decidedly nonpoor.
By contrast, Idaho and Wyoming have let their millions gather dust as their safety nets for the poor contract. Mississippi and Texas made modest increases in their notoriously low benefits.
New York is increasing the wage supplements it offers low-wage workers. But it has also used $1 billion of its Federal welfare money simply to sustain existing programs it once financed itself, a trade that frees state and local dollars but offers no new services to the poor. While many states have pursued similar budgetary swaps, few have done so as brazenly as Minnesota, where Gov. Jesse Ventura of the Reform Party drew arrows in his budget and spelled out the goal: "Replace state spending with Federal dollars."
This flood of Federal dollars has created a rare, perhaps even unprecedented, moment of opportunity in programs for the poor. And it is almost wholly an unintended one -- a rich new financing stream for anti-poverty efforts created by the most conservative Congress in a generation.
Seeking to revamp welfare and restrain its costs, a newly Republican House and Senate reached a grand bargain three years ago with the nation's governors. The states got new flexibility to run welfare programs as they choose. In exchange, they accepted five years of flat Federal financing. In the phrase of the time, the governors, predominantly Republicans themselves, promised to do more with less.
Instead they wound up with more -- much more, on a per-case basis -- than anyone predicted as a combination of a strong economy and tough new rules have pushed welfare rolls to stunning lows. Last year alone, Federal payments to the states were $6 billion higher than they would have been under the old law, when falling caseloads meant smaller subsidies. Now in another twist, there is an intramural Republican dispute between Congressional leaders who want to reduce the windfall and conservative governors who, protecting their budgets, find themselves in the unusual posture of championing welfare money.
On the ground, the new financing is altering the anti-poverty landscape in surprising ways. It has created the potential for new services in pockets of poverty long starved for cash and helped Florida find a prominent new place among the nation's innovators. It has left a startling financial imbalance across the Wisconsin-Illinois border, where welfare disputes have long raged. It has defined a new Western Mountain regionalism, from Idaho to New Mexico, where Federal financing has brought new bounty but state services are notably few.
With vast new freedom to use the money as they see fit, states can intensify services for those left on welfare or extend a new hand to the working poor, buy drug treatment in the inner city or build bus lines to job-rich suburbs. But much of this opportunity is passing by unseized, according to an analysis of state spending records conducted by The New York Times. While some of the windfall has brought some new services, at times in the innovative ways predicted by the proponents of state control, nearly a quarter of the Federal money awarded to date remains unspent.
That leaves a pool of idle anti-poverty money totaling more than $7 billion, a figure that current trends would push to $22 billion by 2002 when the welfare law expires. And billions more of the Federal grants have merely replaced state spending, bringing no new benefits or services to the poor.
Of course, progress against poverty cannot be measured solely by the number of Federal dollars spent. Some states have deliberately created reserves, exercising what they say is appropriate caution in case of economic downturns; others have squandered new opportunities through inertia and political infighting. Many say the unspent money is not as idle as it looks, arguing that large portions have been earmarked for programs still being developed. Still, the magnitude of the surpluses is commanding increased attention.
The Times analysis is based on the quarterly financial reports each state must file with the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, interviews with state officials and an in-depth look at three states with markedly different experiences. The financial reports, the most recent available, cover state spending through the end of last year.
The analysis yielded four significant findings:
*On average, the Federal Government now awards states 64 percent more per family than it did five years ago, before the new law took effect. In 1994, the average Federal subsidy per family was about $3,200 a year. Last year, with the same amount of money but far fewer people on the rolls, the average subsidy rose to nearly $5,300 a year. While the money can be spent on any needy family -- not just those on welfare -- the magnitude of the increase is a measure of the new opportunity states have to expand anti-poverty programs.
In 12 states, the Federal payment per case more than doubled. Six of those states are in the South, creating the potential -- as yet little-realized -- to significantly expand new services in some of the nation's poorest regions. In Mississippi, the nation's second-poorest state, the Federal payment per family rose 158 percent. In Louisiana, the third-poorest state, the payment rose 86 percent.
*While every state's Federal subsidy per family has grown, the politically volatile disparities between the states have grown as well. That raises the potential that bitter new fights will erupt in 2002, when the current financing formula expires.
In 1994, the states with the largest subsidies, New York and Alaska, received about $5,000 per case, while the state with the smallest subsidy, Mississippi, received about $1,460. That is a ratio of just over 3 to 1.
Federal financing at the time depended in large part on how much of its own money each state spent on welfare.
Now with each state's rolls declining at a different pace, the historic differences built into current arrangements have been amplified. By last year the state with the highest subsidy, Wisconsin, received $21,600 per case.
That is more than six times the amount the Government sends to its neighbor, Illinois, which received the lowest payment, $3,400 a month.
Fights over financing stalled Congressional action for months in the last welfare debate.
*Much of the windfall has failed to translate into new benefits or services for the needy. Though Federal subsidies for each family have risen by 64 percent, the rise in actual spending has been much more modest -- just 28 percent, when total spending is divided by the caseload.
That is because significant Federal sums are going unspent, and others are being used merely to replace previous state spending. With Federal financing fixed, states cut their own spending last year by 21 percent, or nearly $3 billion.
Examine the math in Pennsylvania. Last year, the state received $257 million more than it would have under the old system. But it left $158 million of the Federal money unspent, and it reduced its own welfare spending by $109 million. The state's Federal subsidy per family rose 56 percent. But its actual spending, when divided by its caseload, rose much more modestly, by 23 percent.
*The states slowest to spend the anti-poverty dollars include some of the neediest. By the end of last year, New Mexico, the poorest state, had spent just 69 percent of the money awarded to date. Mississippi and Louisiana, the next two poorest, spent 61 percent and 63 percent, respectively.
On average, by the end of last year, states had spent 78 percent of the $34 billion awarded since the new law took hold. Wyoming and Idaho are, by far, the most reluctant to use the Federal money, spending 9 percent and 24 percent, respectively.
Nineteen states had accumulated more than $100 million in unspent anti-poverty money. They include Texas ($326 million), Tennessee ($169 million) and Louisiana ($122 million) -- all home to infamous stretches of entrenched poverty.
At most these ledgers can offer a limited look at the poor. They measure what states are spending -- not what states are spending on or whether their spending is effective. They make no distinction between the $14 million Mississippi spent to raise welfare payments and the $35 million it spent on new computers for state officials. (The Mississippi benefit is now $170 a month for a family of three, a raise of $50.)
No one knows whether new spending will reduce poverty, as advocates hope, or increase waste and dependency, as critics of social spending fear. And if states have more money per case, that is only because the caseloads keep shrinking -- that is the central development of the new welfare age, and it can signal either new progress (for those with jobs) or new distress (for those merely dropped from the rolls).
As of March, the nation's welfare rolls had dropped 47 percent from the 1994 peak, and in six states they dropped more than 70 percent. Eyeing such numbers, some members of Congress argue that states now have more money than they need, and they are talking of reducing the grants. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert made a brief pass at cutting the program during Congressional budget deliberations last month.
In response, a coalition of unlikely partners has emerged, serenading the governors (31 Republicans, 17 Democrats, 1 independent and Mr. Ventura) with a use-it, don't-lose-it refrain. That group includes liberal advocates with long wish lists of programs for the poor, Clinton Administration officials, from the President on down, who want to protect domestic spending, and some of the Congressional Republicans who wrote the 1996 law and are eager to see it produce tangible benefits.
"The time is rapidly approaching where it will not be possible to protect these funds," wrote Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut, in a March letter to all 50 governors. "Spend the money."
While last year's figures are the most recent available, some analysts say spending has risen in recent months as states have grasped the size of the surpluses and the range of programs they can create. "States are recognizing there's money there and they can do things they never imagined before," said Jack Tweedie, a welfare specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
But paradoxically, the exhortations to spend have made some state officials even more reluctant to create new programs, for fear they will be left to finance them alone.
"Everybody's afraid the money will be taken away," said State Representative Garnet Coleman of Texas, a Democrat from Houston who sits on the appropriations committee. "We didn't want to fund things where we'd have to cut off individuals when we ran out of surplus."
When states do spend, they are much more likely to expand services -- like job placement or especially child care -- than to raise cash benefits. Many states have doubled or even tripled spending on child care, often broadening eligibility to all low-income families. Florida has gone even further, adding $66 million in other services for families not on welfare, including drug and mental health treatment. "It's a new way of thinking about welfare -- getting into more of a preventive mode," said Don Winstead, the state's director of welfare reform.
While expanding services, Florida now spends only 30 percent of its welfare money on monthly grants to the poor, and it has not raised the payment, $303 for a family of three, in seven years. Nationally the average welfare grant for a mother with two children has risen by about 5 percent since 1995, to $408 a month, about a third of the amount the Federal Government says a family needs to escape poverty.
While states promised to do more with less, some are doing less with more.
Six states have cut grants, including Idaho, which now offers an average payment of $3,300 a year. Meanwhile, its Federal subsidy per case soared to more than $17,000 last year, and more than three-quarters of its money remained unspent.
In 50 state budgets reside 50 different stories. The bold spending in Wisconsin, the paralysis in New Mexico, and the deal-making in Texas offer a representative three.
 
Wisconsin
A Windfall Provides Something for All
No one would accuse Wisconsin of ending welfare on the cheap. But even the state's famously expensive program finished last year with an eye-popping surplus -- nearly $350 million in unspent Federal money.
The moral of the story that followed is that surpluses can make strange bedfellows. Inside the Legislature, the program's harshest critic, State Senator Gwen Moore, and one of its authors, State Representative John Gard, went behind closed doors and divided the money in a deal that delighted them both.
Ms. Moore got nearly $100 million over the next two years for new benefits and services for the poor.
Mr. Gard got just over $100 million for a cut in property taxes.
The agencies that run the largely privatized program got nearly $65 million in profit. And still there was enough left over to keep nearly $100 million in reserve.
"It was a love fest," Ms. Moore said.
Oddly enough, the program generating these surpluses, Wisconsin Works, or W-2, is known for its willingness to spend. Virtually everyone receiving cash assistance is required to work. But the state has expanded job-placement services, hired new counselors, offered guarantees of child care, created thousands of community service jobs and raised benefits to $673 a month, higher than anyplace outside Alaska or Hawaii.
Costs per case have risen accordingly, to about $21,000 a family last year, from $7,000 in 1996.
Wisconsin has also increased its spending on other needy families, to reward them for staying off the rolls. It has doubled the size of its child care program, in part by tapping its welfare money. And using other pools of state and Federal money, it offers low-wage workers subsidized health care and annual wage supplements.
"I've told Congress, and I've told taxpayers, you can't do this cheaply," said Tommy G. Thompson, the state's four-term Republican Governor, whose support for spending has often raised eyebrows among his Republican colleagues. "You have to spend more in the beginning to save on the back end."
But even Mr. Thompson has been surprised by the caseload declines; when forced to work for welfare, most recipients have chosen to fend for themselves. By the end of last year, the state had spent only 56 percent of the Federal money awarded to date.
Among those most alarmed by the falling rolls is Ms. Moore, a Milwaukee Democrat who represents many former recipients and who once was on welfare herself. In her view the costly program makes harsh demands that drive troubled families away while enriching social workers and subcontractors. "The people we kicked off the rolls are still out there," Ms. Moore said, "and they're not getting served."
Spying the surplus, she wanted more money for a long list of causes, and she won most of them -- child care, drug treatment, job training, youth services and higher payments for relatives who care for abandoned children. (Many of the new services had been proposed by Mr. Thompson, who continues to talk of the need to invest.)
Ms. Moore's longtime adversary, Mr. Gard, is a north woods Republican from a county with a caseload of one. What he wanted was a tax cut. "I just believe the average working family needs to see some benefit," he said. Mr. Gard argues that more money actually harms the program, by encouraging too much social work and too little self-reliance. "The only way to keep the program from getting out of control is to pull out money when you can," Mr. Gard said.
He backed a plan that uses $108 million in Federal money to replace previous state spending on wage supplements for the working poor. The state money was then converted into a tax cut for property owners. The deal, embraced by leaders of both parties, awaits final ratification by the Legislature. "We both left the room smiling," Ms. Moore said.
Congressional budget hawks will no doubt frown at the size of the state's windfall. But Governor Thompson said any reduction in the state's grant would punish it for its success. "We're getting results," he said. "Isn't that what the Federal Government wanted?"
 
New Mexico
Political Fights Yield Little Action
While Federal money soothed old fights in Wisconsin, it brought new ones to New Mexico. And the poor have paid the price.
Three years into the new welfare age, the state newly ranked as the nation's poorest is still recovering from a constitutional showdown between a defiant governor, who tried to seize control of the program, and the state Supreme Court, which found him in contempt of its order to relent.
Welfare directors have come and gone, leaving the department without direction. And millions of Federal dollars have gone unspent, while thousands of jobless New Mexicans have been dropped from the rolls.
The conflict began in the spring of 1997, when the Democratic Legislature passed a welfare bill that contained an expansion of employment services. Gary E. Johnson, the state's two-term Republican Governor, vetoed it and unilaterally imposed one of the nation's most restrictive programs. It cut off thousands of families already on the rolls -- not by helping them find jobs, but by changing the formula used to determine their eligibility.
Angry Democratic legislators sued, arguing that the Governor needed their vote to make such changes. The state Supreme Court agreed in a unanimous decision, ordering him in September 1997 to end the program. When Mr. Johnson defied their order, the justices returned three months later and cited him for contempt.
Mr. Johnson ended the program. But the rolls had already been cut in half and surpluses were mounting -- though much of the state was still lacking rudimentary employment services. The Legislature met in the spring of 1998, and with the Governor's help, designed yet a third program.
On paper, it is rich in new services. It extends job-placement programs beyond the welfare population, to any poor New Mexican family. It creates lucrative subsidies for employers who hire welfare recipients. And it raises welfare benefits by offering a $100 monthly increase to any family not receiving a housing subsidy.
But with the Department of Human Services now on its third secretary in three years, bureaucratic progress has been painfully slow. It took until last October just to hire a job-placement agency along the state's southern border, where county unemployment rates are as high as 33 percent.
Though the Legislature set aside $4.5 million to subsidize employers who hire recipients, the department has scarcely tapped the fund, creating just eight jobs. And it has yet to extend its job-placement services to the poor not on welfare, as the Legislature directed a year and a half ago.
Alex Valdez, the department's new secretary-designate, said the idea remained under consideration. "That has not been implemented yet," he said, declining further explanation. "That's as far as I can go."
The state did use its Federal money to expand its subsidized child care program, raising the number of children covered to 20,000, from 7,000 just two years ago.
But by last spring, the department was facing new turmoil in the form of escalating rolls. Many of those who had been pushed off welfare were streaming back in. While the caseloads were still well below their historic levels, the state suddenly forecast something unheard of in the new age: a coming welfare deficit. The Legislature then canceled most of the benefit increase it had passed the previous year.
New Mexico finished last year with $67 million in unspent money and a record of missed opportunity that few are eager to defend. "The money's been available but no program's been implemented," said State Senator Manny Aragon, a Democrat who serves as the president pro tem. "I don't think we've done a very responsible job."
 
Texas
Modest Programs In Poverty Aid
Welfare has not grabbed the headlines in Texas that it has in other states. Though Gov. George W. Bush broadcasts his identity as a "compassionate conservative," he has left less personal imprint on his program than many other governors have left on theirs.
The program was devised in 1995 by a Democratic Legislature, which vested much of its control in 28 local boards, made up of business leaders, educators and social workers appointed by elected officials. Their development has been impeded by political fights, and two are still being formed. As a result, the availability of social services varies widely from place to place.
Still, caseloads are plunging nearly everywhere. Like most of the country, the program emphasizes a strict, "work-first" philosophy, seeking quick placements in low-skilled jobs as opposed to education or training. And it makes an energetic effort to dissuade new applicants from coming on the rolls. Would-be welfare recipients must first attend an orientation talk -- often requiring a second trip to another office -- before they can get benefits.
The state actually has more families seeking aid each month than it had four years ago. But with welfare harder to get and harder to keep, the rolls have fallen 60 percent.
For State Representative Rob Junell, the chairman of the House appropriations committee, that has created the kind of problem an appropriator loves to mull: a projected two-year welfare surplus of nearly $600 million. Huddling with his committee, Mr. Junell, a Democrat, spent the spring devising a something-for-everyone plan.
About 40 percent of the money went to social programs previously financed with state dollars. (Some of the freed-up state money was then reinvested in health programs.) Another 20 percent got placed in reserve, in case of an economic downturn. That left about 40 percent -- or $200 million -- for new benefits and services.
Some were of the kind that many states have emphasized -- more child care (Texas has nearly doubled the number of children getting subsidies) and counseling for especially troubled families. But the package also contained a surprise: $62 million, over two years, to finance the state's first increase in monthly benefits in 16 years.
To be sure, it was a modest one. The Legislature raised the monthly benefits of a mother and two children to $201, from $188. That is lower than any state but Alabama ($164), Mississippi ($170), Tennessee ($185) or Louisiana ($190). Texas also added an annual back-to-school payment of $60 for every welfare child.
Small as the raise in benefits was, Mr. Junell said, it survived only by avoiding publicity in an anti-welfare state. "It was very quiet, which is how I like it," he said.
A windfall for the state, a modest expansion of aid to the poor -- the Texas experience seems a telling example of the country's experience as a whole.
Patrick Bresette, associate director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, an Austin research and advocacy group, contends that the state has missed a historic opportunity. "I do want to give them credit for some of the things they did," he said. "But they had the chance to dramatically fix things for low-income families, including working families. In a state with as much poverty as Texas, we could have done a lot more."
The new welfare law is doing wonders for the state budget -- but is it also helping the poor?
Mr. Junell, a Democrat who represents the rural area around San Angelo, gives a refreshingly candid answer. "I'm out here in sheep and goat country -- I may not be the best person to ask," he said. But with the state now getting $300 million a year more than it would have under the old system, he is firm in one conviction: he does not want Congress to take any of it back.
"We're gonna fight 'em tooth and nail," he said. "Out here in Texas, a deal's a deal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After joining the Wisconsin Works program, Tanya Moore found a part-time job and got day care for her daughter, Michaela, 1. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 31)
 
Graphs: Welfare cases have plunged while Federal financing stayed fixed, leaving the states with a large amount of Federal welfare money unspent. The graphs shows:
 
1994: 5.0 million cases
1998: 3.1 million
$34.4 billion given to states from 1997 to 1999
$7.4 billion unspent
$27.0 billion spent
(Source: New York Times analysis of data from the Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. 1)
 
"A Dramatic Drop in Caseloads . . ."
Percentage decrease in the number of welfare cases in each state from 1994 to 1998.
 
". . . Left States With Money Unspent"
Percentage of Federal money given from 1997 to 1999 for welfare programs that has not been spent. The graph also shows the federal financing for welfare programs from 1997 to 1999 Dollar amounts in millions. (Source: New York Times analysis of data from the Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. 30)
 
"The New Welfare Math"
Though the welfare rolls are plunging, Federal grants to states remain fixed at historic highs. As a result, every state has more money per family than it did in 1994. The states can spend the money on welfare recipients or on other low-income families. The graph shows how much financing each state recieves. (Source: New York Times analysis of data from the Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (72%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (72%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (72%); REPUBLICAN HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RIVERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); STARVATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TAX LAW (73%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



635 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 8; Page 16; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: BOATING REPORT;
Sailor Prefers Old Yacht Over the New for Races

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD

DATELINE: JAMESTOWN, R.I.

 BODY:
One might think that Jim Bishop had struck it rich from the names of his boats: Golddigger, Gold Dust, Nugget, Prospector, Fool's Gold and Motherlode. But you would not know it by the kind of sailboat he races.
While other big-boat owners are coming up with newer and faster custom-made grand prix yachts each season, the 66-year-old Bishop continues to compete with his 44-foot, nine-year-old Golddigger. It cost about $400,000 fully rigged, roughly half of what it would cost to build and campaign a grand prix boat. 
 As chairman of Caithness Resources, an exploration and mining company based in New York, Bishop could probably afford a newer boat. He has homes in Saddle River, N.J., and West Palm Beach, Fla., as well as in Jamestown. But he refuses to sink money into a boat that will quickly become outdated.
Instead, Bishop spends some of his money keeping a 70-foot antique houseboat, the Coastal Queen, to use as a mothership for the J/44 sailboat race series, of which he was one of the founders. As many as 16 J/44's compete in a Northeast circuit that has organized 36 races this season, from Long Island Sound to Narragansett Bay.
The J/44, sailing's boat of the year after being introduced in 1989, is the only one-design class that has had its own start in the Newport to Bermuda Race. This year, the group's North American championship is scheduled for Sept. 10-12 at the Larchmont Yacht Club in Larchmont, N.Y.
Golddigger, like other J/44's, is made to race across oceans as well as around buoys. Its cruiser-racer pedigree gives it a longer life than many of the new sailboats competing under grand prix or club-level handicap rules. "I won't race a boat I can't take to Bermuda," Bishop said.
Bishop has vivid memories of the time in 1984 when he sailed a grand prix boat in the Newport to Bermuda Race. Rough seas started to delaminate the boat's hull, which was built to be lightweight and fast, but not particularly safe. The composite construction did not hold up as well as wood or solid fiberglass might have.
"We had to shove boat fenders between the boat's longitudinal stringers and its outer skin to keep it from breaking apart," Bishop said recently of the 42-footer.
Composite boats can be built to stand up to those conditions with today's technology, but they would be unlikely to beat grand prix competition. At 33,000 pounds, Golddigger is nearly 18,000 pounds heavier for its size than many of the stripped-out, high-tech yachts built solely for inshore races. It has a teak interior, two fresh-water showers, a generous galley and enough bunks to sleep eight comfortably.
"If I go out and spend $1 million to buy a new boat," Bishop said, "my chances of winning might be one in 20. Then the next year, the boat is obsolete. The economics just don't make sense. The sailing industry is chasing the wrong god, and forcing people who can't keep up out of the sport."
Those who do keep up, of course, spend the money at the grand prix level. Eric Goetz, a boat builder from Bristol, R.I., has constructed the New York Yacht Club's two new boats for the 1999-2000 America's Cup trials. He caters to boat owners who might want a new yacht for a specific regatta, or to keep up with changes in sailing's handicap rules.
"It's like the Indianapolis 500," Goetz said. "You don't race in a 1998 car in the 1999 race. Whether it's a displacement hull or a new Indy engine, it's basically the same thing. You try to win in the forum you want to be in."
For Bishop and his cronies, racing among themselves offers the best competition. Owners cannot make changes to their boats unless the others agree to make the same improvement. And the unity does not stop there. The group spent about $150,000 for 15 sets of new sails and hired a manager to oversee the inventory. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (56%); LARCHMONT YACHT CLUB (61%); NEW YORK YACHT CLUB (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: LARCHMONT YACHT CLUB (61%); NEW YORK YACHT CLUB (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (76%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOATING & RAFTING (90%); SAILING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (89%); BOAT RACING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); MINES & MINING (55%); 

PERSON: ERIC GOETZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



636 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9;Page 9;Column 1;Society Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Maia Samuel and George Olley

 BODY:
Maia Tessa Samuel and Prof. George Steven Olley are to be married today at the Inn at Mystic in Mystic, Conn. James Mallove, a Connecticut justice of the peace, is to officiate.
Ms. Samuel, 36, will keep her name. She is a segment producer for "Dateline NBC" in New York. She graduated from Oxford University. 
 Her father, Dan Samuel of Westport, Conn., and Chicester, England, is a business consultant who retired as the president and chief executive of the Scallop Corporation, which was a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group; he was also a director of Royal Dutch/Shell. Her mother, Esther Samuel of Ridgewood, N.J., is an artist. The bride's great-grandfather the late Viscount Samuel was the High Commissioner of Palestine from 1920 to 1925.
Professor Olley, 37, is an assistant professor of economics at Georgetown University in Washington. He graduated from the University of Saskatchewan and received a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Wisconsin.
He is the son of Shirley Olley and Dr. Robert Olley of Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario. His mother is a computer consultant in Niagara-on-the-Lake, where his father, who retired as a professor of economics at the University of Saskatchewan, is an economics consultant. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report last Sunday about the wedding of Maia Tessa Samuel and George Steven Olley misstated the employment history of Dan Samuel, the bride's father. He was a director of the Shell International Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, not a member of Royal Dutch/Shell's board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (91%); RDSA (AMS) (91%); RDS.B (NYSE) (91%); RDS.A (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (91%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAKES (65%); 

PERSON: SAMUEL, MAIA TESSA; OLLEY, GEORGE STEVEN ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



637 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 1;Column 1;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3319 words

HEADLINE: The Race to Cash In On the Genetic Code

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE, Md.

 BODY:
BEFORE there was an Internet bubble, before biotechnology left a bad taste in money managers' mouths, capital was ventured and shares were sold in a group of companies that aimed to leapfrog the Government's multibillion-dollar effort to map the human genome. By sequencing and patenting genes ahead of the publicly financed laboratories, the investors thought, these companies would control the next era of health care -- and make their founders and shareholders rich.
But now, as the international race to spell out the precise sequence of the three billion letters in the human genetic code sprints to the finish line, the markets are demanding that the gene merchants deliver the goods. Investors are starting to demand not just science, but a viable business model, too. 
 To the victors will belong an asset of almost unfathomable value: the source code of life itself. By sequencing the DNA in all 100,000 genes in the human body -- that is, by divining the order of the four chemicals that make up the genes -- scientists hope to treat diseases in much the same way that software engineers fix faulty computer programs: by isolating flaws in the code.
If the effort is successful, health care will shift from a paradigm of detect and treat, typically with toxic drugs that sometimes do no more than mask symptoms, to predict and prevent, with therapies of exquisite specificity aimed at the causes of disease. By identifying the genetic roots of illnesses like cancer and heart disease, some experts say, the science of the genome, or genomics, may make it possible for a child born today to live to 150 -- or, some say, much longer.
"Death is a series of preventable diseases," said Dr. William A. Haseltine, chairman and chief executive of Human Genome Sciences here, declaring the philosophy behind the industry he is helping to invent.
Other genomics leaders have less trouble with that assertion than with Dr. Haseltine's contention that his company already has sequences for 95 percent of the human genes and is amassing a patent portfolio that will make it the gatekeeper for the entire biopharmaceuticals industry.
Assertions like that have always irritated Dr. Francis S. Collins, the director of the Human Genome Project at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. For some of the companies, he said, "financial viability appears to be tied to claims of exclusivity," while the Government's goal is to sequence all the human genes and place them in the public domain for the common good.
Indeed, the whole concept of patenting the bits of biochemical information known as genes offends many, from religious leaders to scientists, including James Watson, a co-discoverer of DNA, who resigned as the original head of the Human Genome Project over this issue. While the Patent Office has established rules meant to clarify what kind of genetic discoveries can be patented, the issue is by no means resolved.
The genomics companies have filed patents by the thousands, but only a few hundred have been published, fewer still issued and none of those yet defended in court. So any claims of strong patent positions remain unproven.
But genomics is all about big claims. Last year, Dr. J. Craig Venter, a former N.I.H. researcher, shook up the field when he started a new company, now called Celera Genomics Group, a separately traded subsidiary of the PE Corporation, which he said would complete the sequencing of the human genome in 2001, about two years ahead of the public labs.
Dr. Venter's announcement was greeted with considerable skepticism, but it prompted Dr. Collins to move up his goal for completion, too; he now expects a rough draft of the human genome by next spring and a complete genome a year later.
The acceleration of the public and private efforts has already led to a rough winnowing of the genomics field, with some companies disappearing in mergers and others trading at such low share prices that their ability to raise capital and remain independent is doubtful.
A couple of broad strategies have emerged, meanwhile, among the best-capitalized companies.
Human Genome Sciences and Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc., of Cambridge, Mass., intend to sell drugs, developed with capital raised in a few high-value deals with pharmaceutical companies. Two others, Incyte Pharmaceuticals Inc., of Palo Alto, Calif., and Celera, in Rockville, sell only data that others use to identify potential drug targets.
Shares in Human Genome and Millennium have soared this year, while Incyte, once the market leader, has fallen, primarily because of the perceived threat from Celera, which has deep pockets and a similar business model.
"The human genome is going to be sequenced, with absolute certainty, within the next two years," said Dr. Eric Lander, director of the federally financed Whitehead/M.I.T. Center for Genomic Research in Cambridge and a founding scientist at Millennium. "The game has moved on. Now it's: How do you add value to the genome?"
 
The Code as a Cure
Perhaps the most obvious way to add value to the genome is to turn genetic discoveries into drugs, but so far Human Genome Sciences is the only company that has done so. The stainless-steel fermentation vats at its 80,000-square-foot manufacturing plant here in Rockville would be a common site at a traditional biotechnology company, like Amgen or Genentech, but they are unique among the genomics players.
These vats produce the proteins that are Human Genome's first two drugs. One, intended to protect blood-forming cells from the toxic effects of chemotherapy, is being tested in women with breast and ovarian cancer. The other is being tested as a wound-healing agent. Both are in the second of three phases of trials typically required of new drugs by the Food and Drug Administration; that means that they are at least two or three years away from the market.
But it is Human Genome's third drug candidate that provides a glimpse of the real promise of genomics. Using a gene injected directly into a diseased area, it prompts the body to grow new blood vessels. The drug is being tested as an alternative to bypass surgery for treating blocked arteries in the heart and limbs.
"At this point, we are the only company to create genomics assets and to use those assets to move drugs into the clinic," said Dr. Haseltine, who did pioneering work in sequencing the genome of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, as a scientist at Harvard's Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
But these three drugs, and three others that Human Genome hopes to begin testing next year, are only the tip of a very large iceberg. Dr. Haseltine said the company has discovered -- and, more importantly, filed patents on -- a vast data base of genes.
"Any company that wants to be in the business of using genes, proteins or antibodies as drugs has a very high probability of running afoul of our patents," Dr. Haseltine said. "From a commercial point of view, they are severely constrained -- and far more than they realize."
Some drug industry executives dismiss this is as self-promotion, though as Human Genome's patents begin to be published, it is clear that the company is assembling an arsenal of intellectual property.
Still, Human Genome is itself constrained by the terms of a deal it struck in 1993 with SmithKline Beecham P.L.C., the British pharmaceuticals giant. For $125 million, then the largest biotechnology deal ever, SmithKline obtained exclusive rights to use Human Genome's gene discoveries to produce so-called small-molecule drugs, the kind that can be taken in pill form. The agreement expires in June 2001.
The deal left Human Genome free to develop drugs based on proteins -- the easiest kind to take quickly to the clinic. But such drugs are commercially problematic, because they must be injected, and few patients want to take a shot if a pill is available. The company can also develop gene therapies, like its heart drug. But gene therapy has yet to produce an approved drug for anyone.
Nonetheless, Dr. Haseltine said the SmithKline deal was worthwhile, because it gave Human Genome the resources to grab a big lead in genomics. And when it expires, he will be free to strike new partnerships based on the same data base of genes. "Two years from now, we have a big opportunity to remonetize our asset and still have plenty of intellectual property to ourselves," he said.
 
Partners in the Marketplace
For now, however, the undisputed champion of deal making is Millennium, which has raked in over $1 billion in financing from partners like Roche Holding A.G., Eli Lilly & Company, Monsanto and Bayer A.G.
The arrangements are exclusive only for specific diseases (or, in Monsanto's case, for use in agricultural products), so Millennium remains free to pursue its own small-molecule drugs. It has also created subsidiaries for biotechnology drugs and for predictive medicine, like tests to identify genetic conditions showing a predisposition to diseases or adverse drug reactions.
Millennium's executives don't claim a lock on the intellectual property of the human genome, but their deal-making shows the value that drug makers see in the company's work.
A year ago, for example, Bayer agreed to pay Millennium up to $460 million over five years for 225 of what the industry calls validated genetic targets -- that is, genes plus the accompanying biological data to show their relevance in areas like cardiovascular disease, cancer, osteoporosis, pain, liver fibrosis and viral infections. Targets that Bayer doesn't choose for drug development revert to Millennium.
"We did a huge search before we went with Millennium," said Wolfgang Hartwig, Bayer's executive vice president of pharmaceutical research. He said Bayer was attracted to Millennium's continual refreshing of its technology and to its freedom from the encumbrances of exclusive deals.
Millennium sprawls around Cambridge in leased space, most of it near the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In its early days, the company made much of its connection to Dr. Lander and M.I.T.'s genome center. But today, Dr. Lander's role is more clearly advisory. The personalities who define the company are those of its chief executive, Mark Levin, a soft-spoken former venture capitalist, and his head deal maker and chief business officer, Steven H. Holtzman, a Rhodes Scholar with a degree in philosophy.
Mr. Levin tends not to make big claims, but he is building a big company, drawing on experiences early in his career at Genentech, the biotechnology pioneer, where he worked in process engineering in the mid-1980's.
"Genentech put in place the largest molecular biology lab in the world at the time," he said. "We've gone out and put together the largest critical mass in biotech today."
Later this year, Roche is expected to seek permission to begin trials of an anti-obesity drug developed from a genetic target supplied by Millennium. Becton Dickinson & Company in Franklin Lakes, N.J., will soon offer a melanoma test using technology from Millennium's predictive medicine unit.
But for all the depth and breadth of its science and technology, Millennium is conspicuously lacking a drug of its own in clinical trials.
"We're developing genes and targets and leads," Mr. Levin said. "By the end of 1999, going into 2000, you will see us make additional acquisitions, and these acquisitions will take us into the clinic."
Analysts note that while Millennium has the cash and high-value shares to acquire a drug -- and many struggling biotech companies have drugs for sale -- the best drug prospects attract multiple bids, and there are many far larger companies out shopping.
 
The Knowledge Merchants
If Millennium and Human Genome aim to be the next Genentech and Amgen, Incyte and Celera have a different role model in mind: Bloomberg L.P. Just as Bloomberg sells information to the securities industry but isn't in the brokerage business, these companies sell data bases of genetic information to drug companies but never intend to produce drugs.
Incyte is based in Palo Alto, Calif., deep in Silicon Valley, and it is no coincidence that the heart of its headquarters is a vast, glass-enclosed room full of powerful computers. "At the end of the day, it's the information that matters," said Randy Scott, the president and chief scientific officer. "We are all about the application of Moore's Law to biology," he said -- a reference to the observation that computer processing power doubles every 18 months. Applying that exponential growth to genomics should produce similar gains for drug discovery, Dr. Scott said.
Until recently, Incyte had something unique among genomics companies: operating income from sales of its products. Instead of signing huge deals to bankroll its own drug programs, Incyte sold subscriptions to Lifeseq, its genomic data base. Some 25 companies subscribed, including most of the leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology concerns, and Incyte showed steady earnings growth without big outlays on drug development.
But the creation last year of Celera -- cash-rich and in no hurry to show a profit -- put Incyte on the spot. While Incyte's data base offered gene fragments that point the way to full-length genes, Celera said it would provide whole genomes at a competitive price.
At the same time, the Government's Human Genome Project, now on an accelerated timetable, was placing thousands of genes in the public domain. And companies like Pangea Systems of Oakland, Calif., were supplying software tools to analyze this data, at a fraction of the cost of a Lifeseq subscription.
Facing a classic squeeze, Incyte management moved rapidly to improve its product, adding data from the Government's work, cutting the price and introducing new data bases. But the moves cost money, and as the company began reporting losses, investors fled, cutting the share price in half.
"I've been hearing this story -- that Lifeseq's dead, it's all in the public domain -- and maybe we even started to believe it ourselves," said Roy Whitfield, Incyte's chairman and chief executive. "But it's just not true." No customer has failed to renew its subscription, he said, and he predicted that profits -- and investors -- would return in the second half of next year.
Celera is the spoiler in genomics, or intends to be. The company plans to sequence the entire human genome and offer the data to subscribers. Other genomes of interest to scientists -- like that of drosophila, a fruit fly used in many experiments -- will be offered in a similar fashion. Dr. Venter's critics say Celera's hurry-up human genome will be full of gaps and errors, but the company has attracted three blue-chip subscribers: Novartis A.G., Amgen and Pharmacia & Upjohn.
As a sibling of PE Biosystems Group, also part of the PE Corporation, Celera received first access to PE Biosystems' latest automated gene-sequencing machines. (The two companies were created this spring in a reorganization of the old Perkin-Elmer Corporation.) Celera now has 300 of these $300,000 devices, some arrayed in neat rows, some lining the hallways still in their wooden shipping crates, some piled in elevators. The largest public genome center, Dr. Lander's lab at M.I.T. has 120 such machines, and most genomics companies have just a handful.
Combining the powerful equipment with an army of robots and vast amounts of computing power makes it practical and cost-effective to sequence whole genomes, Dr. Venter said.
The idea is that subscribers will pay Celera for partial genetic information as it becomes available, just as they have paid Incyte -- but with the kicker that the company will ultimately supply complete genomes for many organisms. Companies can use this information royalty-free, except where it involves a gene sequence patented by Celera. Dr. Venter said he ultimately expects a mixture of revenues -- from subscriptions, royalties on drug sales and even individual researchers paying to use the Celera Web site.
"They say I'm going to be the Bill Gates of biology; I'm not sure that's meant to be flattering," he said. Still, "the upside to this business is very, very large, and different from what anybody else is doing."
 
Many Eager Competitors
Wall Street loves to anoint winners, and given the impact of capital flow, these prophecies can become self-fulfilling. Despite talk that Celera or Human Genome may achieve a Microsoft-like dominance of biological information, many smaller companies are also pursuing opportunities.
The first real product of genomics was a diagnostic kit developed by Myriad Genetics Inc. of Salt Lake City, drawing on its discovery of two genes responsible for hereditary breast cancer. Genome Therapeutics Inc. of Waltham, Mass., has built a subscription business based on bacterial genomes. Genset S.A. of Paris has signed up two partners for what is called pharmacogenomics -- the enterprise of applying genetic data to existing drugs to screen out people more likely to have side effects.
There are many more, and their continued proliferation suggests that genomics remains a fertile field.
"The current effort is rather like building the periodic table," said Dr. Collins, head of the Government's project, comparing the work to the fundamental plow work of chemistry.
"The real challenge of genomics -- the real fun, the real payoff -- is being able to take the periodic table and figure out how it works," he said. "All of that will be poorly understood and will be grist for research for decades to come."
 
A Vitalizing Gene, Straight to the Heart
Born with a genetic defect that caused his body to overproduce cholesterol, the Rev. Charles Wilson started having heart problems when he was 27. Over the next 30 years, he suffered a heart attack and had surgery many times. But by last summer, the blood supply to his heart was so reduced by atherosclerosis that he could barely get out of bed without severe chest pains.
"My doctor said to me, 'Charles, there's nothing else we can do; you've just got to sit still until technology catches up with you,' " said Mr. Wilson, 57, a Presbyterian minister who lives in Charlotte, N.C.
One day, though, he read a newspaper article about research on coronary gene therapy.
"I went looking on the Internet to find the actual report," Mr. Wilson said. "From that, I found the name of the doctor and the hospital."
He got in touch with Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, chief of cardiovascular research at St. Elizabeth's Medical Center of Boston, and ultimately entered one of the first clinical trials of a drug developed through genomics.
Physicians in Boston made an incision in Mr. Wilson's chest and injected -- directly into his heart -- a gene that prompts the creation of new blood vessels. (Subsequently, the gene has been administered through a catheter.)
Although his recovery was slow at first, Mr. Wilson gradually gained strength.
"On the 42d day, as I was walking through the mall with my wife, when we had walked about a quarter-mile, I said, 'Honey, I haven't had any discomfort today,' " he said. "From that point on, I've been able to walk increasingly longer distances, faster and without pain." He now walks a mile and a half a day.
The gene he receives, VEGF-2, is being tested as a drug by Human Genome Sciences Inc. and is a product of Vascular Genetics Inc., which is a joint venture of Human Genome, Dr. Isner, St. Elizabeth's and Cato Holdings, a contract research organization. The drug is at least three to five years away from the market.
Although Mr. Wilson still has scar tissue and will have to take a variety of medications for the rest of his life, electronic scans of his heart show that it has grown new blood vessels in about 60 percent of the area that was previously blocked. LAWRENCE M. FISHER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Two picture captions last Sunday with an article about competition in the genomics industry reversed the photographers' credits. The picture of Dr. J. Craig Venter, founder of Celera Genomics Group, was by Marty Katz for The New York Times; the picture of three executives of Millenium Pharmaceuticals was by Rick Friedman for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Charles Wilson received a genetic treatment in a clinical trial. (Donna Bise for The New York Times); Two companies working to make profitable use of the decoding of human DNA are Millennium Pharmaceuticals, led by, from left above (Marty Katz for The New York Times), Steven H. Holtzman, Mark Levin and Dr. Eric Lander, and Celera Genomics Group, whose founder is Dr. J. Craig Venter, at right. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: Rival Strategies
The leading genomics companies have contrasting business models: two aim to develop drugs; two aim to sell data about genes.
 
MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS
HEADQUARTERS: Cambridge, Mass.
BUSINESS: Provides genetic targets for partners' drug discovery and agricultural programs. Develops small-molecule drugs; proteins and antibodies; gene-based diagnostic tests.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Partnerships with Bayer, Monsanto, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, American Home Products, Astra and Roche.
MARKET CAPITALIZATION: $2.15 billion
'98 REVENUE: $134 million
'98 OPERATING INCOME: -$8 million
 
INCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS
HEADQUARTERS: Palo Alto, Calif.
BUSINESS: Provides data bases of gene sequences and related analytical software by subscription. Manufactures and sells drug discovery tools.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS: More than 25 major pharmaceutical and biotechnology subscribers. First genome company to report earnings from operations.
MARKET CAPITALIZATION: $713 million
'98 REVENUE: $135 million
'98 OPERATING INCOME: $12 million
 
HUMAN GENOME SCIENCES
HEADQUARTERS: Rockville, Md.
BUSINESS: Provides genetic targets for partners' drug discovery programs. Develops proprietary proteins, antibodies and gene therapy drugs.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Established first major genomic partnership, receiving $125 million from SmithKline Beecham. Has three drugs in clinical trials.
MARKET CAPITALIZATION: $1.55 billion
'98 REVENUE: $30 million
'98 OPERATING INCOME: -$32 million
 
CELERA GENOMICS GROUP
HEADQUARTERS: Rockville, Md.
BUSINESS: Provides genomic and biological information. Plans to offer complete genomes of human and other species, plus analytical software.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Partnerships with Novartis, Pharmacia & Upjohn and Amgen.
MARKET CAPITALIZATION: $650 million
'98 REVENUE*: $6 million
'98 OPERATING INCOME*: -$16 million
 
*Six months ended Dec. 31.
 
(The New York Times/Illustration by Chris Gould)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CRA (NYSE) (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CELERA GENOMICS GROUP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY AND GENETIC ENGINEERING GENES & CHROMOSOMES (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GENOMICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); DNA (89%); PATENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (77%); BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); CANCER (71%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (66%); HEART DISEASE (66%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



638 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31; Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Common Ground?

BYLINE: By Mark Silk; Mark Silk is director of the Center for the Study of Religion in Public Life at Trinity College, Hartford, and editor of the magazine Religion in the News.

 BODY:

URBAN EXODUS
Why the Jews Left Boston and the Catholics Stayed.
By Gerald Gamm.
Illustrated. 384 pp. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press. $39.95. 
 It is popularly believed that the American urban crisis began after World War II, when blacks poured into the industrial cities of the North, putting pressure on stable neighborhoods and creating white flight to the suburbs. Not that the whites all behaved the same. Roman Catholics tended to stay and resist the black incursion. Jews, though more tolerant, picked up and left.
Nowhere has this story been told more often, or with more hand wringing, than in Boston. Through the middle decades of the century, tens of thousands of Jews and Irish Catholics lived in parallel neighborhoods in the city's large Roxbury-Dorchester-Mattapan area, the Jews on a line running south along Blue Hill Avenue, the Catholics to the east. By the 1970's, all of the Jewish neighborhoods but only some of the Catholic ones had been taken over by African-Americans. Previous accounts, both journalistic and scholarly, have held that the Jews left as a result of shortsighted communal decisions to pull up institutional stakes, and a mortgage program that assisted black home ownership in Jewish neighborhoods. The Catholics stayed because the mortgage program wasn't targeted at their neighborhoods and because they were poorer and less mobile.
"Urban Exodus" says it ain't so. Gerald Gamm, a University of Rochester political scientist, uses census data, parish and synagogue records and contemporary newspaper accounts to demonstrate both that Boston's urban crisis began decades before race was a factor, and that Jews and Catholics reacted differently because their religious life was governed by entirely different rules. For Roman Catholicism, the key was the territorial parish, which grouped communicants into communities by telling them where they had to worship. All decisions, starting with where to build the parish church and which priest to put there, came down through the archiepiscopal hierarchy. Synagogues sprang up according to the desires and means of groups of laymen. The authority to build, to move, to hire and fire rabbis, belonged to individual congregations, which competed for members.
Roxbury's and Dorchester's landmark synagogues were all built by the 1920's, by which time middle-class Jews were already moving into the suburban communities of Brookline and Newton. These synagogues found themselves in increasingly dire straits, not because there were fewer congregants but because the working-class Jewish population lacked the wherewithal to support them. Gamm shows that most major Jewish institutions left Boston's Jewish neighborhoods ahead of the population because in a religious free market their survival depended on it.
But Catholic institutions were anchored in a religious system that could and did resist market forces. The church proved capable of keeping middle-class Catholics in Dorchester long after middle-class Jews had left, and in parishes that ultimately yielded to racial succession the church made the decision to stay and support the poor, the nonwhite and the non-Catholic. Nor, Gamm decisively demonstrates, was the notorious loan program organized by the Boston Banks Urban Renewal Group in 1968 targeted at Jewish neighborhoods. Rather, blacks followed in the wake of departing Jews because Catholics, tied to their parishes, tended to stay put.
Throughout, the prevailing winds were economic. Roxbury and Dorchester began as streetcar suburbs in the late 19th century and became working-class districts only after the automobile enabled the bourgeoisie to live beyond the city limits. As urbanologists have increasingly recognized, the crisis of the American city began when cities began to be places where poor people predominated.
To this class analysis of urban change Gamm adds the significant dimension of religion. His Boston tale is also cautionary for those looking to religious institutions for help in solving the urban crisis today. These institutions march to their own beat, and that may bode well or ill for the place they happen to be located at any point in time. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CITY LIFE (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); CENSUS (67%); WORLD WAR II (57%); 

PERSON: GERALD GAMM (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



639 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 27; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: OPINION;
The Side Effects of Charter Schools

BYLINE: By MARC F. BERNSTEIN; The author is superintendent of the Bellmore-Merrick Central High School District.

 BODY:
Two recent announcements regarding charter schools have moved this controversial education experiment to center stage. First, the State University of New York has approved the state's first set of charter schools. Second, fourth grade reading and writing test scores show no difference between New York public and nonpublic schoolchildren. Some nonpublic schools scored higher than neighboring public schools, while others scored worse.
If the administrators and teachers are bright, talented and dedicated, and if parents are supportive of their children and the school, these charter schools will make a difference in the lives of children in the short term. Whether the schools will be able to sustain high levels of academic success, whether they will be able to make a difference for the children who remain in the community's public schools and whether charter schools will be good for our country are larger questions that persist. Preliminary research on the second and third issues is not promising. 
 Legislation frees charter schools from most state mandates to which public schools are subject; they are not obliged to conform to teachers' union work rules and hours. Such freedom, charter schools proponents contend, will engender a more creative approach to teaching and learning. It will also help the schools serve as models of educational reform strategies, be more reflective of parent and community priorities, and more cost-effective to operate, proponents say.
But studies show that these benefits have not accrued to students attending existing charter schools nor to those in nearby public schools. Moreover, charter school proponents neglect to address two concerns. The public money used to fund charter schools comes from the budgets of the public school districts. And charter schools tend to be more homogeneous than most public schools in terms of ethnicity, religion and race, thus balkanizing our population at an extremely young age when they are most open to dealing with differences among people.
A U.C.L.A. study of 10 California school districts in which charter schools have been operating for the past several years concluded that there was no evidence that charter schools achieved more with less money. A similar study of charter schools in Michigan called "Little Difference Is Found in Charter Public Schools" carried this opening sentence: "Charter schools may not be living up to their promise of educational innovation and more effective use of public monies according to a report that will be presented to the State Board of Education this week." And now, in New York, academic results do not differ between nonpublic schools (the precursors of charters) and existing public schools.
Perhaps of greater significance than the ability of charter schools to raise test scores, to use public money more effectively than other public schools and to pressure neighboring schools to improve are the long-term societal consequences. Reduced financing for public schools will result in poorer academic results and thus build the case that charter schools (or voucher programs) are the only recourse for failing public schools.
The money to operate the charter schools comes from the funds for public schools, whether public schools draw checks to the charters, the state forwards a portion of what public schools would have received to charter schools or the state's discretionary resources that could have been used to improve the public schools are slated for charter schools. Regardless of the Legislature's phraseology, the result is that public schools have fewer dollars to improve the education they provide.
Can separate be equal? This question, we thought, was answered by the United States Supreme Court in its decision on Brown v. Board of Education in 1954, when racially segregated schools prevailed in parts of our country by the design of governmental entities. Now, nearly 50 years later, we have a Government-endorsed policy that might result in that same situation.
Though most states' charter school laws attempt to address potential racial imbalance, charter schools are more segregated. An evaluation of the Minnesota charter schools conducted by the University of Minnesota found that "charter schools in that state typically enroll greater numbers of ethnic minorities than their host districts do." And in Michigan, the segregation pattern for charter schools had white children opting out of local public schools. "The percentage of minorities in charters is declining as fewer parents open schools and more companies open them in neighborhoods of their choosing," the Michigan study said. "The proportion of minorities in the schools has declined nearly 25 percent since 1997." Two other detailed studies -- one in North Carolina and the other in Arizona -- concluded that their states' charter schools have become increasingly segregated.
How unfortunate it would be for our nation's communities to become more fractionalized than they already are. America's public schools have as one of their primary goals to acculturate, sensitize and civilize our children to prepare them for their future roles in a democratic society. Will this goal be seriously compromised because of charter schools? Rene Descartes wrote that the chief cause of human error is to be found in the prejudices acquired during childhood.
Though charter schools have yet to prove their academic worth, their numbers are increasing across the country. They give people choice regarding their children's education and they "level the playing field" between higher and lower economic classes by offering an alternative to the public schools. Charter schools give us a warm feeling that government is doing something to fix our failing schools by turning the capitalistic engine of competition loose upon the schools.
But in actuality, charter schools are denying public schools financial resources they need to serve an increasingly disparate student population. And our communities will be further divided along racial, religious and ethnic lines as children attend schools of their choice, often with those of similar backgrounds. This cannot be good for America. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELLMORE (NY); MERRICK (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS; RESEARCH CHARTER SCHOOLS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); ETHNICITY (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, MARC F

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1999



640 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Aid for States

 BODY:

To the Editor:
An Aug. 26 Business Day article highlights the challenges facing states in the next phase of welfare reform. As you report, although welfare rolls are dropping around the country, those leaving the rolls still face barriers to economic self-sufficiency. 
 One pending Federal legislative proposal, the Building Opportunities Bonus, would give states a financial incentive to take on these barriers. With a minimal Federal investment of $1 billion over five years, the legislation encourages state investment by rewarding the top 10 states that provide training for jobs that pay a sustainable wage, provide access to quality child care, and address domestic violence in the lives of poor families. Without such programs, welfare reform won't get women out of poverty.
 
YOLANDA WU
New York, Aug. 27, 1999
 
The writer is a staff lawyer, NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NOW LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATION FUND NOW LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (83%); NOW LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NOW LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATION FUND NOW LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (83%); NOW LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WOMEN INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); FAMILY (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (67%); CHILD CARE (52%); 

PERSON: WU, YOLANDA YOLANDA WU NEW YORK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



641 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
A News Magazine War in Brazil

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
It boasts of having the largest circulation of any weekly news magazine outside the United States and is the flagship of Latin America's biggest publishing group. Yet Veja magazine finds itself involved in a full-blown circulation war, forced to fend off not one but two rivals intent on breaching its seemingly impregnable dominance of the huge Brazilian market.
More than just bragging rights are at stake: advertisers spend more than $2 billion annually in Brazilian newspapers and magazines, and no consumers are more coveted here than the affluent readers of news magazines. And despite a lingering recession that included a 40 percent currency devaluation in January, overall circulations among news weekly are rising as disposable incomes have grown and the illiteracy rate has been cut nearly in half since 1980, falling to less than 18 percent. 
 Analysts see a market with plenty of growth ahead. And while Veja (pronounced VAY-zha) is dealing from a position of strength, it cannot discount the competitive might of its challengers -- particularly Epoca, which was introduced in May 1998 and is being financed by the Editora Globo conglomerate, the owner of Brazil's leading television network and Rio de Janeiro's biggest newspaper.
The third protagonist is IstoE, which was founded in 1976 and is published by a company called Editora Tres. But contrary to the many predictions that the entry of Epoca into the market would take readers away from the two established news magazines, all three appear to be benefiting from the public interest that the competitive frenzy has generated. Total news magazine circulation is up by some 20 percent, to 1.75 million copies a week, since Epoca hit the newsstands last year.
Still, Veja (a word whose popular usage translates to "look") is clearly dealing from a position of strength. Founded in 1968, it is the flagship of Editora Abril, which publishes nearly 200 other magazines, 8 of which rank among the 10 most widely sold titles in this nation of 165 million people, and has weathered a military dictatorship, six different currencies and bouts of inflation as high as 2,500 percent a year to build a circulation that in its best weeks exceeds 1.2 million.
"The competition is fierce, but there is a big market out there and Veja still sells twice as much as our competitors combined," Roberto Civita, chairman and chief executive of the publishing group, said in an interview at the company's headquarters here. "If you are the No. 1 player in a market like this," he added, "you should look where you are going and not worry about the other guy gaining on you."
Epoca's executives sound equally sanguine. "The potential of the market in Brazil has barely been tapped," said Aluizio Maranhao, deputy editor of Epoca (which means "epoch.") "The United States and Europe are mature markets, but the circulation of magazines in Brazil is still at a low level. And if inflation and the illiteracy rate continue to drop, there are great prospects for the growth of the media in general."
With an eye on that growing pie, the magazines are engaged in an old-fashioned, bare-knuckles battle, the likes of which have rarely been seen in publishing circles here.
Domingo Alzugaray, publisher and editor of IstoE (Portuguese for "i.e." or "that is") said that Globo had first tried to buy his magazine rather than start its own. But when negotiations broke down, he said, an executive from the rival company warned him "you'd better get ready, because we are going to roll over you with a bulldozer."
Marcos Dvoskin, publisher of Epoca, confirmed that talks had taken place but added that since he did not take part in them, he could not comment about any threats to Mr. Alzugaray's magazine. He did make clear, though, that Epoca's immediate goal was to pass IstoE and then challenge Veja head on. Lately, Epoca and IstoE have had average weekly circulations between 300,000 and 325,000.
"Our objective is to become second as quickly as possible," Mr. Dvoskin said. "Then, after we are turning a nice profit, we will fight to be first." For readers, the competition has been a boon, with Epoca offering various sorts of discounts -- its cover price is 3.50 reais (about $1.85), compared with 4 reais ($2.10) for both Veja and IstoE. And all three magazines are fighting to get to newsstands on Saturday night instead of on Monday, as is the custom in most other countries. "That's part of the reason for our success," Mr. Civita said. "We scoop the Sunday papers all the time."
But each of the magazines has a strikingly different format, meaning that, as Mr. Civita noted, "the overlap in readership is very small." Epoca features shorter stories and more graphics than its rivals.
IstoE, on the other hand, has cultivated a reputation for being both cheeky and nationalistic since its founding 23 years ago by a group of reporters and editors who had begun at Abril. "During the dictatorship, we were more negative and left wing," Mr. Alzugaray acknowledged, referring to the right-wing military regime that lasted from 1964 to 1985. "But we have changed that. Today we are a magazine that believes in Brazil."
Veja, which aims for comprehensive and aggressive coverage of national and international events, has a bigger staff and glossier look than its rivals, which have translated into a significant advertising edge. It charges $40,000 for a full-page color ad, and one recent issue had 80 ad pages, compared with 52 for IstoE, which charges $19,000 for a full-page color ad, and 26 pages for Epoca, which charges $16,000.
"If I have a client who is going to chose only one magazine in which to advertise, that magazine is going to be Veja," said Mauro Salles, director of the Salles/DMB&B ad agency here. "It is only if you have money for a second that you see a fight between IstoE and Epoca."
The Brazilian Congress is currently considering legislation that would allow foreign companies to take a 30 percent stake in media enterprises here. Mr. Civita of Abril said that foreign media companies interested in establishing a presence in Brazil once the new law is passed "have all already come down and are looking around and positioning themselves."
Stock and media analysts here say that IstoE, lacking the treasure chests of its two competitors, is the most likely candidate for some sort of partnership.
"I remember that when IstoE started, there was a lot of talk about whether there was space for a second magazine," Mr. Salles said. "Now the question is whether there is room for three. But these people are all professionals, so this is a competition that doesn't necessarily have to produce a victim."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roberto Civita, left, chairman of Editora Abril, confers with two editors of Veja magazine. (Paulo Fridman for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Photos: "Weekly Rivals"
Veja, despite being the most popular weekly news magazine in Brazil, finds itself in fierce competition for readers and advertising dollars in the country's growing market.
 
VEJA
Founded -- 1968
Owner -- Editora Abril S.A.
1998 Circulation -- 1,148,000
Comprehensive and aggressive, with 30 years of experience, tradition and prestige to its name.
 
ISTOE
Founded -- 1976
Owner -- Editora Tres S.A.
1998 Circulation -- 323,000
Less formal in tone than Veja, with a reputation for being cheeky and nationalistic.
 
EPOCA
Founded -- 1998
Owner -- Editora Globo S.A.
1998 Circulation -- 285,000
Relies on shorter, crisper stories with more graphics and photos than its competitors do.
 
Circulation figures are based on weekly averages.
 
(Source: The companies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (72%); 

COMPANY: VEJA (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA ABRIL; EPOCA (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA GLOBO; ISTOE (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA TRES GLOBO PLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VEJA (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA ABRIL; EPOCA (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA GLOBO; ISTOE (BRAZILIAN MAGAZINE); EDITORA TRES

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (72%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES PUBLISHING (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); LITERACY RATES (75%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); CURRENCIES (69%); DEVALUATION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (56%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (54%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY ROBERTO CIVITA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



642 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: HELP WANTED;
Newspapers Seek Cyberp artners To Fight On-Line Ads

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Mitchell Bernstein did his bit to chip away at the profits of the newspaper industry this year. Not that he meant to. The 26-year-old advertising copywriter was simply looking for a job with an Internet company in the most logical way -- on the Internet. He posted resumes on Monster.com and Hotjobs.com and scoured the job boards of the New York New Media Association, which eventually matched him with Organic, an Internet services firm in Manhattan.
"I looked in newspapers," Mr. Bernstein said last week, "but there are no jobs that I'm looking for in newspapers." 
 Those are chilling words for newspaper publishers, whose most lucrative revenue source is usually those pages of agate type, pages that generations of job seekers, home buyers and car buyers have torn out and punctuated with penciled circles. On-line journalism has caused concern about the industry's standards, but on-line classified advertising threatens newspapers' profits and dominance in an $18 billion market.
That revenue currently represents an average of 43 percent of the advertising revenue of the largest-circulation newspapers -- and more than a third of their total revenues -- according to the figures of the Inland Press Association, a trade association.
The Internet is challenging a franchise that flourished with the post-World War II buying boom, when newspapers' role as a local marketplace fattened their daily editions. It has continued despite cyclical advertising recessions and intermittent shocks, like Wal-Mart's suffocation of small businesses, whose advertising died with them.
Classifieds, in particular, brought in a higher and higher percentage of newspaper advertising dollars. The figures of the Newspaper Association of America show classifieds represented 18 percent of advertisers' newspaper spending in 1950; 26 percent in 1975; and 41.5 percent last year.
Now, the question is how much revenue newspapers are going to lose to the hundreds of Internet competitors, and how quickly. While the weighty pile of printed classifieds is not fading away any time soon, Michael J. Beebe, a media analyst for Goldman, Sachs, said flatly, "There is going to be an erosion in revenue and profitability" in the old-fashioned newspaper classifieds.
"That's not to say that some company might not discover the right model and build an economically viable and perhaps value-added business, using the Internet to its advantage," Mr. Beebe added. "They're all searching for it."
For the past four years, through investments in on-line ventures like AdOne L.L.C., Careerpath.com, Classified Ventures and Careers.wsj.com, newspaper companies have scrambled to compete in the fast-growing world of on-line classifieds.
Their competitors come from all over -- an employment-advertising agency like Omnicom's Bernard Hodes Agency, which also happened to be the single largest purchaser of newspaper advertising ($572 million in 1997, according to Editor & Publisher) and operates Careermosaic.com. There is also TMP Worldwide. This marketing services and executive search firm is a major yellow pages advertiser whose Monster.com Web site is the most-visited in the on-line help-wanted world.
There are also technology giants like the Microsoft Corporation, which runs Carpoint.com; the National Association of Realtors, which runs Realtor.com, and portals like Yahoo Inc. and America Online, which offer free classifieds. The list gets longer daily. Less than two weeks ago, the CBS Corporation took a 38 percent share of Jobs.com, a Texas company, in return for a pledge of $62 million in promotion and other considerations.
The geometric expansion of on-line competitors coincided with a disturbing dip in newspapers' help-wanted advertising during portions of the past 18 months in at least five markets -- San Jose, Dallas, Boston, New York and Los Angeles.
Newspaper executives and industry analysts are cautious about attributing all the drop to the on-line predators. A full-employment economy, like the United States has enjoyed for more than two years, reduces the need for employers to place ads.
All that said, it is clear that the ads for job-seekers like Mr. Bernstein -- not to mention technology managers, Web designers, software developers and computer engineers -- are disappearing from print newspapers. While paper is portable, it cannot match the Internet for fine-grained search capabilities.
Robert W. Decherd, the chairman and chief executive of the Belo Corporation, is hardly panicking. At Belo's flagship, The Dallas Morning News, he said, "It's not as if classifieds have fallen off a cliff."
But, he added, "There is one major category that is temporarily disabled" -- employment ads.
And the drop in help-wanted ads, in some markets, more than offset gains in auto and real-estate ads.After two years of robust growth, The Dallas Morning News's help-wanted declines pulled its overall classified advertising linage down 3.1 percent in 1998. It is down another 3.6 percent through the first half of 1999.
Last year, The San Jose Mercury News, owned by Knight Ridder, became a poster child for the trend. Classified advertising revenue at Silicon Valley's hometown newspaper dropped 9.2 percent in 1998, compared to the previous year. A turnaround in help-wanted advertising starting this spring reduced that decline to 2.4 percent through July.
At The Boston Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Company, overall classified ad linage inched up 0.5 percent in the last quarter, compared to the second quarter of 1998. But volume dipped in each of the three previous quarters.
Overall classified linage at The New York Times was up 2.7 percent in 1998 and is down 1.4 percent through July, according to Janet L. Robinson, the newspaper's president. The Times, however, drew 25 percent of its total advertising revenue from classifieds in 1998, a proportion well below the industry average.
At The Los Angeles Times, the flagship newspaper of the Times Mirror Company, help-wanted advertising volume declined in 1998, but it was offset by real estate and auto gains in every period except the first quarter. Overall, classifieds were up 7.1 percent through the first half of 1999.
All these markets have a high concentration of high-technology employers, who are spending less and less on newspapers. Companies like the Intel Corporation are now on many on-line jobs boards, often limiting themselves to a few print ads directing readers to their own Web site listings.
Jeffrey C. Taylor, the founder of The Monster Board and currently an executive vice president at TMP, is more than happy to take some of the blame. "A whole industry developed under the umbrella they were standing under and they didn't see it," Mr. Taylor said of newspapers. The people abandoning newspapers are "your information-age workers."
"They have a computer on the desk," he said. "They look for a job at work."
Few analysts will put a hard figure on what Monster, Hotjobs.com and other sites will cost newspapers. One that does, Forrester Research, predicts a rough future for newspapers. Competitive pressures to lower rates, the loss of existing revenues and the failure to capture new business will cost newspapers $4.7 billion by 2003, Forrester estimates.
This estimate is widely disputed. "It's nowhere near as severe as they make it out to be," said P. Anthony Ridder, the chairman and chief executive of Knight Ridder. "The big strength that newspapers have is the relationship with advertisers in the places where they do business."
But Mr. Taylor of Monster.com scoffs at this, saying that most newspaper classifieds come through advertising agencies, not local employers.
While it is clear that on-line sites -- including newspapers' own -- can cost newspapers money, it is unclear how to make money on line. Monster.com is one of the rare Web sites to turn a profit. Analysts expect it to generate about $120 million in 1999 revenues.
Peter M. Zollman, the principal of Advanced Interactive Media Group L.L.C. of Altamont Springs, Fla., said: "There will be significant growth in on-line classified advertising. Newspapers have a superb opportunity to capture a tremendous amount of that -- or to throw it all away -- depending on how they respond."
To date, two major competing models have emerged. Both involve pooling help-wanted, real-estate and automobile advertising, but the structures are distinct. One establishes territories and allows newspapers to protect most revenues from their local markets; the other treats the whole country as a single market.
The territorial model was adopted by the New York Times Company,the Times Mirror Company, the Tribune Company and the Washington Post Company, which jointly founded Careerpath.com. They also are backers of Classified Ventures, a similar company whose newspaper participants also include the Gannett Company and Central Newspapers Inc. The idea is to sell advertisers -- car dealers, real estate agents, employers, agencies -- a package, offering on-line classifieds for free or a nominal fee to those buying print ads. Some analysts question the wisdom of a cooperative model they believe is built on defensive fiefs, questioning how quickly it can respond to the marketplace.
Mr. Decherd of Belo backs the approach of AdOne, which was acquired in January by a consortium of media companies. The initial investors include Advance Publications Inc. and the Hearst Corporation. In July, more media companies, including Belo and Pulitzer Inc., joined AdOne and its Classifiedwarehouse.com site.
Asked why he preferred AdOne, Mr. Decherd said: "Essentially, because it's boundaryless. There is no trying to carve up territories. We're trying to create a national platform that will compete head-to-head" with the new on-line firms.
In addition, analysts and newspaper executives are keenly aware that making money on the Internet may require not just advertising jobs or purchases but making them happen and taking a share of these on-line transactions.
Whichever model survives, the current newspaper-backed sites, like their competitors', will offer more than listings. David Israel, the president of Classified Ventures, said, "We're in the business of trying to create really big, attractive marketplaces." For instance, "for a car -- people want to know all about pricing, reviews, financing rates, about decisions about leasing versus buying."
The value-added concept has been embraced by many on-line sites. Homestore.com Inc., the parent of Realtor.com, has signed a multiyear marketing deal with Norwest Mortgage Inc., which is owned by Wells Fargo & Company. The realtors' site has its own newspaper ally; on Thursday it announced it would provide on-line listings to Homes.wsj.com, a new site on The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition, which is owned by Dow Jones & Company.
Most newspaper executives tend to bank on their local roots. John W. Sweeney, associate publisher and president of Hearst's Houston Chronicle, said the essence of classifieds is "local companies offering local people jobs, local dealers offering them cars."
"Ultimately," he said, "newspapers should be able to win."
Still, Mr. Beebe, the Goldman, Sachs analyst, thinks Monster is formidable. "The more employers have jobs there, the more consumers are going to trust the brand." Most analysts believe newspapers have to be willing to sell or give away on-line classifieds that might leach revenue from the printed newspapers.
Ms. Robinson of The New York Times said, "If portions of our business wane, we will see other portions of our business grow dramatically." She added: "The model is changing constantly. The idea is for the newspaper companies to remain as nimble as possible."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (pg. C1)
 
Graph: "Why the Fine Print Matters"
Classified advertising revenue for newspapers has grown substantially over the last two decades and now represents about 40 percent of their overall revenues. But the rise of the Internet is expected to cut into future revenues as classified advertisers increasingly place ads on the Web. Graph tracks the following: four-quarter moving average of classified advertising spending in newspapers, in 1999 dollars (since 1980); four-quarter moving average of classified advertising spending in newspapers as a share of their total revenues (since 1980); and classified advertising revenue both if there were no Internet and assuming the Internet (1994 through a projected 2003). (Sources: Newspaper Association of America; Forrester Research)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); MWW (NYSE) (73%); GS (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (73%); ADONE LLC (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (72%); STATISTICS (72%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY MITCHELL BERNSTEIN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



643 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Turk to Visit U.S.; Focus on Aid and Rights

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Turkey, Aug. 29

 BODY:
Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit of Turkey will visit Washington on Sept. 28 for talks with President Clinton that will probably lead to more American aid for earthquake relief, diplomats said today.
Mr. Clinton is expected to broaden the agenda, however, and to encourage his Turkish counterpart to push ahead with tentative steps he has taken to improve Turkey's human rights record and to build a positive relationship with Greece. 
 In what may be his most difficult effort, Mr. Clinton will also try to persuade Mr. Ecevit to seek a compromise with Greece over the divided island of Cyprus.
"Both sides recognize that there is a need to correct past abuses and broaden democracy in Turkey," said an American diplomat who is helping to plan the meeting. "In important ways, progress in these areas affects how much we can do in other parts of the relationship."
"Cyprus is also a limiting factor," the diplomat said. "We're not directly linking progress on Cyprus with other issues, certainly not with help on earthquake reconstruction, but in the long run a failure to address the realities there is not going to serve Turkey's long-term interest."
Planning for the Washington meeting began before the Aug. 17 earthquake, which killed more than 13,000 people and devastated a large area of northwestern Turkey. The meeting was originally intended to give Mr. Clinton and Mr. Ecevit, who have never met, a chance to discuss regional issues including the Middle East peace effort, policy toward Iraq and American-backed plans to build an oil pipeline from the Caspian Sea across Turkey to the Mediterranean.
Since the quake, the agenda for the meeting has been broadened. Mr. Clinton has promised to listen sympathetically to aid requests like those Mr. Ecevit will probably bring with him to Washington.
"Turkey is our longtime ally, and the people of Turkey are our friends," Mr. Clinton said in a statement on Saturday. "Now, with many of them in desperate need, we must do all we can to help, and we will."
Mr. Ecevit said today that he would ask the United States to guarantee a bond issue to raise money for reconstruction. Such a guarantee would lower the interest rate Turkey would have to pay to buyers.
"If we can issue an earthquake bond backed by the United States, it will be a help in rapidly overcoming the economic problems caused by the earthquake," Mr. Ecevit said after a Cabinet meeting. "I hope the United States will approach this positively."
Although American officials said they were still uncertain what form additional earthquake relief might take, there is considerable support in the Administration for enough generosity to reflect the value that the United States places on its friendship with Turkey.
"The earthquake and our response to it served to highlight the excellent state of relations and the generally positive feelings both sides have about each other," a senior American official said. "It's created a greater awareness of our importance to each other. How far we can build on that to make progress in other areas remains to be seen."
Foreign Minister Ismail Cem of Turkey said his Government was deeply grateful for American aid in earthquake relief, but he suggested that Mr. Ecevit was not prepared to accept guidance from Washington on political issues.
"We are not really happy with the way the U. S. has been dealing with the Cyprus issue, so we'll probably offer our views on that," Mr. Cem said in an interview. "As for human rights, the meetings are going to cover all issues, so that will probably come up, although we don't have it as an agenda point.
"The important thing to understand is that we are not going to Washington for some kind of inspection. It's a meeting between the heads of two friendly Governments at a very interesting and positive moment."
Turkey is a member of NATO and has for decades been a close ally of the United States. Military and security issues have traditionally been at the core of their relationship. American efforts to provide military aid to Turkey, however, have often been blocked or modified by what some influential figures in Washington say is Turkey's poor human rights record and its hostility to Greece.
Since the earthquake, spectacular progress has been made on improving Greek-Turkish relations. In an interview published today in Athens, Foreign Minister George Papandreou of Greece said the outpouring of Greek sympathy for earthquake victims "has created a new psychology" and destroyed "the myth that has been cultivated that Greeks and Turks cannot live side by side."
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright sent Mr. Papandreou a letter praising Greece's attitude and encouraging him to "build on this to continue to improve the bilateral relationship."
Turkey has also made at least tentative progress on human rights issues. In recent days, Parliament has passed two laws that could lead to improvement in the human rights climate here.
One is a "repentance law" that will allow the authorities to offer amnesty to members of the Kurdish guerrilla army that has been waging war against the Turkish state for 15 years. But the law was watered down in Parliament so that it applies only to low-ranking guerrillas who never took part in armed actions.
The second law offers amnesty to thousands of prisoners in Turkish jails. It is expected to lead to the release of several rightist gunmen and, according to the Istanbul newspaper Milliyet, "mafia gangs that have murdered, tortured and kidnapped."
Some Turks who supported the bill hope that it will also benefit intellectuals imprisoned for making speeches and writing articles deemed subversive. A clause inserted by rightist members of Parliament, however, forbids the release of prisoners convicted of "treason or crimes against the state."
That may mean that the law will not affect some of Turkey's best-known prisoners, like the human rights advocate Akin Birdal; Esber Yagmurdereli, a lawyer who is blind, and the Kurdish politician Leyla Zana.
Human rights groups in the United States have urged that all three be released, and they are expected to urge Mr. Clinton to bring up their cases with Mr. Ecevit when they meet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Halil Beser looking at family photos salvaged from the ruins of his apartment in Golcuk yesterday. He lost six relatives in the quake. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); CYPRUS (94%); GREECE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (77%); 

CITY: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; CYPRUS; GREECE; TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); CYPRUS (94%); GREECE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); CASPIAN SEA (77%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EARTHQUAKES; GREECE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); BOND ISSUES (72%); BONDS (72%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ECEVIT, BULENT (PRIME MIN); KINZER, STEPHEN BILL CLINTON (96%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



644 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1754 words

HEADLINE: Auto Dealer Has an Offer for Drivers With Bad Credit, but There's a Catch

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 29

 BODY:
A car dealer here is making a big push into leasing used cars to poor people with no credit or bad credit. But the deals come with streetwise terms: miss a payment and the car won't start.
The dealer, Mel Farr, the former Detroit Lions football player, leases the cars to anyone who can come up with at least $50 a week. The catch is that a payment is due every Friday and customers must pay up weekly to get a code they must punch into a device attached to the dashboard. Otherwise, the car stays parked. 
 Is Mr. Farr an angel for making cars available to those who otherwise could not afford them, for giving people a reliable way to get to work and an opportunity to re-establish their credit? Doing business with him isn't cheap: car buyers who qualify for bank loans can borrow at about 9 percent, and Mr. Farr charges more than twice that on comparable leases to customers with the coded device. Does that make him a vulture getting top dollar for old, beat-up cars by preying on those who have nowhere else to turn?
It depends on whom you talk to. Mr. Farr, the owner of the Mel Farr Automotive Group, says the unusual arrangement is a boon to inner-city residents who might otherwise have to rely on spotty public transportation -- or their feet. Customers seem to be generally satisfied, though two have filed a lawsuit contending that their engines shut down as they were driving the cars.
Mr. Farr's biggest supporters are among the country's political and economic elite. Prodded by the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, Wall Street recently showered Mr. Farr's company, the biggest black-owned business in the United States, with $36.5 million in new financing that enables him to expand in urban markets. And in a public relations coup last month, President Clinton publicly thanked him for bringing cars "to every community in this country."
Some critics, though, portray Mr. Farr less as a do-gooder than an exploiter. "It is a no-fault system of consumer oppression by an auto dealer who should know better," Ralph Nader said. "It is an electronic form of consumer servitude."
Mr. Nader objected to Mr. Farr's interest rates, which fall between 22 and 25 percent, and to his marketing to people so desperate for transportation that "they'll take anything." He also worried about the danger of accidents if the devices malfunctioned.
Mr. Farr, a media hound who plays a "superstar" in his own commercials, wearing a red sequined cape and flying, brushed off such criticisms, saying that he has found a way to get cars to people no one else will finance. "It would be cheaper for them to have good credit," he said. And cutting off the juice is a time-honored tradition, he added. "You don't have to have good credit to have lights and electricity," he said. "If you don't pay your light bill, they will cut it off -- they don't care what you've got in your refrigerator."
The "on-time" devices on his cars are necessary, he said, to insure that people who have a track record of not paying their bills pay up. He contended that it was impossible for the apparatus to shut off the engine while a car was running. Moreover, he said the leases were properly priced because "the risk justifies it," and they were within the confines of Michigan laws, which allow charges of up to 25 percent. "I'm not taking advantage of the customer and they're not taking advantage of me," Mr. Farr said.
In a telephone interview last week, Mr. Jackson defended Mr. Farr's unorthodox leases, saying that although the interest rates are high, they are legal and they are a good first step to providing credit where none is available now. "As we seek to greenline these redlined zones, you must introduce access and then competition and then bring prices down -- that's the way our system works," Mr. Jackson said.
Since late June, when the deals were first offered, 280 people have signed up, most in Detroit and the rest in the Dayton, Ohio, area. None are behind on their payments, the company says. And many of those questioned about the leases seemed content.
"When you come in walking, you don't squawk," said Betty A. Ware of Detroit, who rode the bus to one of Mr. Farr's dealerships to lease a bright red 1995 Ford Aspire for $77 a week.
She did not go to Mel Farr's dealership first; she went to the one she knew had overcharged her for her last car. But it wanted $5,000 down for a used Chevrolet Blazer, more than she could afford. "I don't have the best credit in the world," she said. "When you don't have great credit, you usually deal with who will deal with you." She said she did not mind the on-time device.
Thomas K. Sandelin, 46, who had just signed up to lease a black 1993 Ford Ranger pickup, said he actually liked the device. "It is easy for me to get delinquent in payments because I often procrastinate," said Mr. Sandelin, a Detroiter who builds Chryslers at a suburban factory and has been riding to work with a friend for the last few months.
He went to Mel Farr's dealership after hearing a radio advertisement saying that those with bad credit could still buy a car. Mr. Sandelin said a divorce had left him owing back taxes and other debts that led him to declare bankruptcy.
Jeffrey H. Zarbaugh, 38, was more fatalistic. "I think it is all right, I guess," said Mr. Zarbaugh, who owns a business installing carpets and tiles and has never taken out a loan. "If you plan on making your payments, it is no big deal." Because he knew he had no credit history, he went to Mel Farr's dealership after seeing a sign out front that said "we finance anybody."
The lawsuit concerning the on-time device was filed by two women who blamed the contraption for shutting off their engines. The women, who had made their payments on time, are seeking revocation of their leases as well as unspecified damages, and they want the dealership barred from using the devices.
According to their lawsuit, the women were not told that their cars would carry the devices until after they had given the dealership their down payments.
Their lawyer, Kenneth N. Hylton Jr., said the women had gone separately to Mr. Farr's dealership to buy cars but had been told they lacked good credit and were instead steered toward leasing cars with the on-time device. "They were desperate for transportation," he said.
One of the plaintiffs, Chavela J. Jones, 21, who pays $75.96 a week to lease a light blue 1991 Ford Escort, said that as she was driving along the freeway with her 3-month-old son, she heard the on-time device click and suddenly found herself coasting along in the far left lane. "Cars are just whizzing by -- trucks and cars -- and I'm in a little bitty Escort," she recalled. She shifted into neutral and restarted the engine as the car rolled. But the engine shut off again and again, and she had to repeat the procedure to get off the freeway safely.
She told the dealership she had had repeated trouble with the on-time device since getting the car on July 24, and workers there replaced it on Aug. 3, she said. Since then, she has had no problems with the device but fears it will malfunction again. She also said she felt humiliated driving around with the on-time device. "I just don't feel like I should be treated like a second-class citizen," she said.
The other plaintiff, Mandy Bergeron, leased a red 1994 Ford Probe that shut down three times: twice on a freeway and once at work, according to the lawsuit.
Mr. Farr, through a spokeswoman, said the on-time payment device was not to blame, saying there could have been a mechanical problem with the used cars that caused the vehicles' engines to cut off.
Frank C. Simon, who invented the gadget and is the vice president of its maker, Payment Protection Systems Inc. in Temecula, Calif., said, "Our system is designed to be fail safe."
The mechanism can be attached to a car's starter or ignition circuit, he explained. If it is linked to the starter circuit, it functions only when the car is started, not when it is running. If it is hooked up to the ignition, the computerized device monitors the ignition line for voltage, which indicates the car is running. It will not stop a car that is running, but will prevent a car from starting, Mr. Simon said. "This is not a dangerous system."
Other customers are content driving around with the gizmo. Starlene J. Blevins, 25, said she had had no problems with the burgundy 1994 Mercury Tracer she got in mid-July. "It's been working fine -- although my note has been paid always," Ms. Blevins said. She added, though, that when her friends see the blinking lights on the dashboard that remind drivers that a payment is due, they say that "I'm crazy."
The devices have been in use only for about two years, and they have drawn limited interest from car dealers; Mr. Farr is the largest user, and most others are tiny "buy here, pay here lots," Mr. Simon said. He said his company had sold about 1,000 of the devices in the last nine months for $189 each. Other companies make similar devices, and perhaps 15,000 to 20,000 are on the streets, he said.
Mr. Farr has been part of Mr. Jackson's effort to prod Wall Street to back companies owned by members of minority groups. On Aug. 20, Mr. Farr raised $36.5 million from financial institutions. About $13 million of that money will be used to finance up to 1,200 additional leases on vehicles with the on-time devices, with the rest used to pay down existing debt from his finance company.
Mr. Farr said he had originally hoped to raise $45 million and had expected the deal to close early last month. The deal was "the toughest thing I've ever had to do in my entire life," Mr. Farr said, because "I happen to be black and I happen to want to do business in the community that they say won't pay you."
To inspire customers to pay up, Mr. Farr shows them a video of himself giving money-management tips. Mr. Farr appears in his trademark tan suit and red cape and urges those on limited budgets not to waste money on fancy hairdo's, manicures, clothes or fast food. Those who pay on time for a year are promised the chance to trade up to a nicer car. So far, he says, many customers are paying three payments ahead of time, to be sure their cars will start.
"If you don't pay us, I'll do everything in my power to find you and take my car back," Mr. Farr says sternly in the video. "So make the most of this opportunity."
After all, he is. "I see no competition," Mr. Farr said. "They are customers that no one wants."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Betty A. Ware, who rode a bus into a Mel Farr dealership to lease a 1995 Ford Aspire for $77 a week, did not object to Mr. Farr's unusual requirements. "When you come in walking, you don't squawk," Ms. Ware said. (Photographs by Allan Barnes for The New York Times); Every week, drivers punch a code into a device that lets the car start. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7532 TOP, BODY, & UPHOLSTERY REPAIR SHOPS & PAINT SHOPS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEL FARR AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (58%); DETROIT LIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); CITY LIFE (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (58%); SUITS & CLAIMS (51%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN; FARR, MEL RALPH NADER (76%); BILL CLINTON (53%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



645 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Stroud Journal;
A Factory Breathes Life Into a Town Left to Die

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: STROUD, Okla.

 BODY:
When the good news finally came to this tiny town grown accustomed to bad news, a collective exhale of relief swept Main Street. For a place left for dead, perhaps it was fitting that the source of jubilation was the arrival of a factory that would build gravestones.
"Thank goodness," said Stroud's beleaguered city manager, Earl Burson, after two entrepreneurs announced plans to employ 300 people to produce bronze cemetery markers. "You realize there is hope." 
 Until the announcement earlier this month, Stroud had seemed a likely candidate for a headstone of its own. Perched on the Interstate halfway between Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Stroud, population 3,100, had been a thriving community before a band of tornadoes swept through the state more than three months ago, killing 44 people, injuring hundreds more and destroying or damaging more than 8,000 homes.
The town was actually spared the worst of the devastation: There were no deaths, no serious injuries and damage to homes was fairly modest.
But the tornadoes touched down with the precision of smart bombs and served as a sudden, bitter reminder of the tenuous nature of prosperity in most small towns, even in flush times.
The outlet mall, the source of nearly half the city's tax receipts, was destroyed. The hospital, one of only two in the county, was badly damaged. A food distribution center, the city's biggest employer, was leveled. It was a devastating economic blow made nearly fatal when the three out-of-town corporations that owned or managed the buildings all announced that they would not rebuild.
"The percentages of that happening to you is like lightning striking three times in the same place at the same time," said Joe Sykora, 79, a retired merchant who volunteers at the Chamber of Commerce.
Suddenly, Stroud had lost nearly 600 full-time and part-time jobs. Closing the outlet mall meant that 60 percent of the city's $1.3 million in annual sales taxes was gone. Without a hospital, the city took over ambulance services and began rushing patients to a smaller hospital farther out in the county.
The city slashed its budget and canceled orders for a fire truck and a police cruiser. There wasn't even enough money to pay the $2,000 to put flowers in the planters on Main Street. Merchants had to pick up the tab.
"To walk around and look, it looks like nothing has really happened to the town," said Debbie Henley, a secretary at the First Baptist Church. "It's just now hitting people for them to realize that economically we are in trouble."
Danny Beltz, 58, the municipal judge and town historian, said Stroud's problems underscored the boom-and-bust cycles endured by many small towns, which often depend on one or two large employers.
More than a hundred years ago, Mr. Beltz said, Stroud was a famous whisky town with 16 saloons attracting patrons from the nearby Creek Indian reservation, which was dry. But early this century, Stroud went dry as well, and Mr. Beltz said poverty followed.
Cotton was then king until prices went bust in the 1920's but, luckily, oil was soon discovered nearby. Until it closed in the 1980's, a local refinery had employed 500.
"This town just very nearly died after the refinery went out," Mr. Beltz said. "We were sort of a one-industry town. The only thing that helped us was when they built the outlet mall."
Now, the loss of the mall and the food distribution center has brought criticism from some merchants who blame city officials for failing to diversify the local economy. "It's one of those deals where they put all their eggs in one basket," said Judith Walkingstick, who owns a real estate agency with her husband.
But Mr. Burson said Stroud was in the process of diversifying. The town had passed a one-cent sales tax to pay for water and sewer infrastructure at a new industrial park. Now, with the loss of the mall, Mr. Burson said the project had been postponed because there was not enough money to pay for it. Instead, the city has applied for a $2 million Federal grant. State officials, prompted by Gov. Frank Keating, are also working on incentive packages to lure a replacement for the mall.
For now, the announcement that a start-up company, Superior Bronze Corporation of America, plans to build a factory on the site of the destroyed food distribution center has lifted the spirits of Stroud's residents.
Mr. Burson cautions that the deal is far from finalized; the financing is not completed nor is the sale of property. But officials at Superior rushed out with their announcement earlier this month because they were concerned that potential employees were moving away in search of other work. The jobs will pay $10 an hour, a solid wage by local standards, and Superior officials predicted that 75 people would be put to work by November and 300 by the end of the year.
People are still bracing for leaner times. City officials are negotiating to bring in another health care company to rebuild and operate the hospital. But Debbie Wilson, co-owner of Stroud True Value Hardware, said people had greeted the news of the gravestone factory "like it's a miracle."
"The spirit of the town is 100 percent better," Ms. Wilson said. "There were a lot of people in the dumps. Of course, all the old people have said: 'Don't worry about it. We'll be fine.'
"They said, 'Stroud always bounces back.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The outlet mall, which was leveled by tornadoes in May, was one of three major employers to close in Stroud. (Associated Press); "You realize there is hope," said Earl Burson, the city manager of Stroud, Okla., after a factory announced plans to build in the city. (Jerry Laizure for The New York Times)
 
Map of Oklahoma showing the location of Stroud: Stroud, Okla., lost nearly 600 jobs after tornadoes struck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPERIOR BRONZE CORP OF AMERICA

ORGANIZATION: SUPERIOR BRONZE CORP OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: STROUD (OKLA); OKLAHOMA; UNITED STATES (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CEMETERIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; TORNADOES TORNADOES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CEMETERIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); SALES TAX (70%); BUDGETS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); HISTORY (60%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM BEN NELSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



646 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2400 words

HEADLINE: Japan Bets on a Wired World to Win Back Its Global Niche

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: KATSURAO, Japan

 BODY:
A bit nervous, Haruo Saito faced his doctor. Mr. Saito, 78, short of breath and slow moving since his stroke a few years ago, had just had his blood pressure and electrocardiogram taken, and now he explained that he had been dizzy lately.
The doctor, Shuichi Shigetomi, listened politely but seemed a bit stiff and showed no warmth in his bedside manner -- which was not entirely surprising, since he was 30 miles away. 
 The consultation took place over a videophone and a small electronic monitoring box in Mr. Saito's home here in Katsurao, a tiny town in the hills about 160 miles northeast of Tokyo.
The checkup demonstrated that even after a decade of humiliating recession and stagnation, Japan has a knack for turning up unexpected ways to harness technology and pamper the consumer.
Mention Japan, and one thinks these days of tumbling property prices and tumbling egos, a struggling stock market and rigid regulation, bad bank loans and caterpillar-like consensus management. But the overall economic and financial catastrophe in Japan is obscuring a slow metamorphosis in mood and method, particularly in technologies that make life more convenient and alter the way companies do business.
Take the new mobile videophone from Kyocera. Or the new microwave from Sharp that automatically cooks from recipes found on the Internet. Or the new washing machine with an 18-minute cycle that scrubs a person instead of clothing. Or the nifty personal locators that fit into a pocket and use satellite data to generate a map showing a person's whereabouts.
Global positioning systems may be an American invention, but many Japanese mothers use them as locators that fax back maps with the whereabouts of their children and even elderly parents.
Japan's last wave of successes was with cars and audiovisual products and in the 1970's and 80's when its companies cleaned up selling Walkmans and sedans and compact-disk players.
That wave has largely run its course, and now Japanese companies are scrambling to race ahead of the rest of the world by reaching into millions of homes and transforming kitchens, bathrooms, televisions and every other aspect of life in an aging society.
There is, of course, no guarantee that these futuristic devices will catch on with consumers or that technology or the market will not shift in other, unanticipated directions. But Japan has always been a king in new gadgetry, even though it has lagged in the Internet. And now it is struggling to catch up with the United States in information technology.
In the process of recapturing its technological prowess, Japan is, experts say, coming up with original applications and snazzy designs that may once again captivate the world.
Along the way, the experts say, executives are taking on more risk, dancing around bureaucrats and becoming increasingly entrepreneurial as the Government unfetters industries ranging from finance to telecommunications.
If the momentum grows it might help cultivate a spirit of creativity that will help Japan reinvent an economy threatening to wind down in the 21st century.
"What the U.S. saw five years ago is around the corner," said Kenichi Ohmae, an author and business consultant, referring to the shift in spirit and a growing surge in technologies. "I can even hear the roar of the tidal wave."
There is no country like Japan when it comes to fusing and cross-fertilizing technologies to create something new, and as a country it often gains the largest bounty of patents each year.
The United States almost always invents the new paradigms, but Japan often transforms them into popular new products.
Take toilet technology, for instance. Japan took the mundane American toilet and added bells and whistles, not to mention water sprays and hot air jets. Japanese companies took videophones and electrocardiogram technology -- also spearheaded in the United States -- and twisted them into a new form of telemedicine, as showcased in the village of Katsurao. Some companies are also miniaturizing their own robot technology to produce robotic dogs and cats, useful as companions for the elderly.
Now, imagine marrying the playfulness of Japan's three-dimensional video games with the convenience and commercial opportunity of on-line shopping. It is still on the drawing board, but Mr. Ohmae says that instead of clicking and shooting down the enemy, consumers will be clicking and putting the bread into a shopping cart.
Already, Japan dominates some key electronics businesses, like household appliances, where much change is poised to take place, and Japanese companies are forging alliances with American companies like Microsoft and Sun Microsystems to secure leadership roles in the next generation of technologies.
Some economists also believe that Japan is now moving more resolutely to deregulate its economy, by liberalizing brokerage commissions, easing the way for new entrants in some industries and eliminating some licensing rules. Alongside the new technologies, they say, these moves will usher in an era of greater dynamism, innovation and profitability in many sectors of the Japanese economy.
"Those innovations come out of a process of a lot of people beating on you to make sure you're using your capital efficiently," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. "As you deregulate markets, the return to a good invention goes up and so people start having more good inventions."
 
The Uncertain Road
Playing Catch-Up For High Stakes
Still, even experts disagree on how far Japan will go, and critics say it has a great deal of catching up to do. Moreover, there is no guarantee that these new technologies can help restore Japan's faded economic prowess, and no one today sees Japan as a colossus ready to take over the world, a view that was common just a decade ago.
In fact Japan's record in technology has been embarrassing lately.
It invested enormous sums in high-definition television, in an advanced "fifth generation computer" project, in small-scale industrial robotics and other areas, with few of these huge investments proving commercially successful.
Moreover, Japan has yet to find its niche in the world's new Internet framework, and in recent years, it has lagged in the hottest new advances in information, biotechnology and environmental technologies.
"We have been totally defeated by U.S. technologies," said Nobuhiro Muroya, a deputy director of strategy at the Science and Technology Agency. "But we want to find the possibility of a big win the next time around."
Still, Japan remains the world's largest net exporter, and many of those goods are the product of clever manufacturing by Japanese companies that have usually paid for 80 percent of the spending on research and development in new technologies, on the theory that the market knows best where to invest.
While the Government does not expect to alter that balance dramatically, its last five-year plan for science and technology, which runs to the year 2000, set aside about $150 billion for scientific projects. And bureaucrats are pressing to pour still more money into key areas like genetics, information and the environment.
Taking a cue from America, the Government is also trying to build bridges between companies and universities, where many original ideas are generated.
But the market is still likely to drive technology better and faster than Japan's bureaucrats.
A good place to see what is brewing in the marketplace is the house of the future built by Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, a showroom for Japan's cutting edge technologies. This model house has devices that are now very expensive but that Matsushita expects to become affordable soon, perhaps in a couple of years.
At the front door, the moving picture of a visitor is sent to screens in each room, and if no one is home, the image is recorded and dropped into a home server, a storage center for the computerized, Internet-linked home.
In the living room, a 50-inch plasma-display television -- like a theater screen in miniature -- offers video-on-demand, electronic shopping and travel booking, and family-calendar planning.
In the children's bedroom, on-line education allows them to participate in classroom discussions, viewing themselves and other students asking questions.
In the bathroom, a health-monitoring toilet seat can measure a person's weight and body fat ratio, and can examine urine and automatically send the results to a hospital by Internet.
In the kitchen, one can choose a menu, order the ingredients for a meal and send the instructions to the microwave oven through the Internet.
A refrigerator can register each item, so that at the supermarket one can call up the refrigerator's Internet address and check its contents to see what food is needed.
 
The Rising Stars
A Maverick Spirit And a Rush of Funds
While Japan has long been dominated by big government and big business -- by five-year plans and companies like Matsushita -- in the last year or so there have been growing signs of sprouting entrepreneurship in high-tech start-ups.
Japan has had entrepreneurial fads before, and the small sums of venture capital newly trickling into start-up ventures have not yet changed any major corner of the world, but the mood seems to be shifting. Last month, for example, a rising star at the Finance Ministry quit his job to join a small start-up company. Resumes from elite-trained bureaucrats throughout the Government are also pouring into the offices of headhunters.
"This country is an agricultural people and it takes a long time to change, but once it changes, they rush," said Sachio Semmoto, a professor of business at Keio University.
Venture capital funds are forming like wildfire, perhaps faster than the entrepreneurs can soak up the funds. Even someone like Yoji Kawake, who used to have to beg small companies in Kyoto to take his venture capital because he is not a traditional banker, is having an easier time. "I think the entrepreneurial spirit is on the rise," he said.
A handful of companies are blazing a new trail, led by young energetic people like Hiroshi Mikitani, 34, who four years ago left his job as an investment banker at the Industrial Bank of Japan. He called up a few of his buddies in America -- he attended Harvard Business School -- and raised money to start Rakuten Market, which is becoming one of the hottest sites for electronic shopping in Japan.
Rakuten has 700 virtual stores, auction platforms and customer bulletin boards, and it sells everything from fish to books. After many months of recruiting engineers to write software and making some 2,000 phone calls to find clients, Mr. Mikitani is generating sales of $2 million a month and attracts 80,000 shoppers to his site each day.
"One of the most important things for an entrepreneur is that you feel everything as a challenge, not as a obstacle," he said.
Still, the obstacles are many -- high taxes, mounds of regulation, difficulties in hiring and expensive telecommunications charges that have stifled the growth of the Internet. Japan is still a largely hierarchical, status-conscious society, though E-mail is threatening to turn everything upside down.
"Does the Emperor use E-mail? Once you can say yes, then this breaks down the social boundaries," said Ray K. Tsuchiyama, a director at Analog Devices and a former representative in Japan for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In that case, Japan may still have to wait a bit. Makoto Watanabe, a spokesman for the Imperial Household, said that neither the Emperor nor the Empress currently use E-mail, nor do they plan to start.
 
The Plugged-In Future
A Bit of Anxiety Over the Easy Life
For now, most of the innovation in Japan is hidden in the corners of Big Business, which is still Japan's best big bet in technology.
That's how Mr. Saito, the man on the videophone, got his machines. In the first experiment of its kind, the long-distance medical trial in Katsurao was started this spring by Nippon Telephone and Telegraph, which poured in 50 million yen ($449,236) and was able to attract a remarkable 75 million yen ($673,854) in central and local Government funds.
Though a sleepy little place, Katsurao is one of Japan's most plugged-in villages thanks to some aggressive local officials, and it has become a laboratory for the kind of devices that will make life easier for the elderly people who make up 27 percent of its 1,900 inhabitants.
Each of Katsurao's 500 households now has its own videophone, courtesy of Nippon Telephone, and soon 300 households will have electronic units from NEC to measure vital health signs like blood pressure and heart beats.
Katsurai has no pharmacies of its own and the only medical care is a part-time clinic open two afternoons a week. But the hospital in the next village is linked up to Katsurao villagers, and pharmacies have agreed to send medicine by mail. Soon, the university will set up teleclasses.
Ensconced in her home in front of drawings by her grandchildren, Toshiko Yamada, a 62-year-old retiree, can rest assured that specialists are monitoring her health from the hospital. All she has to do is punch in yes-or-no answers to questions like "Have you eaten?" or "Have you had vertigo?" or "Do you have a problem breathing?"
She can then order an electrocardiogram, whose results will be automatically sent off to specialists by the machine. Every month, she gets a report summarizing her daily condition and any abnormalities.
"One time the rate of my heartbeat went above 100, and the public health official got worried and gave me a call," Mrs. Yamada said as she sat on a floor cushion beside the telehealth machine. "Then I realized that I had measured my heartbeat right after I had finished upstairs hanging up the laundry to dry."
Not everyone, though, is as overjoyed as Mrs. Yamada by such conveniences. Indeed, her husband, Isao, 66, staunchly resists giving in to home technologies. When he answers the videophone, he stands far enough away so that the camera cannot capture him in full view.
His hesitancy, however, appears tied mostly to anxiety over the unfamiliar. "For now, I'm not using it," he grumbles. "But maybe I might someday."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Matsushita's model home, the screen at left displays health figures, including weight and body fat, collected by sensors on the high-tech toilet. (Stuart Isett/Sygma, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Chart: "Wired Life"
The appliances in this house of the futurewould be linked to each other and to outside services like schools, hospitals and grocery stores.
 
NETWORK COMPUTER
Video link to school and work. Stores data on household energy use.
 
TELEVISION
Video-on-demand, On-line shopping and multi-room viewing.
 
MICROWAVE
Cooks recipes from memory.
 
REFRIGERATOR
Displays inventory.
 
HEALTH MONITOR
Measures vital statistics, has video link to doctor's office.
 
(Sarah Slobin and Mika Grondahl/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KYO (NYSE) (55%); 6971 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: KYOCERA CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HOUSING; DESIGN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); TRENDS (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AGING TRENDS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (65%); AGING (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (60%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL HARUO SAITO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



647 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: A Car, With a Catch, When Credit Is Bad

 BODY:
Mel Farr, the former Detroit Lions football player who is now a car dealer in Detroit, is willing to lease autos to people with no credit or bad credit. A payment of at least $50 is due every Friday night, and customers must pay up each week to get a code they need to punch into a device attached to the dashboard. Otherwise, the car won't start. It isn't cheap. Mr. Farr's interest rates run as high as 25 percent.
 Article, page A15. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT LIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AUTOMOBILE LEASING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (88%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



648 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 4049 words

HEADLINE: THE LAST LANDFILL: A special report.;
As Deadline Looms for Dump, Alternate Plan Proves Elusive

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN and ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
PUB-DATE: May 29, 1996,
There was one small problem. 
 Until 48 hours before the announcement, no one in the Mayor's office had bothered to tell the Sanitation Department about the timetable: that after Dec. 31, 2001, not a single old shoe, not a single "I <heart> New York" coffee cup, not a single piece of rotting refuse would ever again be buried at Fresh Kills. No exceptions.
The department suddenly had to figure out what to do with the 13,000 tons of household garbage added each day to the artificial mountain. Only a few months earlier, sanitation officials were still counting on using Fresh Kills for 15 more years or so.
Jaws dropped and expletives flowed, one senior sanitation official said. The challenge, another official said, "seemed like skiing down a slope with a lot of trees, on one leg." Nevertheless, the politicians' pledge, bolstered by a state law that passed a week later, guaranteed that after nearly 50 years of taking trash to the dump and covering it with dirt, there had to be a new plan.
Thus began a long-running, and still unfinished, scramble that has made New York City the butt of jokes about trading culture for trash and has produced sharp divisions among and within the boroughs over the growing burdens they will have to bear.
Just as critically, it has provided a telling insight into the political clout of Staten Island and its Borough President, Guy V. Molinari, a lifelong Republican whose constituents helped insure the electoral victories of the Mayor and the Governor.
Even now, with just over two years to go, sanitation officials still do not know where or how they will dispose of most of the city's residential garbage.
The city's latest trash management plan, written after the 1996 announcement and updated since then, assumes that all of the garbage can flow to distant landfills smoothly by rail, truck or barge. But almost every route faces political and legal challenges.
"Everyone agrees closing Fresh Kills makes sense, but it is wrong to set a date before you have a realistic plan," said Eric A. Goldstein, a lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group based in Washington.
Few people would dispute that Fresh Kills is an environmental nightmare. Designed when even the most dangerous substances were routinely dumped in unlined pits, the landfill has for five decades befouled the air of western Staten Island with noxious gases and has polluted the ground water with cyanide, pesticides and toxic waste.
But interviews with dozens of current and former city and state officials and executives of the nation's top waste-hauling companies suggest that plans for closing it -- and the timetable that Mr. Giuliani dictated -- have been shaped more by politics than by any thorough analysis of the city's needs and options.
"The Mayor has yet to involve the leaders of all five boroughs to develop a rational plan for the city's waste," said Howard Golden, the Borough President of Brooklyn, whose trash burden is almost certain to grow under whatever plan is devised. "The Mayor's current policy is a reward to his supporters on Staten Island."
Mayor Giuliani denies any political motivation, saying the issue is fairness. "Residents of the other four boroughs owe the people of Staten Island a debt of gratitude for what they have endured over the last half-century," he said recently. "The city should have closed the landfill years ago, and it's time to correct that mistake. It's not favoritism. It's simply the right thing to do."
Joseph J. Lhota, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said he was confident that Fresh Kills would close on time and pointed to various interim steps, like exporting household trash from the Bronx and Brooklyn to out-of-state landfills, that have cut the daily flow to Fresh Kills to 8,500 tons, from 13,000. Even without a long-term solution, he said, the city will have plenty of short-term options.
The likeliest would be to send 600 sanitation trucks, each lugging nine tons of trash, in daily caravans through the already traffic-clogged Holland and Lincoln Tunnels to depots in New Jersey and elsewhere. In addition, at least 240 18-wheelers crammed with garbage would head directly to out-of-town landfills.
But even those interim steps are likely to leave some trash without a home, according to waste industry officials and lawyers tracking the plans.
And sanitation officials this summer disclosed that if interim plans become bogged down in legal battles, they will need to invoke "emergency powers" to keep the garbage moving, hiring even bigger fleets of private trucks -- without environmental reviews or community hearings -- to clear streets of trash to prevent disease.
Meanwhile, the city's latest long-term plan -- which calls for building two giant, privately run waste transfer stations on the New Jersey waterfront and one in Red Hook, Brooklyn -- faces strident local opposition and lawsuits.
In fact, while many recent headlines have focused on the battle between the city and states like Virginia, whose Republican Governor engaged in a public spitting match with Mr. Giuliani over garbage earlier this year, it appears that squabbles within the city and in New Jersey are much more likely to derail the city's garbage plans.
Outside the city, plenty of rural counties and municipalities with modern landfills or costly incinerators are eager to take the city's garbage -- and millions of dollars in fees.
"We have a virtual smorgasbord of disposal options," said Dennis C. Vacco, the former New York State Attorney General who became a vice president of Waste Management Inc., the biggest company seeking city contracts, shortly after he negotiated an antitrust settlement with Waste Management over a company merger in his previous job.
Kevin Farrell, the new city Sanitation Commissioner, is similarly confident. "Fresh Kills will close if I have to padlock it myself," he said.
 
The Power Broker
Borough President And Trash Czar
 Despite the looming concerns, there is at least one official in New York who is smiling: Guy V. Molinari, the longtime Staten Island Borough President.
Since the 1996 announcement, Mr. Molinari has become New York's unofficial trash czar, playing a central role in almost every city decision involving garbage. He confers with Mr. Lhota four or five times a week on the issue. He employs consultants to monitor city garbage policies and talks frequently about possible disposal sites with political leaders and landfill owners. He even handpicked Mr. Farrell, who as a former top Police Department official on Staten Island was a political supporter of Mr. Molinari.
Mr. Molinari, who in the late 1980's was one of the first city officials to promote Mr. Giuliani as a possible mayoral candidate, said the Mayor has returned loyalty with loyalty.
"You break your back and hope they won't forget it," Mr. Molinari said. "Giuliani hasn't turned me down in six years."
Mr. Molinari's success over the last three years has made him something of a hero to his constituents -- even though many are still skeptical that the dump will close.
"It's definitely a triumph," said Frank Reali, a real estate agent on Staten Island.
Mr. Reali said that when he attends real estate conferences around the country people invariably equate his home with garbage. "Anybody from anywhere else, they always say, 'You're from Staten Island? That's where that landfill is.' It'd be nice to have that stigma go away."
But Mr. Molinari's dominance of garbage policy has inflamed passions in other -- more Democratic -- parts of the city, whose trash burden will inevitably grow with the closing of Fresh Kills.
"This feels more like a vendetta to us than a plan," said Lou Somes, a leader of a Brooklyn group called Red Hook Against Garbage. Residents of the neighborhood, who complain that it is already flooded with trucks hauling trash from restaurants and offices, have bridled at the prospect of a giant new transfer station for household waste -- one of the proposals favored by the Sanitation Department.
Much of the criticism has focused on the task force the city set up in 1996 to forge a closure plan. The group, now disbanded, included representatives from a variety of Federal, state and city agencies; the offices of the Mayor and the Governor, and two environmental groups, but had local representatives from only one borough -- Staten Island -- and the representatives were Mr. Molinari and his daughter Susan, who was then a United States Representative.
"It's very bad for the city to divide itself like this," said Marilyn G. Gelber, who at the time was the city's Commissioner of Environmental Protection. "It's a way of doing government that's very limited, bars the windows, bars the doors, and you end up with a select group of people trying to develop public policies that affect the whole city."
Other critics say that by setting a firm deadline, Mr. Giuliani has lost leverage in negotiations with private haulers.
"The waste companies are dictating the agenda," said Barbara Warren, an environmentalist who was on the garbage task force but who now considers the resulting plan -- which has been revised several times by the Sanitation Department -- fatally flawed. "These huge companies stand to make immense amounts of money on disposal."
Over all, the Sanitation Department estimates that the cost of closing the landfill will more than double the city's garbage budget -- from $142.4 million in 1997, the last year when all trash went to the landfill, to $301 million in 2002, the first year that no trash will go there.
A former top Sanitation Department official said this situation was a result of the city's putting all its hopes in the private sector, with no alternatives.
But waste industry representatives say the city's best hope is the private sector, which -- in theory, at least -- is best positioned to find the most creative, efficient ways to move something no one wants to see or smell.
And at least the city is finally grappling with a realistic alternative to continuing to dump at Fresh Kills, said Chaz Miller, a lobbyist for the National Solid Waste Association, a trade group in Washington. "Fresh Kills is an environmental obscenity," he said. "People lose sight of that fact."
 
The Landfill
Staten Islanders Grow Weary of the Jokes
 Long ago, Fresh Kills was just the name of a rippling creek in a duck-filled marsh on the western shore of Staten Island.
But by 1938, Robert Moses, New York City's construction czar, began to see it differently. If the Sanitation Department filled it with garbage, he could build a highway between his envisioned Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and New Jersey. In 1948, a smelly hill started growing in the wetland.
Mr. Moses promised that the dump would close by 1951.
But that never happened, and ever since, Staten Islanders have been wary of promises. On a recent afternoon at the Staten Island Mall, shoppers expressed doubts that the landfill would ever shut.
"They've had like eight five-year plans to close it and they keep pushing it back," said Samantha Jacobs, 19, a Staten Islander who is studying advertising in Manhattan.
Mr. Molinari is determined to prove her and other doubters wrong. He sees his effort as a righteous battle to end Staten Island's status as the city's figurative and literal dumping ground. He notes that around the time Fresh Kills opened, six other dumps were operating in other boroughs. Over the years, they all closed, like thousands of similar leaky dumps nationwide, and every New York City incinerator was shut down, too.
Only Fresh Kills remained, growing so big that it is visible to orbiting astronauts.
The result has been an immense, smelly humiliation. Town houses now encroach on the landfill and its odors reach the exclusive Todt Hill neighborhood two and a half miles away. Mr. Molinari is convinced that nobody in the other boroughs cares.
"All other New Yorkers know is that their garbage goes someplace," he said. "We've been abused to hell and back."
By early 1995, Mr. Molinari had the opportunity he had been waiting for. Mr. Giuliani had been Mayor for a year and Mr. Pataki had just taken office.
His relationship to Mr. Giuliani was particularly close. In 1988, Mr. Molinari, then a Congressman, was the first politician to publicly trumpet Mr. Giuliani as a mayoral candidate, and it was Mr. Giuliani who persuaded Mr. Molinari to run for Borough President in 1989. "I know the guy like the back of my hand," Mr. Molinari said.
Still, he knew that he had to force the issue. As candidates, neither Mr. Giuliani nor Mr. Pataki had promised to close the dump, instead pledging lesser rewards, like lowering fares on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge for Staten Islanders.
In May 1995, Mr. Molinari asked the borough counsel to prepare a Federal lawsuit against the city aimed at forcing it to close the dump, based on the contention that its emissions of methane and other gases violated the Clean Air Act. By February 1996, he was ready to sue, and he called Deputy Mayor Peter Powers. The Borough President said Mr. Powers had urged him not to sue, saying the Mayor would gladly issue an executive order to close the landfill.
But Mr. Molinari contended that the next Mayor might reverse course. "There's a lot of cynicism here on Staten Island," he said.
Undaunted, he filed the suit hours after the announcement of the impending landfill closure. For now, the suit is not being pursued, he said.
The courts were only one front in Mr. Molinari's battle plan. Another was the City Council, where Councilman Vito Fossella of Staten Island, now a Congressman, offered a bill to close the dump. More than half of the Council members supported it.
"It all happened very fast," said Mr. Powers, who is now a consultant to Waste Management, the largest of the garbage companies vying for city contracts. "Any one of these things would have made it happen."
In its pursuit of city contracts and smooth routes to its landfills in other states, Waste Management, which had $13 billion in revenues last year and is based in Houston, has retained a host of former political figures, including Thomas W. Corbett, a former Pennsylvania Attorney General, and Jody Powell, a Washington publicist who was press secretary to President Jimmy Carter.
Pressure to shut Fresh Kills was also building early in 1996, in Albany, where State Senator John J. Marchi, a Staten Island Republican, saw a chance to realize a 40-year dream. As a freshman Senator in 1958, he had drafted legislation to close Fresh Kills and other city landfills, only to see Gov. W. Averell Harriman veto the measure.
Now, Mr. Marchi, in an alliance with a Staten Island Democrat, Assemblyman Eric N. Vitaliano, was close to winning passage of a bill that would force the closure of Fresh Kills. They built support by adding a provision to kill the last incinerator proposal in the city, in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. This brought aboard Brooklyn Democrats.
Mr. Pataki's first reaction was that legislation was unnecessary, said Michael Finnegan, who was then his general counsel. The Governor could simply close the landfill on his own, something his advisers were urging.
But Mr. Marchi persisted. "I know you have every good intention, but people change," he recalled telling Mr. Pataki.
Mayor Giuliani took things a step further, urging the Legislature to move the deadline up by a year, to Dec. 31, 2001. The legislators did so, and the law passed overwhelmingly.
Larry Shapiro, senior attorney for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a supporter of closure legislation, said the law is ironclad. "A court could order garbage dumped in Central Park before it could order it dumped in Staten Island," he said.
Suddenly, city garbage policy had been completely, even dizzily, turned around.
In early 1996, Sanitation Commissioner John Doherty testified before the City Council about trash policies, and never even hinted that Fresh Kills might soon close. A sanitation planning document released that same year discussed keeping the dump going as long as possible. Even environmental experts eager to close Fresh Kills thought that it would take at least a decade.
"The wisdom of the time was there was probably another 10, 15 or 20 years before you really, really had to make this decision," said Ms. Gelber, the city's former environmental chief. "The view was that the Department of Sanitation could gradually get into this, learn how to do it, create the relationships. Then, when it was finally time to close it, you'd be in a good position to do so."
 
The Options
Simple in Theory, But Not in Practice
 Now, instead of facing a gradual transition, the Sanitation Department was thrown into a crash course on the politics and economics of exporting garbage.
Ways of handling the city's garbage have changed radically over the years, from scavenging pigs in the early 19th century to enormous rendering plants in remote areas after that.
These days, 860 collection trucks pick up residential garbage in the five boroughs and take it to one of seven marine transfer stations on waterfront piers. (An eighth station is temporarily shut down.) There it is dumped onto barges and taken to Fresh Kills, where cranes scoop the garbage into trucks that take it up the artificial mountain.
This system has enabled New York, unlike virtually every other big city, to take care of its own trash within city limits at a savings of hundreds of millions of dollars.
In theory, experts say, it should be easy to shift from the current dumping system to the new plan, which has two main thrusts. One is increasing the proportion of recycled residential garbage to 25 percent within four years, compared with 18 percent now.
But there is heated debate about whether this goal will be enough, a discussion Mayor Giuliani has animated by calling recycling a costly "frill" and its proponents "zealots." (After resisting for several years, he recently raised the recycling budget to pay for weekly pickups.)
In theory, sending the remaining garbage away should be simple. There are rail links on Staten Island and in the Bronx that could carry containers of garbage to any of the many landfills willing to take it.
But getting the trash from the other boroughs to these rail links is virtually impossible under the city's trash plan -- which grew out of the findings of the task force formed in 1996 -- largely because of provisions that were pushed by Mr. Molinari.
For example, the plan calls for "borough self-sufficiency," meaning that each part of the city must deal with its own garbage. This is fine for Staten Island and the Bronx. But it leaves Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan with no easy answers, say representatives of those boroughs and independent waste experts.
The dominance of Mr. Molinari and his borough continues to anger other city officials, who are still struggling for solutions.
"This administration ignores everything everybody says and has secret meetings just with Staten Island," said Mr. Golden, the Brooklyn Borough President. "This is the most outrageous and heinous act I've seen in all my years in politics."
The Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, is more supportive of the self-sufficiency policy. "I am willing to take our own waste," he said. "We're willing to do our fair share."
To reassure constituents who doubted that Fresh Kills would ever close, Mr. Molinari also demanded that the city's new trash plan include steady reductions in the flow of garbage to Staten Island. And so far the city has been able to do that, using truck and rail shipments to carry garbage to private landfills, mainly in Virginia.
But as that flow grows and as the number of outbound trucks increases, roads, bridges and tunnels leading out of the city will be jammed, some officials and industry executives predict.
"There will be no escape from traffic nightmares," said Ronald A. Klempner, president of American Marine Rail of Englewood, N.J., which is bidding to build a transfer station for household garbage in the South Bronx.
In the meantime, city proposals for long-term solutions have been announced and have fallen apart.
In December, with some fanfare, Mayor Giuliani unveiled what was described as the permanent answer: a plan for city contracts with private companies to build three large transfer stations to process garbage for shipment to out-of-town landfills. One would be in Carteret, N.J., another in Newark and a third in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn.
But within hours of the announcement, red-faced city officials were forced to acknowledge that they had given New Jersey officials little advance notice of the plan, prompting Gov. Christine Todd Whitman to tell New York to "drop dead."
Deputy Mayor Lhota said in a recent interview that several other New Jersey cities have offered sites for transfer stations; he declined to name them. But other officials, in New Jersey and in the waste disposal industry, say the idea is dead.
Experts predict a similar fate for the Red Hook proposal. Under it, giant oceangoing barges would transport garbage down the coast and up Virginia's James River for disposal in landfills. That plan was initially held up by a lawsuit filed by Virginia and the shouting match between Mr. Giuliani and Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d of Virginia.
But the real problem is likely to be lawsuits from neighbors in Red Hook, who say they doubt that the high-technology plan promoted by Waste Management -- with sealed containers -- will be odor-free.
Similar suits have been filed by residents of Williamsburg and Greenpoint, Brooklyn neighborhoods that have seen growing nighttime caravans of city and private trucks hauling household garbage under the city's short-term deals with private haulers.
"The stench from some of those trucks is unbearable," said Annette LaMatto of Williamsburg, a member of several Brooklyn groups fighting the city's garbage plan. "It's like a million elephants."
Whichever solution finally emerges, it appears clear that Fresh Kills, like an aging dinosaur, is nearing the end of its era.
Most of the activity there now centers on the installation of pipes to capture leaking liquids and gases. State and Federal environmental officials recently said the cleanup was meeting standards. Only 150 acres of the 3,000-acre landfill remain an active dumping area. No equipment is being replaced, nobody is being trained and supervisors are preparing to retire.
Tugboats still pull net-covered barges in batches of four. Huge clamshell cranes dump the waste onto a concrete slab, where front-end loaders scoop it into trucks, which then rumble to an area marked with tall sticks representing the day's planned accumulation of trash.
The dumped trash is mashed by tractors, which make the spongy ground roll slightly, like a shaken Jell-O mold. And by nightfall, the giant hill has risen by 12 feet. But closure preparations move ahead. Eventually, the last active areas will be sealed and the landfill will become a grassy hill.
After leading a springtime tour of the dump, Stephen Violetta, 51, an operations supervisor who has worked there for 12 years of his 30-year Sanitation Department career, said he was retiring soon as well.
For his part, Mr. Molinari said he was confident that the dump would close. "We're going to have one hell of a big party," he said. "We'll have fireworks from one end of Staten Island to the other."
But he is prepared for the worst. The Federal lawsuit that he filed three years ago is still on the books and ready to be revived if anything goes awry.
If the dump does not close -- and close on time -- he promises to be a very angry man.
"We would go back to secession," he growled. "Or I would go up on the roof of Borough Hall and shoot myself."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island, so big it is visible from space. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); CELEBRATION -- In 1996, Gov. George E. Pataki, flanked by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Borough President Guy V. Molinari of Staten Island, signed a landfill closure bill. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times); (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); GARBAGE OUT --Trash-hauling trucks leaving a marine transfer station on Varick Street in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Chart: "Running Out of Time"
Fresh Kills landfill is to close in 28 months, but plans for delivering the city's trash to other states remain unsettled.
 
Phasing Out the Old
For years, Fresh Kills served all of New York City. Trash was trucked to eight marine transfer stations throughout the city, loaded onto barges and floated to Fresh Kills. Staten Island trash was delivered by truck. Until recently, roughly 13,000 tons of residential trash was added each day. By Dec. 31, 2001, the city must divert all this rubbish outside the city.
 
Fighting Over the New
The simplest solution: use the same marine transfer stations, but take the trash to giant waterfront depots before sending it out of state. Some depots exist in Brooklyn and the Bronx, and other neighborhoods have been identified as possible sites for new depots. But community resistance, political missteps and a rule that forbids trash from one borough to pass through any other borough have rendered most of these sites unworkable.
 
Ambivalently Awaiting the Outcome
After the announcement of Fresh Kills' impending closure, states began bidding in earnest for contracts to import New York City garbage. Still, not everyone is salivating. In June, senators from various trash-importing states convened in Washington to push for Federal limits to interstate trash shipments. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: ;SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: ;SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: STATEN ISLAND (NYC); FRESH KILLS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; VIRGINIA; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LANDFILL LANDFILLS (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); MOUNTAINS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); POLITICS (71%); SKIING (68%); LAWYERS (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (61%); WATER POLLUTION (60%); CYANIDES (60%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; REVKIN, ANDREW C; MOLINARI, GUY V (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



649 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: One Last Mass, and a Group Moves On

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
The Rev. Luis Barrios began his final Mass at St. Mary's Episcopal Church in Harlem yesterday with a Spanish hymn accompanied by a Latin plena beat on tambourines.
"Sounds good already," said the Rev. Robert Castle, the rector, or the priest in charge, of the church. "I'm going to miss them." 
 The hymn was up-tempo, but the mood in the congregation was somber. Early this year, Father Barrios, an outspoken priest who has long had conflicts with the leadership of the Episcopal Diocese of New York over the church's policies and its mission, was told he would have to leave St. Mary's by Sept. 1.
His congregation has been meeting at the church at West 126th Street and Broadway since 1993, when Father Barrios was removed from his previous post at St. Ann's Church in the Mott Haven section of the Bronx. That removal came because of a conflict with the diocese that erupted over his blessing of same-sex marriages.
Father Castle, who has allowed political groups like the Black Panthers to meet in his church, then welcomed Father Barrios and asked him to offer services in Spanish. The Masses were such a success that Father Barrios soon had his own congregation, which the parishioners began calling the Iglesia Episcopal Santa Maria.
But with Father Castle, 70, scheduled to retire in December, St. Mary's vestry, or church council, has told Father Barrios that his congregation must find a new home so a new rector can begin with a clean slate. Father Castle's replacement has not yet been selected.
Yesterday, the 250-member congregation prepared for a nomadic existence by announcing that its next Mass would be held at the Cloisters.
Father Barrios urged his congregation to think of the change as a positive step, but said in private that he was disappointed with the vestry's decision, which he said was made without consulting members of the Spanish group.
"We got into a very rare and unique situation here where one part of the congregation was telling the other part of the congregation that they have to leave," he said. "I really believe the issue was ethnocentrism. They were not handling the fact that they have other ethnic groups within the congregation who were gaining power."
But Father Castle said Father Barrios's group at St. Mary's was a church within the church, not part of the larger congregation, which is English-speaking and 90 percent African-American. He said it was time for the Hispanic congregation to step out on its own. "We need to make a change and they need to make a change also," he said.
Some members of the Hispanic congregation say Father Barrios was asked to leave because of his political beliefs. When he was removed from St. Ann's, Father Barrios had also generated controversy through his support of programs like a needle exchange, a gay ministry and an outreach program to Puerto Rican political prisoners.
Father Barrios, however, said he does not bless same-sex union at St. Mary's, and Father Castle refused to comment on that issue.
"I think there's a concern that we're growing too big for the space and we're too political," said Rosita M. Romero, who is a leader of the committee trying to find the congregation a new home. She said the congregation supports independence for Puerto Rico and an end to economic sanctions against Cuba.
The Hispanic group has asked the Episcopal Diocese to help it explore options, one of which might be establishing a new church.
An official at the Episcopal Diocese said yesterday that the church's leaders were not available for comment. But Father Castle said the diocese had encouraged Father Barrios's congregation to apply to become a church.
Father Barrios said he would apply. "Each congregation is unique and is built on a kind of ministry that reflects a collective identity," he said. "I want to protect that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Luis Barrios celebrating his final Mass at St. Mary's Church on West 126th Street in Manhattan before he and his congregation leave to find a new home. Mass will be said next week at the Cloisters. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: EPISCOPAL CHURCH SANTA MARIA FORD (54%); EPISCOPAL DIOCESE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: EPISCOPAL CHURCH EPISCOPAL DIOCESE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ST MARY'S EPISCOPAL CHURCH (NYC); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; CLOISTERS, THE CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (93%); RELIGION (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); MARRIAGE (52%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA; BARRIOS, LUIS (REV) LUIS BARRIOS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



650 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Shopping for Shoes, and Schools?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While money may not be able to buy good teachers (Op-Ed, Aug. 23), it can keep poor and mediocre ones in the classroom. In New York City, economic incentives are not based on the quality of teaching but on longevity of service and accumulation of postgraduate credits. A teacher paid the maximum salary earns $70,000 a year, whether he has a Ph.D. in his subject area and is active in his vision for students or whether he is interested only in getting through the day while counting the years to retirement. 
 Good people will go into teaching if they perceive that it is a profession, not a job -- and that there is a career path with economic incentives based on knowledge of subject matter and the ability to transmit this knowledge to students.
 
ROBERT D. DIAMANT
Staten Island, Aug. 23, 1999
 
The writer retired as an assistant principal, New York City public schools. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: DIAMANT, ROBERT D NEW YORK CITY (81%); ROBERT D DIAMANT STATEN ISLAND (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1999



651 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 2248 words

HEADLINE: Einstein, Confused in Love and, Sometimes, Physics

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE 

 BODY:
Our story so far: A quiet mathematical prodigy grows up in a family of high technology schemers into a cocky, charismatic youth. He drops out of school and leaves his country to dodge military service. In college he alienates his teachers by cutting class. He breaks his mother's heart by falling in love with an older foreign woman and fathering an illegitimate child, and eventually marrying her.
Moonlighting at science, while working as a minor civil servant, he publishes a series of papers challenging conventional notions of space, time and the nature of light, and works his way up the academic ladder, becoming estranged from his wife, who is depressed and jealous of other women. He begins an affair in another city. 
 So has life episodically unfolded, over 12 years, seven volumes and thousands of pages of the Collected Papers of Albert Einstein, a massive effort to publish all the 43,000 or so documents Einstein left behind at Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study when he died in 1955.
This spring, the eighth and thickest installment of this saga, Volume Eight, was published by the Princeton University Press in two parts totaling 1,118 pages, carrying Einstein through four of the most heroic and stormy years of his life, from 1914 to 1918, when, among other things, he finished work on his crowning achievement, the general theory of relativity.
Its most startling revelation is that in the spring of 1918, Einstein considered breaking off his engagement to his cousin Elsa Einstein and marrying her 20-year-old daughter, Ilse, instead. And the new volume calls into question the degree of Einstein's commitment to antiwar politics in wartime Berlin.
Most importantly, though, the papers here illuminate the tortured and confused path by which Einstein finally completed his long quest to extend the principle of relativity to explain gravity and the universe. Even Einstein, it seems, found it hard to be Einstein.
"In these pages," said Dr. Robert Schulmann, a Boston University historian and director of the Einstein Papers Project, "we can closely observe Einstein on his solitary path to general relativity, on which personal relations are sometimes callously sacrificed in the name of scientific ambition."
Volume Eight marks middle age for Einstein and middle age as well for one of the most monumental and star-crossed efforts in the history of science. The collection has already transformed scholars' view of Einstein, shedding a sometimes unflattering light on his personal life, and launching a wave of new biographies and television specials.
"You just can't do any work, not just on Einstein but on early 20th-century science, without referring to these volumes," said Dr. Gerald Holton of Harvard University, a physicist, historian and Einstein scholar.
A warts-and-all approach was exactly what the founders of the Papers Project had in mind and the trustees of the Einstein estate feared. A publishing agreement between Princeton University Press and Hebrew University in Jerusalem, to which Einstein left his papers and which he helped found, was signed in 1971, but work was delayed for several years by a lawsuit filed by Dr. Otto Nathan, a Princeton economist and Einstein's executor.
Dr. Nathan, who was protective of Einstein's public image, challenged the appointment of Dr. John Stachel, a Boston University physics professor with whom he had clashed, as sole editor. Only a committee could do justice to the breadth of Einstein's interests, Dr. Nathan argued.
An arbitrator ruled in favor of Dr. Stachel in 1981, but the work was already off to a late start. It was further delayed by the spectacular discovery of Einstein's love letters to his college sweetheart and first wife, Mileva Maric, which disclosed the birth of their illegitimate daughter, Lieserl, in 1902. (She is believed to have been born in Serbia, and her fate is unknown.)
Meanwhile, Dr. Schulmann said, continuing research has only increased the project's work. Diligent scrounging in attics and archives, and the courting of collectors and descendants of Einstein's friends and family, have produced another 25,000 papers.
The original archive is now in Jerusalem and is open to scholars, as are copies in the libraries of Princeton and Boston University, where the Papers Project is headquartered. To the occasional chagrin of independent historians and journalists, the so-called supplemental archive that the project has assembled is not.
Moreover, there is another archive that is off-limits even to the Papers Project. An undetermined number of letters have been "sequestered," in Dr. Schulmann's phrase, in a classified archive at the Hebrew University until 2006. Dr. Schulmann said he did not know what was in the sealed archive and admitted it was "uncomfortable" for a historian to be in the position of presenting only a partial record.
The most significant discovery to date of the Papers Project has been Einstein's letters to Mileva.
Subsequent volumes have revealed unflattering details of Einstein's marriage, including the affair with Elsa and a bossy memorandum detailing the conditions under which he would go on living with Mileva.
The editors are unapologetic for airing dirty linen. "To me this makes him more human," said Dr. Schulmann, who said he still liked Einstein and admired the way he thumbed his nose at authority. "The Einstein we're trying to recover in these volumes is a living, breathing personality with faults. We want to see what kind of personal style he had and what kind of scientific style he had."
That style is vividly on display in Volume Eight, which Dr. Holton described as project's "high point."
"In many ways it was the best of times and the worst of times for Einstein," Dr. Holton said. He finished working out general relativity, but within a few months of his arrival, his wife and children had left him and World War I broke out, stranding him in a sea of German militarism and wartime deprivation.
Einstein's theory, which explains how matter and energy "curve" the geometry of space-time to create the phenomenon known as gravity, has been called one of the greatest intellectual feats of all time. Einstein completed the theory in the fall of 1915 after eight years of struggle. Intriguingly, Einstein had actually written down the correct formulation as early as 1912 or 1913, but then abandoned it in favor of a different version called the "Entwurf," meaning design or blueprint, which he had cooked up with his old friend, the mathematician Marcel Grossmann.
One of Einstein's strengths was that he trusted his gut feelings, said Dr. Michel Janssen, a professor of physics and philosophy at Boston University and co-editor of Volume Eight. But sometimes, Dr. Janssen said, he could fool himself.
For example, Einstein discarded his original formulation of general relativity by coming up with a problem he called the "hole argument," which addressed the question of whether the universe was uniquely determined by the arrangement of its contents. Einstein believed that it must be, and that his original formulation would violate that principle.
In the fall of 1915, however, when the Entwurf theory was falling apart for other reasons, and the mathematician David Hilbert of Goettingen University was also on the trail of general relativity, Einstein changed his tune. He adopted a resolution of the hole argument that he had previously rejected and reinstated his original theory.
"Einstein is good at believing what he wants to believe at various stages of the game," Dr. Janssen said. "In 1913, the last thing he wants is to escape from the hole argument. He has too much invested in his Entwurf. In 1915, he wants the hole argument to evaporate. Einstein was a bit of an opportunist."
Einstein's personal life was marked by a streak of callousness and aloofness, Dr. Schulmann said. Nowhere is that more evident than in the strange letter, dated May 25, 1918, that Ilse Einstein sent to her close friend Georg Nicolai, a doctor, well-known antiwar crusader and Einstein family friend, with the words, "Please destroy this letter immediately after reading it" scrawled across the top in big letters. At the time Einstein, who had moved to Berlin four years earlier to take a lucrative appointment to the Prussian Academy of Sciences and become director of the newly formed Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of Physics, was 38 years old and in the process of divorcing Mileva, presumably so that he could marry his cousin Elsa. Ilse, the older of Elsa's two daughters, was serving as Einstein's secretary.
The letter was a plea for advice. In it Ilse related how a simple "jest" one afternoon had suddenly escalated into a serious proposal that Einstein marry her instead of her mother. Einstein, she said, had confessed that he loved her. Moreover her mother, she reported, was prepared to step aside, if that was what would make Ilse happy.
"Albert himself is refusing to take any decision; he is prepared to marry either Mama or me," Ilse wrote. "I know that A. loves me very much, perhaps more than any other man ever will, he also told me so himself yesterday," she went on.
The feelings, however, were not quite reciprocal. Ilse loved Einstein like a father, she wrote, but she had no desire to be close to him physically. Her instinct, she confessed, was not to marry him. "It will seem peculiar to you that I, a silly little thing of a 20-year-old, should have to decide on such a serious matter; I can hardly believe it myself and feel very unhappy doing so as well. Help me!"
There is no evidence that the relationship with Ilse was ever consummated. Einstein and Elsa were married the next year and remained husband and wife until her death in 1936. (Ilse later married Rudolf Kayser, a writer and literary critic who subsequently wrote a biography of Einstein. She died of tuberculosis in 1933.)
Ilse's letter first came to the attention of the Einstein scholars in the early 1990's. At least one of the other editors, Dr. Schulmann said, thought the letter might be a product of Ilse's imagination. "I take it very seriously," said Dr. Schulmann, noting that Nicolai was a former lover of Ilse, as well as an older man, in whom it would be natural for her to confide.
He said he saw the letter and the situation it described as an example of Einstein's vaunted ability to detach himself from the people around him. "The most telling point is that he doesn't care," Dr. Schulmann said. "That's the Einstein we know. He is indifferent to the question of whether he marries one or the other."
Ilse and her confidant Nicolai also emerge in the new volume as key influences on Einstein's political activities during the war. Shortly after the outbreak of hostilities, Einstein was one of only three people to sign an "Appeal to Europeans" deploring the destruction of international culture, making him a hero to the pacifist movement, and he attended meetings of a pacifist political club, the Bund Neues Vaterland. Historians have long thought that Einstein drew up the manifesto, but the evidence, Dr. Schulmann said, suggests that it was actually written by Nicolai, an antiwar crusader, and author of a book called "The Biology of War."
But, again, detachment characterized Einstein's actions. At the same time that he was attending antiwar meetings, presumably at the behest of Ilse and Elsa, Dr. Schulmann said, Einstein consulted for a maker of submarine gyroscopes and even tried to design an airplane for the military. In his letters he often said that the war did not intrude on him. "Why shouldn't one let the servants live happily in the madhouse?" he wrote to a Swiss friend.
After the Bund was outlawed in 1916, Einstein stopped attending meetings and resisted Nicolai's continuing schemes. Einstein "identified with the underdog and the outcast," Dr. Schulmann observed, "but he was not prepared to march in the ranks."
The slow pace of publishing the papers has provoked criticism from other scholars. In an interview, Dr. David Cahan, a historian of German physics at the University of Nebraska, said that publishing a series of bound volumes over the years was too slow and costly and wrongly concentrated resources on the editorial process rather than on the historical process.
"I'd like to see the E.P.P. put everything on the Web and simultaneously transform its quarters at B.U. into a true and open research and conference center devoted to Einstein scholarship," he said.
In fact, Dr. Holton said, the option of publishing the Einstein papers in a facsimile form was considered back at the beginning and rejected in favor of the traditional style of extensive annotation and accompanying essays. Dr. Schulmann said, "The goal is to provide as thick a context as possible."
No one knows how long it will take the project to finish its task, which is projected to encompass at least 25 volumes. Dr. Schulmann said it would take another 10 volumes to carry Einstein's story to 1933, when he left Berlin and came to America. There is already so much material that project officials are beginning to leave some things out. Walter Lippincott, the director of the Princeton University Press, likes to joke that he will be dead and his children will be dead by the time the last volume rolls off the presses.
Dr. Holton is undaunted. He noted that it took a lifetime to publish the papers of Thomas Jefferson.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Einstein posed with his friend and mentor Hendrik A. Lorentz, the physicist, in Leiden, Holland. (Museum Boerhaave/The Papers of Albert Einstein); In 1918, Einstein considered breaking off his engagement to his cousin Elsa and marrying her daughter Ilse, 20, above in undated photo. (Courtesy of Eva Kayser); Georg Nicolai, antiwar crusader, lured Einstein into pacifist politics. (The Collected Papers of Albert Einstein); The mathematician David Hilbert was also chasing general relativity. (The Collected Papers of Albert Einstein); Robert Schulmann, the historian who is director of the Einstein Papers Project. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times); In 1914, Germany's wartime fervor exasperated Einstein. (The Collected Papers of Albert Einstein/Culver Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: COLLECTED PAPERS OF ALBERT EINSTEIN (VOL 8)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PHYSICS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; RELATIVITY (PHYSICS) SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HISTORY (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (88%); PHYSICS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PUBLISHING (75%); LITERATURE (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); 

PERSON: EINSTEIN, ALBERT (1879-1955); OVERBYE, DENNIS; SCHULMANN, ROBERT (PROF) ALBERT EINSTEIN (95%); ROBERT SCHULMANN (63%); OTTO NATHAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



652 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: The Chills! The Thrills! The Profits!

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Aug. 30

 BODY:
In David Koepp's new film, "Stir of Echoes," opening on Sept. 10, Kevin Bacon plays a working-class lug from Chicago who begins to have unsettling supernatural visions after being hypnotized. On that same day moviegoers can watch Patricia Arquette experience strange apparitions of her own in Ruben Wainwright's "Stigmata."
Horror, it seems, is hot. First "The Blair Witch Project" came screaming out of cyber-nowhere to become the magazine-cover phenomenon of the summer. Then a little-heralded Bruce Willis creeper called "The Sixth Sense," which did not even highlight its star in its advertising, exploded at the box office and has refused to die, earning $138.9 million in its first 23 days of release and holding onto the No. 1 slot for four consecutive weekends. Has the mass film audience turned some sort of millennium-generated pop-cultural corner, sprouting a sudden and insatiable appetite for dark woods, ghostly visions and psychological horror? 
 Or is it just a really, really eerie coincidence?
"I feel that what happened is an immense coincidence," said M. Night Shyamalan, a 29-year-old writer, actor and director who sold the "Sixth Sense" screenplay to Disney a couple of years ago for $3 million, then among the highest prices ever paid for a screenplay.
"The surprise indie sleeper film of the summer happened to be a horror film," Mr. Shyamalan said, "and then my film came out right after it only because everyone shoved their movies toward the end of the summer to get away from 'Star Wars' and the new Austin Powers movie."
Coincidence may have been at work, but there is clearly some desire among filmgoers for a good, scary experience, one left untapped by "The Haunting," an earlier summer release that relied heavily on large-scale effects and was overwhelmed by the "Blair Witch" stampede.
"It never really goes away, this appetite for horror films," said Jeanine Basinger, chairwoman of film studies at Wesleyan University in Connecticut. "The millennium is approaching. We have all of these tragedies on our minds. In modern life it's just one damn thing after another, and we seek to explain it to one another. And if there's some experience that gives closure to it, gives an explanation or at least gives us reassurance that we're not the only ones having the scaries, it reassures us."
Robert Sklar, a New York University professor and author of "Movie-Made America," a highly regarded history of American filmmaking, agrees that if the spectacular success of these two recent horror films is more than a coincidence, it might find its roots in unease about the millennium. People, he said, are "spooked by all the things that are coming up at this time."
Mr. Sklar pointed out that the horror genre, one of the oldest in the movies, has always been cyclical, and that its moments of highest popularity have coincided with moments of extreme social and cultural dislocation.
Horror films like Robert Weine's "Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" in 1919 and F. W. Murnau's "Nosferatu" in 1922 were popular in Europe during the silent era, when the Continent was recovering from World War I. The golden age of Hollywood horror films came in the early 1930's, when Americans were struggling with economic depression. Directors like James Whale ("Frankenstein," "The Invisible Man," "Bride of Frankenstein") and Tod Browning ("Dracula," "Devil Doll") were establishing horror as a dominant genre.
In the 1950's, as Americans were coming to grips with the atomic age and the cold war, fears about annihilation and foreign aggression were played out in "The Day the Earth Stood Still" (1951), "The Invasion of the Body Snatchers" (1956) and numerous films about alien invaders, giant bugs and nuclear experiments gone awry.
The cycle, Mr. Sklar said, has always been the same: a burst of serious, creative films that eventually transform into comedies ("Frankenstein," for instance, becomes "Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein") before the right cultural moment engenders a revival. Perhaps, he said, the successes of "The Blair Witch Project" and "The Sixth Sense" show that the audience is poised for another such revival.
If so, it is a good thing for the filmmakers. The coming months promise a parade of either flat-out horror films or films with elements of supernatural or psychological unease, including David Fincher's "Fight Club," Martin Scorsese's "Bringing Out the Dead," Frank Darabont's "Green Mile," Tim Burton's "Sleepy Hollow," Peter Hyams's "End of Days" (in which Arnold Schwarzenegger does battle with Satan), Wes Craven's "Scream 3" and a remake of 1959's "House on Haunted Hill," directed by William Malone.
There is even a touch of old-style horror on the home-video front, with the release this month of two classics of the genre, including the original "Dracula," with Bela Lugosi, and George Romero's "Night of the Living Dead."
This sudden resurgence of the psychological horror film -- as opposed to its close cousin, the slasher flick -- has a lot of Hollywood executives asking themselves whether it is a fluke or a fundamental change in audience tastes. The betting seems to be that the back-to-back successes of "Blair Witch" and "Sixth Sense" was more of a quirky tremor than a tectonic shift.
"I think this has been more of a coincidence," said Dick Cook, chairman of the Walt Disney Motion Picture Group. "A few months ago no one had ever heard of 'Blair Witch.' Then all of a sudden it has become a huge, huge phenomenon."
Both Mr. Cook and Mr. Shyamalan acknowledge that they were worried that "Sixth Sense" would get lost in the hype surrounding "Blair Witch."
"That was the scary part," Mr. Cook said. "You certainly are concerned that with the momentum and the mountain of publicity and all that surrounded 'Blair Witch,' would 'Sixth Sense' attract an audience?"
Mr. Shyamalan said he was convinced that he had made a movie that could attract a large audience, perhaps even a huge one, and then "Blair Witch" came out of nowhere to draw all the attention.
"I couldn't believe it, man," he said. "I thought, 'Wait until the world sees we're going to be the big sleeper movie of the year.' There hadn't been a great horror film in years. Then 'Blair Witch' opens, people are going in droves, it's on the cover of Newsweek and Time. 'Oh man,' I thought, 'we're never going to get any box office.' My last two movies, nobody on the planet saw them. I thought, 'I can't believe it's happening again.' "
But "Blair Witch" didn't swallow up the entire horror audience. It seemed to have merely whetted its appetite. "The Sixth Sense" opened solidly in first place and has dropped only slightly over the subsequent weekends. There was also an interesting shift in the demographic makeup of the movie's audience over its four-week run, initially dominated by the 18-to-34-year-olds who are the traditional audience for horror movies and changing in its subsequent weekends to attract more younger and more older viewers, Mr. Cook said.
"There is no marketing you can do to create this kind of sustainability," he said. "Two or three movies a year have this kind of playability, and whenever you have that, you're sure to have some success. Then, once in a while, when all the stars are lined up perfectly, it turns into a cultural phenomenon which makes it into a mega-success."
Much of the success of "Sixth Sense" is attributed to strong word of mouth, since the film did not receive the kind of huge marketing blitz that often generates big summer hits. "People are coming out saying, 'Whoa!' " said Ms. Basinger of Wesleyan. "We don't see that much mature scare stuff. We've been in an era of slasher scare movies. These are schlock.
" 'Scream,' which I love, is winking at the viewer. This one does not wink at you and say, 'Hey, it's really O.K.' This is a movie that scares you down in the center, where it really hurts, a movie that speaks to real fear."
Wes Craven, who directed both "Scream" (1996) and "Scream 2" (1997) and whose "Scream 3" is due out in December, said that the success of "Sixth Sense" indicated not so much a rejection of gory horror as an appetite for all types of horror films, if well executed.
"I've never felt that gore is what makes something scary," he said. "It's all about whether you can intrigue an audience."
Mr. Shyamalan said he was particularly pleased that his film was a greater success this summer than "The Haunting," which in his view relied more on big special effects than on psychological tension and character development.
"Say it was reversed, and 'The Haunting' made $200 million, and we made $50 million," he said. "Studio executives would be saying, 'Well, that's what the audience wants, big special effects more than anything else.' So even if it's just temporary, at the moment people are saying, 'Hey, let's work on the character.' "
But several studio executives said they were reluctant to draw any hard conclusions about the back-to-back successes of "Blair Witch" and "Sixth Sense," which, they said, actually had very little in common outside of a few shared horror elements. Unlike "Blair Witch," "Sixth Sense" was largely uplifting and optimistic. "Any movie that is about death being not so bad or so final usually works," said Amy Pascal, president of Columbia Pictures.
Still, there is always a tendency to read too much into these pop-cultural coincidences, Ms. Basinger said.
"Two or three movies come out, and everybody wants to say: 'Is this a trend? Does it say anything about our society?' " she said. "You know what? Not a hell of a lot. These movies were developed two or three years ago in complete separation. Who knows what it means?"
Does she think moviegoers are turning away from gore and violence in favor of psychological horror and suspense? "You know, that'll be the day," Ms. Basinger said. "I don't think we've ceased to be bloodthirsty just because of Littleton, Colo."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Haley Joel Osment, above right, stars in "The Sixth Sense," which is holding on to the No. 1 spot at the box office. It followed "The Blair Witch Project" into filmgoers' willing nightmares. Forthcoming horror films include "Stir of Echoes," with Kevin Bacon, top, and "Stigmata," above left, with Gabriel Byrne and Patricia Arquette. (Photographs by Michael P. Weinstein (top), Richard Forman Jr. (above left) and Spyglass Entertainment Group (above))(pg. E1); A scary trendsetter: Michael Williams in "The Blair Witch Project." (Artisan Entertainment)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, THE (MOVIE); SIXTH SENSE, THE (MOVIE); STIR OF ECHOES (MOVIE); STIGMATA (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); FILM (90%); HORROR FILMS (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WRITERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK; WILLIS, BRUCE BRUCE WILLIS (73%); MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



653 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Apathy

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The political apathy among young people that Bob Herbert laments stems perhaps from the emerging centrist culture that is draining principle from the national discourse (column, Aug. 26). 
 America has long known a two-party system forged from polar ideologies. That system is now under attack by poll-sensitive politicians who have abandoned passion for political expedience. Though partisan squalor endures, Washington ideological rifts are increasingly shallow.
Consider the 2000 Presidential contest. It has been noted that the Democratic and Republican front-runners, Al Gore and George W. Bush, sound alike in their campaigns.
In centrist politics, all politicians sound alike. Passionate discussion of vibrant social issues yields to more bland discourse on the economy's health. It's no wonder that young people feel detached from the intricacies of Federal appropriations bills.
 
ANAND GIRIDHARADAS
Chevy Chase, Md., Aug. 29, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



654 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Home Buying Stays at Near-Record Pace

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
United States consumers bought new homes at the second-highest pace on record last month despite rising mortgage rates, the Government said today.
The number of new single-family homes sold in July reached a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 980,000, the Commerce Department said. Although that was up only one-tenth of a percent from June, it was the highest sales pace since the record high of 985,000 in November 1998. 
 "These are very high levels of home sales," said Pierre Ellis, economist at Primark Decision Economics in New York. "It's a sign that people are willing and able to make big-ticket purchases."
But Mr. Ellis cautioned that a persistently high rate could add to the Federal Reserve's worries about inflation, possibly leading to another rise in short-term interest rates.
The Fed has raised short-term rates twice this year, once on June 30 and again last week. That has helped drive up mortgage rates, which are now about a full percentage point higher than they were in November, at the peak of new-home buying. But to the surprise of many economists, the climbing mortgage rates have failed to put much of a damper on housing demand recently.
"We keep doggedly insisting that some cooling down is coming, but it's clear the housing market still has some kick in it," said David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders.
In a further indication of strength in the latest report, the department revised the home-sales total for June to 979,000 from a previously reported 929,000. June sales were up 7.3 percent from May.
A strong job market, rising incomes and growing wealth resulting from the strength of the United States stock market are credited with fueling purchases of homes.
Mr. Seiders said his group's own surveys have been hinting at some moderation in the market, but he said many of the probable limitations would come from factors like shortages of wallboard and other building materials rather than any serious waning of consumer demand.
The housing figures are seen as portending economic strength, not just because the healthy demand is expected to encourage more home building, but also because the new homeowners will probably be shopping for items like furniture and appliances. That could increase retail sales and thus economic growth.
The Commerce Department said that the median price of a new home had edged up in July to $156,000 from $155,000 in June. But the average price was lower, at $186,000 compared with June's $190,700. The supply of new homes stayed steady in July at 3.8 months' worth -- a low level signaling robust demand.
The strength in home sales in July was led by the Northeast, where sales soared 33.9 percent, to 83,000. Sales rose 9.9 percent in the Midwest, to 178,000, and two-tenths of a percent, to 470,000, in the South. They fell 12.9 percent, to 249,000, in the West.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Prices of New Homes" tracks median price for new homes, from February 1998 through July 1999; "New Home Sales" tracks number of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted annual rate, over the same period. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DECISION ECONOMICS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PIERRE ELLIS (67%); DAVID SEIDERS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



655 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Flow of Cash Into Stock Mutual Funds Rebounds in August

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Net inflows into stock mutual funds rose an estimated 50 percent in August, rebounding from a slowdown in July, as stocks gained and interest rates declined.
This month, investors were on pace to buy $18.3 billion of shares in stock mutual funds, according to Trimtabs.com Investment Research in Santa Rosa, Calif. The inflows picked up steam in the middle of the month as benchmark stock indexes bounced off their lowest levels in five months. 
 In July, inflows fell to $12.3 billion from $19.2 billion a month earlier, according to figures released yesterday by the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry's leading trade group.
"Over the past few years, you've had stretches of weak inflows, but it always comes back," said Russel Kinnel, mutual funds editor at Morningstar Inc., which tracks mutual funds.
At Fidelity Investments in Boston, a unit of the FMR Corporation and the biggest mutual fund company, net inflows to stock funds in August declined to $900 million through the end of last week, from more than $2 billion in July, said Anne Crowley, a Fidelity spokeswoman. The company's overall net inflows totaled about $4.3 billion, with $3.4 billion going into money market funds.
The Vanguard Group, the second-biggest fund company, said net inflows for August through last week slowed to $3.1 billion from $4.2 billion in July. Stock investments totaled $2 billion, down from $3 billion a month earlier.
The Charles Schwab Corporation, the nation's largest discount and on-line brokerage firm, reported net outflows of $159 million from stock funds through Friday. Funds focused on growth and aggressive growth companies lost a combined $411 million, said Morrison Shafroth, a company spokesman. Index funds posted net inflows of $188 million, Schwab said.
Over all, the biggest turnaround came in international stock funds, Trimtabs said. About $5.3 billion poured into foreign-stock funds, compared with net outflows of $700 million in July.
In the Trimtabs estimate, net buying of United States stock funds increased to $13.1 billion in August from $10.3 billion in July. Of the companies tracked by Trimtabs, 35 had net redemptions, 29 received new cash and 19 were little changed.
For the first seven months of the year, net flows into stock funds declined to $102.7 billion, the lowest since 1995, from $143.9 billion in the corresponding period a year earlier, according to the Investment Company Institute. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (91%); MORN (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TRIMTABS.COM INVESTMENT RESEARCH; INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE FMR CORP (93%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (91%); MORNINGSTAR INC (84%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (55%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIMTABS.COM INVESTMENT RESEARCH; INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



656 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: The Russian Money Trail

 BODY:
The suspected Russian laundering of billions of dollars through the Bank of New York is giving the world a disquieting look into some of the darkest corners of Russian life. The financial threads that American and Russian investigators are now tugging on seem to lead most directly to the international operations of the Russia mafia. But even more important is the possibility that the inquiry will uncover evidence of corruption at top levels of the Russian Government, including illegal diversion of loans from the International Monetary Fund.
Because of the sensitivity of the investigation, and the political fallout it may produce as elections approach in both Moscow and Washington, it is critical that the inquiry be unflinching but fair. Politicians in both countries are already rushing to apportion blame for misconduct that has yet to be formally alleged, much less proved. There will be ample time to review the performance of Russian officials, and the Clinton Administration's handling of Russia, if high-level corruption in Moscow is confirmed. For now, the need is to investigate thoroughly and without fear of where the evidence may lead. 
 So far the only firmly established information is that at least $4.2 billion and possibly as much as $10 billion from Russia passed through the Bank of New York last fall and winter. Bank executives, eager to expand their overseas business, initially seemed happy to receive the deposits, even though the gusher of money should have raised suspicions. Investigators believe the banking transactions were designed in part to launder dollars collected by the Russian mafia, a varied array of criminal organizations that feast off the chaotic Russian economy. But the scale of the operation suggests that other sources of money were involved as well.
One theory, advanced by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a Russian businessman under investigation in the inquiry, is that Russian officials used the bank to shield profits earned from the manipulation of Government securities before the ruble devaluation a year ago. Another line of speculation is that some of the billions of dollars in I.M.F. loans to Russia this decade were siphoned off by Russian politicians. In Moscow's hothouse atmosphere, these suggestions have added to charges, unsubstantiated so far, that President Boris Yeltsin, his family and his closest aides have secretly shipped millions of dollars abroad.
It is premature to judge any of these assertions. Certainly, conditions conducive to high-level corruption abound in Russia. Criminal syndicates are active, law enforcement is lax and in recent years a small group of Government leaders has managed the transfer of billions of dollars' worth of state assets to private hands. But the presumption of corruption in general, which is a reasonable belief, is far different from proving actual criminal conduct by specific individuals.
It is also a leap to suggest at this early stage in the investigation that the case shows the Clinton Administration has mishandled relations with Russia by supporting Mr. Yeltsin and his Government. The White House would have been irresponsible if it failed to assist the first democratically elected Government in Russian history. Whether the Administration was sufficiently sensitive to corruption problems in the Kremlin can and should be debated as the Presidential campaign here unfolds. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY LAUNDERING; EDITORIALS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEVALUATION (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



657 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
BBDO New York enters cyberspace in a big way with an agency focused on interactive marketing.

BYLINE: By Patricia Winters Lauro 

 BODY:
BBDO NEW YORK, known for its television commercials for longtime clients like Pepsi-Cola, Visa and Frito-Lay, is making a big push into the exploding business of Internet marketing with the opening of a new agency dedicated to interactive marketing.
Called @tmosphere, the new shop is BBDO New York's vision of a hybrid agency that marries the technical ability of Internet marketing with traditional advertising techniques. To fulfill that vision, the firm is bringing in the top BBDO senior creative director, Mike Campbell, as its managing director. Mr. Campbell has worked on virtually all of BBDO's top accounts, creating memorable TV spots that have included the comical Donald and Ivana Trump spot for Pizza Hut and the much-publicized Mario Cuomo-Ann Richards spot for Doritos. 
 The new shop opens with capitalized billings of about $25 million from BBDO clients like Visa USA and General Electric and assignments for Federal Express, Frito-Lay, M&M/Mars and Pepsi One. That places @tmosphere squarely in the middle of the pack of the top 100 interactive ad agencies compiled by Advertising Age, the trade publication. In comparison, the nation's top interactive shop USWeb/CKS in Santa Clara, Calif., had $125.3 million in revenue last year, up from $54 million.
BBDO's move may foreshadow a coming consolidation in the interactive agency world as the Web has evolved from a hip, young medium into mainstream big business. Last year, $1.03 billion was spent on Internet advertising, up from $544 million in 1997, according to Intermedia Advertising Solutions, a unit of the Dutch conglomerate VNU Marketing Information Services.
BBDO's new agency is late to the field. Many of the big Madison Avenue agencies already have prominent interactive shops, like Ogilvy Interactive and Grey Interactive. "They're late to market," said Marissa Gluck, an analyst with Jupiter Communications in New York, an on-line research firm "I think they're going to have a tough time of it."
But BBDO said it believed its timing was actually opportune because the interactive business is now out of its infancy and ready for the skills of top-notch creatives. BBDO New York is part of BBDO Worldwide, which is ranked by Advertising Age as the world's third-largest ad agency.
"We've seen the engineering, the strategic planning and the placement, but we haven't seen breakthrough ways of interacting with consumers on the Internet -- no one is doing world-class creative," said Bill Katz, BBDO New York's president and chief operating officer.
Ted Sann, BBDO's co-chief executive and chief creative officer, said: "When you talk about building brands, that's not happening yet on the Internet. No one has cracked that code -- we're still in the very early stages of development."
BBDO has been involved in Internet advertising for about four years via BBDO Interactive, an in-house department that was mainly a media buying unit. The new agency will be involved in all aspects of Internet marketing -- from advertising to Web site development to strategy -- and will operate independently in its own offices apart from BBDO headquarters. The new agency, which will report to BBDO New York, will also seek its own new accounts.
BBDO's parent company, Omnicom Group, has also been intricately involved in the Internet and was one of the early investors in the fledgling interactive business via its Communicade unit, a portfolio of investments in interactive, E-commerce, digital design and technology companies. Omnicom has a stake in several independent interactive shops, including Organic, Razorfish, Red Sky and agency.com.
Indeed, @tmosphere will be headed by a Communicade senior consultant, Susan Pinkwater, who becomes the new agency's president and chief executive. Earlier, Ms. Pinkwater worked at agency.com, and even earlier, "in another life" she was a social worker.
In her work for Communicade, Ms. Pinkwater said she was delighted by the technical abilities of interactive shops, but was frustrated by the limited understanding of brand strategy.
"I want to create a new kind of agency that addresses branding, quality of creative and the big picture, and works with ad agencies instead of against them," said Ms. Pinkwater, who added that the staff of 25 was from both traditional advertising and Internet shops
But Ms. Gluck of Jupiter said advertising agencies had not made an easy transition to the Internet. BBDO's stellar creative reputation may have less meaning in the interactive ad world, where the hottest shops started as fledgling independents that have grown up with the Internet, she said.
'A lot of the traditional agencies are very stuck in their ways and not really open to the pace and flexibility that the Internet requires," Ms. Gluck said. "They haven't shifted their mindset."
Still, Ms. Gluck noted that it might be more economical to start up a shop and take talent from the field than to buy a shop outright because the valuations of many interactive shops "are astronomical." Several shops have gone public and there are rumors about more initial public offerings ahead, she said.
For Mr. Campbell -- who said joining @tmosphere felt a little like "being Joe Kennedy before the Court of St. James" -- @tmosphere has an edge because as interactive communications have evolved, they demand classic branding techniques. In their early experimental stages, interactive ads often had a completely different image than traditional (i.e. off-line) advertising and that diffused the message, he said. Interactive advertising -- like all advertising -- must go back to the core image of the brand, and that puts a big creative powerhouse like BBDO at an advantage, he said.
"The tools are different, the medium is different, but what's the same is how you bring a brand to life in a creative powerful way with a big idea," Mr. Campbell said.
Ms. Gluck likened the situation to the 1980's when the big shops gobbled up specialized medical agencies en masse with the growth of consumer health care marketing.
"I think there will be more consolidation among the larger agencies -- I think the traditional agencies are playing catch-up," Ms. Gluck said.
Mr. Katz agreed that consolidation was coming, but said it was premature to discuss. Still, he said, BBDO New York will succeed in the business.
"However it happens, it happens," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (85%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BBDO WORLDWIDE; ATMOSPHERE (AD AGENCY) BBDO NEW YORK (95%); FRITO-LAY INC (85%); VISA INC (84%); MARCHFIRST INC (68%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); VNU MARKETING INFORMATION INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BBDO WORLDWIDE; ATMOSPHERE (AD AGENCY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RANKINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BRANDING (72%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (71%); 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, MIKE; LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS MICHAEL L CAMPBELL (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



658 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Prosperity and Counting: A Time to Sell, Many Holders Say of Funds

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Lately, a lot of investors have found that one of the best things about mutual funds is selling them.
Don Matsanoff, 37, a commercial real estate broker in Columbus, Ohio, cashed out of a Dreyfus mutual fund in July and spent $24,000 of the proceeds on a sport utility vehicle. After enjoying strong returns for much of the 90's, he said, it was time to buy some things he had put off while he let his profits ride.
Most of his money remains in the market, he said, but he would rather take a profit on some of it "and use it for something, than have it sit there and watch it go up and down." 
 Another Columbus real estate broker, Wayne Harer, 47, recently sold about $150,000 in fund shares to pay for home remodeling. He could have obtained a home-equity or other loan, but with three children and college expenses looming, "I wanted to start whittling down that debt," he said.
"I just said, 'I'll take this amount off the table,' " Mr. Harer said.
Amid the market's record highs and volatile moves, many investors have decided to sell some of their funds and use the profit to remodel the bathroom, buy a new washing machine, take that expensive vacation or splurge in some way.
In fact, investors are cashing out stock mutual fund shares at the highest rate in almost a dozen years. Though more money is still flowing into funds than is being taken out, the pace at which people have been selling fund shares has been growing faster than the rate of purchases.
This selling helps to explain the surge in consumer spending on big-ticket items. Higher interest rates usually muzzle spending, but not this year. Home sales have soared, car sales are on pace to set a record, and retail sales have been very strong. By the method that the Federal Government measures things, consumers are spending more than they earn.
Investors typically sell 13 to 17 percent of their stock mutual fund shares in any given year. But that rate has grown substantially, and in July investors redeemed shares from fund companies at an annual rate of 21.8 percent, according to figures released yesterday by the Investment Company Institute, a trade group based in Washington. That is the highest level since December 1987, when investors were still pulling money out in the aftermath of the October crash.
Of course, the fund redemptions are not all being spent on consumer goods. Some proceeds are being reinvested into other funds, or perhaps into Internet stocks or other market darlings. But economists and fund-company executives say those cannot account for the strong pace of redemptions lately.
Many economists say that the giant profits earned in stock portfolios this decade have led individuals to spend far more than they otherwise would, thus helping keep the economy -- and corporate profits -- perking along. They break the "wealth effect" down like this: For every $100 increase in net worth, a consumer will spend at least an additional $3 or $4 a year.
With the recent increases in stock prices, that has translated into big spending gains. Total personal financial assets were $27.6 trillion as of March, nearly double the level at the end of 1992, according to the Federal Reserve. And that does not count gains in home prices. Borrowings against increased home values "influence consumer outlays beyond the effects of gains from financial assets," Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a speech Friday, adding that run-ups in the prices of homes are at least partly related to increases in stock prices.
The growing importance of investment gains means that central bankers "no longer have the luxury to look primarily to the flow of goods and services, as conventionally estimated, when evaluating the macroeconomic environment," Mr. Greenspan said. In other words, central bankers must increasingly wrestle with the value of consumers' stock portfolios, homes and personal debts when setting interest rates.
Though economists agree that investment gains play a large role in consumer spending, they still differ on how significant the effect. A study last month by two officials at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for example, concluded that stock market fluctuations affect current spending but "changes in wealth in this quarter do not portend significant changes in consumption one or more quarters later."
The decision by consumers to keep spending based on their increased asset values is a fragile one. The high rate of mutual-fund withdrawals suggests that consumers have been selling investments at a quick pace to maintain and upgrade their standard of living. Whether those sales continue, especially if the market swoons, could have big implications for the economy.
A. Michael Lipper, chairman of the fund research company Lipper Inc. in Summit, N.J., attributes some of the selling to the aging population. "A fair amount is due to people achieving their retirement" and resetting their financial goals, he said. "People are getting older."
But he also says that many others think the market may be overvalued. "They are reducing their equity commitment," Mr. Lipper said.
The high rate of fund redemptions unnerves John J. Brennan, chief executive of the Vanguard Group, who says he cannot figure why redemption rates would be higher now than during the market's nearly 20 percent selloff a year ago. "That's the mysterious issue now," he said. "People who hung in last year are paring back and taking some risk off the table."
Indeed, investor optimism about the stock market has dropped sharply, according to a Paine Webber Inc. poll of small investors. Optimism is close to the lowest level in three years, with 55 percent of the people surveyed optimistic and 18 percent pessimistic, according to the poll, which was conducted early this month by the Gallup Organization. The sample included 1,004 people with at least $10,000 each in assets to invest. When asked what they thought the market would do in the next three months, 28 percent predicted it would rise and 23 percent said it would fall.
To be sure, a lot more money is still flowing into stock mutual funds than out, buoyed by stable streams of contributions to 401 (k), individual retirement accounts and other such plans, which workers continue to feed each month to get tax breaks. After a rocky period following the market's drop a year ago, net fund sales are strong, if somewhat below the pace of the last two years. By this measure -- investor purchases minus redemptions -- investors poured $61.3 billion into stock funds in the second quarter and an additional $12.3 billion last month, according to the Investment Company Institute.
As the popularity of mutual fund "supermarkets" like that offered by Charles Schwab & Company has grown, some redemptions have gone into other mutual funds, though economists say they doubt this accounts for much of the rise in recent months. "Supermarkets have been around awhile" and can account for only a small part of the sudden increase in stock fund redemptions, said John Rea, the chief economist of the Investment Company Institute. Moreover, investor switching within the same fund families has stayed at about the same pace, as a percentage of total fund assets, for a half-dozen years, by the trade group's tally.
Some money from some redemptions is going into other investments, including individual stocks, as investors take advantage of low commissions available through on-line trading. In fact, the longstanding trend of investors selling shares of individual stocks slowed in the first quarter after having risen sharply for many years, according to data from the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Matsanoff, for example, the commercial real estate broker from Columbus, has transferred some money from funds to individual stocks in hopes of getting better returns. The fund he sold last month was performing well. "But my individual stocks were performing better," he said. "So when I decided which one I should pick in order to write a check for the truck, I thought my mutual fund was the way to go."
He is quick to say that he is not part of the on-line revolution, preferring the advice of his investment adviser, Donald L. Sazdanoff, of Sovereign Asset Management in Lexington, Ohio. "I see people getting killed" through Internet trading, he said. "I'd rather get the right advice from a professional than try to make a decision based on limited time for research."
Although consumer debt levels and personal bankruptcies remain high, many consumers have paid down debt recently or chosen to pay for new purchases with cash rather than credit -- a trend also attributed in part to the strong stock market. In a report this month, Moody's Investors Service said that in the second quarter consumers paid off the highest percentage of their credit card debt in a decade and that credit card delinquency rates fell in June to their lowest monthly level since April 1996.
But even as the rising stock market has helped propel the economy and strengthen the financial condition of the typical American household, "it's a two-edged sword," said David M. Jones, chief economist of Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a New York bond dealer.
"If the stock market gets out of control, then there's a danger that spending will be excessive," Mr. Jones said. "And that will put undue pressure on the labor market and kick off cost-and-price pressures, forcing the Fed to tighten more than it might,"
"That could be a rude awakening," he added, "for the stock market, and consumers' balance sheets."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Wall Street Profits Spark the Economy"
Mutual fund holders are taking out lots of cash -- one reason Americans are spending more than they earn and buying more big-ticket items, like houses. Graph tracks cash withdrawn as a percentage of total assets, year-over-year change in disposable income and in spending, and existing home sales, since 1985. (Sources: Investment Company Institute; Haver Analytics; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT CO PLC (63%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); STOCK REDEMPTIONS (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); BONDS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); INTEREST RATES (64%); RETAIL SALES (62%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR ALAN GREENSPAN (61%); WAYNE HARER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



659 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Republic Services Warns of Weak Earnings

BYLINE: By Dow Jones 

 BODY:
Shares of Republic Services Inc. fell 32.6 percent in heavy trading yesterday after the company, a Florida-based waste collection concern, said that 1999 earnings would fall below analysts' estimates.
Republic closed down $5.375, to $11.125, on volume of about 16.9 million shares, which compared with average daily volume of about 800,000. Republic was the most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. 
 Marc H. Sulam, an analyst for the Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation, noted that Republic's announcement came at an unfortunate time for the company and for the industry because of the uncertainty caused by Waste Management Inc., the industry leader. Since early July, Waste Management has changed management and lowered its profit outlook.
Late last week the much smaller Capital Environmental Resources said it was having trouble getting credit.
Now Republic Services, one of the most highly regarded companies in the industry, with H. Wayne Huizenga as its chairman, has released negative news. Early yesterday, the company said in a conference call to analysts that earnings for 1999, excluding charges, would be $1.17 to $1.19 a share, below the $1.25 that was expected by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Republic reported pro forma profit of $1.01 in 1998.
Republic said that it was taking longer than expected to bring certain acquisitions, especially assets bought from Waste Management, up to its performance standards. Republic officials said that integrating the hauling operations purchased from Waste Management had presented the major challenge. The company, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., also said it was dealing with higher interest costs on its publicly issued debt.
On the call, executives said that the performance of Republic Services' base business was on target and that local economies in which the company operated were strong.
But analysts lowered their earnings views for the company for this year as well as for 2000.
Republic continues to seek large acquisitions but will scrutinize them more closely, the executives said. "The process is fine," said James E. O'Connor, the chief executive.
Republic said that its core business continued to perform as expected and that it expected internal growth of 6 percent to 8 percent for the year.
Mr. Sulam lowered his earnings estimates to $1.18 from $1.25 for 1999 and to a range of $1.35 to $1.40 from $1.50 for next year, but maintained his buy rating on the stock. Referring to the company conference call, he said management was able to help analysts "understand that the problems weren't at its core operations."
Michael Hoffman, an analyst for the Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, lowered his 1999 earnings estimate for Republic to $1.18 a share from $1.25 and to $1.40 from $1.50 for 2000. He kept his buy rating on the stock but lowered his price target to $25 from $30. Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown cuts its rating to buy from strong buy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (94%); WM (NYSE) (84%); BIN (TSX) (56%); BIN (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (94%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (94%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (94%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (94%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (84%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC SERVICES INC REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (94%); WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); PROGRESSIVE WASTE SOLUTIONS LTD (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLIC SERVICES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); 

PERSON: JAMES E O'CONNOR (58%); MICHAEL J HOFFMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



660 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares Fall onRevived Fear Of an Interest Rate Increase

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices fell for the third consecutive session yesterday, pulled down by worries that in early October the Federal Reserve may increase short-term interest rates for a third time this year.
A stronger-than-expected report on new-home sales for July and an earnings warning from a big personal automobile insurer combined to raise anxiety during morning trading. A selloff in the bond market, which pushed yields on long-term Treasury bonds to 6.05 percent, compounded the worries. 
 The result was a broad decline in equity prices, one that sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its biggest loss in nearly six weeks and battered financial service and transportation stocks. The S.& P. 500 fell 24.25 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,324.02.
The Dow Jones industrial averagedropped 176.04 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,914.13. Financial stocks like American Express and J. P. Morgan accounted for much of the drop.
Big losses in American International Group, the multinational insurance company, Bank of America and America Online generated the biggest loss in the S.& P. 500 index since July 20.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite shed 46.21 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,712.69.
With many investors on vacation, trading volume was light: on the New York Stock Exchange, about 610 million shares changed hands.
Still, traders and analysts were not willing to say the lack of activity was a positive sign for the market.
"A lot of people will say that because volume is light this selloff doesn't mean anything," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "I am not so sure. I told our clients this morning that this week is important."
Mr. Meehan and others are concerned that if reports later in the week -- particularly the August employment data, due on Friday -- portray an economy that is showing few signs of slowing down, the Federal Reserve Board will be forced to raise short-term interest rates again in early October.
The shift in sentiment, which the new-home sales numbers helped to promote, comes only days after most traders seemed convinced that last week's rate increase by the Fed was the last of the year.
"To me, this is just a replay of the cycle we played out in June, the last time the Fed bumped rates," said Michael Clarm, head of United States stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston.
"We went into that increase with tremendous negative sentiment, and we did the same thing going in to last week. Now the anticipation is gone and we are still wondering if there is another hike down the road."
In addition to the threat posed by higher interest rates, insurance and financial service company stocks were hurt by an announcement late Friday from the Progressive Corporation, the nation's fourth-largest personal automobile insurer, that it would miss earnings estimates for the third quarter.
Progressive, an S.& P. component, fell 16 1/4, to 102 3/4.
The announcement dragged down other insurance company stocks.
Allstate, the largest publicly traded car insurer, fell 1 13/16, to 33 11/16. And the Safeco Corporation lost 1 9/16, to 34 5/8.
Diversified financial service company stocks also slumped. The Standard & Poor's financial stock index fell 5.34 points, or 3.9 percent, to 130.36. Citigroup fell 2 1/4 to 44 3/4. American Express dropped 4 15/16, to 139 11/16. General Electric, parent of GE Capital, fell 2 5/16, to 114 1/4. And J. P. Morgan lost 3, to 130 3/4.
By contrast, it was a pretty good day for drug stocks. Bristol-Myers Squibb gained 5/8, to 72 1/4. Eli Lilly rose 1 1/8, to 76 3/8. Pfizer rose 1/4, to 38 7/8.
Technology shares, including many Internet companies, fell after AT&T, following similar moves by MCI WorldCom and Sprint, announced the introduction of a discount long-distance rate. AT&T fell 1 1/2, to 46. MCI/Worldcom dropped 2 7/16, to 76 1/16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); AOL INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N WILLIAM MEEHAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



661 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Renewed Interest Rate Worries Send Treasury Prices Down

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond yields rose sharply yesterday on investor fears that the Federal Reserve would increase short-term rates again in the coming months as evidence of a strong economy continues to mount.
By late in the day, in trading volume that was lighter than normal, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 1 3/32, to 101, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.05 percent, from 5.97 percent on Friday. It was the highest level since Aug. 16, when the yield was 6.08 percent. 
 With investors growing cautious, the market's tone has shifted more toward selling rallies, traders said. Also weighing on the market was concern about the supply of new debt issues, as corporate treasurers scramble to sell securities before the end of the year. The reluctance among investors to buy bonds as the year wears on could lead to rising rates, as investors seek some reward for the higher risk to which they feel they might be exposed if Year 2000 problems occur.
"The massive supply of corporate debt has added to the liquidity squeeze," said Sung Won Sohn, senior vice president and chief economic officer at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "When corporations issue debt, the underwriters selling that debt reduce their exposure to losses by hedging those transactions."
Securities dealers of corporate transactions often sell or swap Treasuries ahead of these debt offerings, adding to the available supply of Government securities and thus placing upward pressure on rates. The securities dealers then buy back Treasuries when the corporate paper is in the hands of investors. The corporate supply calendar, however, is sparse this week, before an expected flood of issuance after the Labor Day weekend.
While the Fed has signaled that it may be finished raising rates for now, the door is not completely shut on further increases should the economy not show signs of slowing. Yesterday's report on new-home sales in July took an unexpected rise to its second-highest level on record, as sales rose one-tenth of 1 percent to an annualized rate of 980,000 units. Some analysts had expected 910,000. The increase trailed only November 1998's annual pace of 985,000.
Mr. Sohn of Wells Fargo, citing labor shortages, the weakening dollar, economic expansion abroad and a big rise in oil prices, said that the Fed "is not finished with tightening."
Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns Securities, thinks that bonds are vulnerable this week to the August National Association of Purchasing Management report, which is due out on Wednesday and which is expected to show a rebound after the outsized July decline, as well as to the closely watched employment and payroll report, scheduled for Friday.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.768	97.477	High Rate	4.87%	4.99%	Coupon Yield	5.01%	5.20%	Low Rate	4.82%	4.94%	Median Rate	4.86%	4.97%	Total applied for	$28,013,656	$27,327,100	Accepted	$11,462,156	$12,040,550	Noncompetitive	$1,383,679	$1,186,338	
 
Both issues are dated Sept. 2, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 2, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on March 2, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); US LABOR DAY (68%); LABOR SHORTAGES (63%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (52%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT WELLS FARGO & CO (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



662 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Prosperity and Counting;
Stock Prices Aren't Forcing Fed's Hand

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo. Aug. 28

 BODY:
Like the narrator in a Greek drama, Yutaka Yamaguchi, deputy governor of Japan's central bank, took the lectern here and sadly described how the booming Japanese economy in the late 1980's came to tragedy. His description of Japan at its peak sounded eerily parallel to America in today's still evolving boom.
"A question haunts us to this day," Mr. Yamaguchi said. Would different policies have prevented the terrible crash of Japan's stock market and real estate prices and the decadelong recession that has followed? "With hindsight," he said, "such excellent performance was unsustainable." 
 Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, listened from the front row of long, narrow tables in the hotel conference room. Gene Sperling, President Clinton's chief assistant for economic policy, sat in the next row, just behind Mr. Greenspan. And most of the Fed's top policy makers -- the men and women with their hands on the crucial levers of the economy that control short-term interest rates -- were scattered through the crowded hall, with its invitation-only audience of prominent economists and high-level foreign officials.
The Federal Reserve's annual two-day gathering at Jackson Lake Lodge, across a vast green meadow and sparkling lake from the breathtaking Tetons range, has evolved from an informal get-together organized by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City as a late August escape for central bankers into a high-powered forum for debating the issues that shape economies around the world. The big topic this year was the ever-rising American stock market. And almost as if they were staging a play, the Fed officials chose to act out, through research papers and speeches, how they were coping with its hard-to-control impact.
Mr. Yamaguchi played the heavy. Reviewing all that the Bank of Japan had done and failed to do, he left open the possibility that the Fed might also make mistakes, falling victim to roughly the same forces that brought down Japan in 1990.
"If there is a bubble in the American stock market," he said in an interview, "the outcome is difficult to predict when it collapses."
But if Mr. Yamaguchi's narration was foreboding, many of the Americans here said the last act of their own drama would end differently. The Japanese lesson has been well learned, they say. Further, the financial system in the United States, after its own wrenching changes early this decade, does not suffer from the debt problems that were Japan's real undoing after its stock market bubble burst. American real estate is nowhere near as inflated as Japanese property in the late 80's when, on the eve of the collapse, the land under Tokyo's Imperial Palace was supposedly worth more than all of California.
And if Wall Street crashes? Well, the Fed stands ready to minimize the damage, particularly with Mr. Greenspan still at the helm. After all, in the October 1987 market debacle, his skills in this department were aptly demonstrated.
"In all the discussion about crashes, we forget that the Greenspan Fed will react," said Mark Gertler, a New York University economist and the co-author, with Ben Bernanke of Princeton, of a new research paper that outlines how a central bank should proceed, particularly in the presence of very high stock prices. The Fed commissioned the study after learning that the research by Mr. Gertler and Mr. Bernanke reflected the thinking of Fed policy makers.
Mr. Greenspan carried his own suitcase when he came to these annual conferences in his early days as Fed chairman. Now, he moves about with an entourage of Secret Service agents. He has become a bigger-than-life figure in American public life, getting considerable credit for the nation's prosperity in recent years but likely to be the target of considerable blame if things go wrong.
So well known is his face that several of the tourists who shared the hotel with the conference delegates got as big a kick out of sighting Mr. Greenspan in the lobby as they did sighting moose from the hotel's huge back veranda.
"There is an increasing need to integrate into our macro models more complete descriptions of the responses of households and businesses to risk," Mr. Greenspan said in a speech on Friday, referring to the risks people take in buying stocks and real estate when prices are rising.
Stock prices in particular have become an increasingly significant subject of discussion at the Fed's periodic, closed-door policy meetings, where interest rates are set. "As time goes on," said Edward W. Kelley Jr., a Fed governor, "different parts of the economy have a greater impact than others. It was oil in the 70's, the very high dollar in the 80's, and there is little question that in today's world, the stock market is a very important component of the overall economy."
What role should the stock market play in shaping central bank policies? According to Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Gertler, the Fed quite correctly sets a flexible inflation target, an average to be achieved that now appears to be roughly 2 percent. Indeed, that is close to the actual annual rise in the Consumer Price Index these days. When inflation drifts above this level, or seems to be in the process of doing so, the Fed, in line with flexible inflation fighting, generally pushes up rates to try to slow the economy. And when economic conditions change in ways that suggest the inflation rate will fall below the target, rates are usually pushed down to stimulate borrowing and spending.
Always the output of goods and services is kept in mind: if the demand exceeds the potential supply, then rates go up, and if the opposite occurs, they go down.
Stock prices themselves, in this approach, should never be a target of interest rate policy. And in the Fed's deliberations, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Gertler concluded, inflation has been the target, a point Mr. Greenspan also made in his speech here. Stock prices have been dealt with only as one component of inflation -- along with rising wages, shifting oil prices and the changing value of the dollaramong others.
Rising stock prices can feed through to inflation by making people feel wealthier, and companies, too. They spend or invest the new wealth or borrow against it and spend the borrowings. Demand rises and, if it exceeds the capability of the economy to deliver more goods and services, eventually the inflation rate should rise, too.
But are stock prices too high? They have risen, on average, 25 percent a year for five years, an unprecedented run. Or has the United States entered a new era of greater efficiency and profitability that justifies the higher prices?
Put another way, is the spending that emanates from rising stock prices excessive and inflationary? A number of the people here said so off the record, outside the conference room. Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues, however, insist that they do not know. And in that Hamlet-like failure to decide may lie the makings of a painful mistake: namely the Fed's failure to raise interest rates sufficiently to counteract the inflationary pressures coming from overvalued stocks, but not yet evident in the inflation numbers.
Japan fell into this mistake, Mr. Yamaguchi said. "The C.P.I. stayed close to zero for three years through 1988, while real growth accelerated to 5 percent per year from less than 4 percent in the early 1980's," he said. The impression grew that interest rates, in the absence of visible inflation, would stay low. And with Japanese interest rates low, the vision of healthy economic growth stretching endlessly into the future -- a vision popular in America today -- kept stock and real estate prices rising.
"The lag between rapid growth and the eventual rise in inflation happened to be longer," Mr. Yamaguchi said. "but the linkage didn't disappear."
When inflation did finally materialize, the Bank of Japan pushed up interest rates, giving the false impression, Mr. Yamaguchi said, that Japan had fallen into the most fatal flaw of all: pushing up rates to puncture the stock market bubble and not simply to fight inflation. "We have never targeted asset prices," Mr. Yamaguchi insisted.
Many outsiders disagree, arguing that Japanese officials left the clear impression at the time that they intended through higher interest rates to ease down the stock market because they feared the consequences of the market bubble.
Whatever the case, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Gertler furnished a happier ending for America. Stick to inflation targeting, they say, and if there is a stock market bubble, let it burst. Acting much more quickly than the Japanese did, the Fed will reverse course, lowering interest rates and encouraging lending, thus minimizing the damage. The main potential damage is from falling prices (deflation) and from the unwillingness of frightened lenders to keep lending.
"If you think that over-reaction is a source of panic, confidence is restored if the private sector sees that the Fed will react," Mr. Gertler said, arguing that Mr. Greenspan's quick actions after the stock market crash in 1987 and the Russian default last year demonstrated his crisis skills.
"If people have confidence that the Fed will stabilize the economy," Mr. Gertler said, "that in itself will be a stabilizing force."
Equally important, American banks are far healthier than Japan's in 1990, without the mountain of bad debt, chiefly in real estate, that Japan's market crash revealed. That in itself will diminish the damage from a sharp decline in stocks, Mr. Gertler and Mr. Bernanke argued. And Mr. Yamaguchi agreed.
Still, a nagging worry remained. Is there more indebtedness and danger of default than the conference presenters acknowledged, perhaps among homeowners, hedge funds or other investors in the stock market?
Andrew Crockett, general manager of the Bank for International Settlements, raised that possibility. "Unpredictable things can happen," he said. "If there is a bubble and it breaks, people can turn out to have debts you did not realize were there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wayne Harer, a real estate broker in Columbus, Ohio, sold $150,000 in fund shares to pay for home remodeling. "I just said, 'I'll take this amount off the table,' " he said. (J. Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The Fed has dealt with soaring stocks as only one among a number of components in inflation, according to research by the economists Ben Bernanke, left, of Princeton and Mark Gertler of New York University. (Olie Riniker for The New York Times)(pg. C9)
 
Graph: "Will Wall Street Ever Suffer The Same Fate as Japan?"
In the late 1980's, Japan's stock market soared far above the market in the United States. But after Tokyo came crashing back to earth, Wall Street kept climbing. Some experts are worried that the American stock market will eventually follow the same path Japan's did, bringing the economy down with it. But others argue that the United States will avoid Japan's mistakes and that America's economy is better prepared to cope with a stock market crash -- if one should occur. Graph tracks the Nikkei Index and the Dow Jones Industrials, since 1980. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (66%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); TRENDS (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; GREENSPAN, ALAN; BERNANKE, BEN; GERTLER, MARK; YAMAGUCHI, YUTAKA ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



663 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: White House Seekers Wear Faith on Sleeve and Stump

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

 BODY:
Presidential candidates have always made a point of having themselves photographed as they step out of church on Sunday, carrying a Bible perhaps, and shaking the minister's hand.
But in the early campaign for the 2000 elections, the rite of political piety has moved far beyond the sacramental photo opportunity. The candidates are engaging in "God talk" that is more explicit, more intimate and more pervasive than at any time in recent decades, historians and political analysts say. 
 In a Houston church, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas describes his decision to "recommit my life to Jesus Christ." At a convention of black Baptists, Vice President Al Gore declares himself "a child of the Kingdom and a person of strong faith." And at a prayer breakfast in Philadelphia, Elizabeth Dole recounts a talk she had with God.
This is now common language on the campaign trail.
"In this Presidential contest there is much more discussion of personal faith than there has been in the past," said John C. Green, who studies how politics intersect religion as director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, in Ohio.
"I suppose if you went far back enough in American history you'd probably find a year like this one," Mr. Green said. "But if you just think of the last 20 years, more candidates are talking more openly about their personal faith now."
The phenomenon is not confined to politics. This is an era in which public figures of all kinds are "coming out" about their private spirituality. Madonna gives interviews about studying cabala, or Jewish mysticism. The singer Lauryn Hill brings a Bible on stage to accept a Grammy award and reads a psalm aloud. The actors Richard Gere and Harrison Ford meditate at a Tibetan Buddhist ritual led by the Dalai Lama.
Politics, however, has its own rhythms, and there are particular reasons that candidates are now waving the flag of faith. The most urgent one, political analysts agree, is that in a nation weary of White House scandal, candidates must find ways to signal that they can be trusted behind the Oval Office doors.
"It's driven by the post-Monica hangover, almost like a drunk reaching for the black coffee," a Bush adviser said.
Thomas C. Reeves, a historian at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside, in Kenosha, and the author of "A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy" (The Free Press, 1991), said that the candidates "are trying to distance themselves from the squalor of the Clintons."
"The language itself isn't new at all," Mr. Reeves said. "James Garfield and Rutherford B. Hayes made the point that they were church members and spoke very staunchly about their faith, their church affiliations and the union of God and country. They did it because the politics of the gilded age were so squalid and so corrupt. Candidates, then and now, are trying to say that they stand above the mess that people perceive."
Both Mr. Bush, a Republican, and Mr. Gore, a Democrat, promote charities run by churches and religious organizations as an antidote to Government welfare. But this is not the first time that candidates have linked piety and public policy, Mr. Reeves said. Abolition of slavery, Prohibition, even Theodore Roosevelt's environmentalism were all proclaimed "godly" policies, he said.
But right now, the Presidential contenders are responding to polls showing that Americans are focused on immorality as the basis of many social ills. Asked whether they were more concerned about the nation's moral problems or economic problems, 58 percent of Americans said moral problems, while 38 percent said economic ones, according to a poll of 1,022 adults in a CNN/Gallup survey conducted in February.
"This has something to do with the Presidential scandals, and the school shootings like the one in Littleton," Mr. Green said. "There is a sense of disquiet in the land, and I think these candidates have picked this up in their polling, in talking to people. And when people are faced with existential issues, they tend to turn back to religion, and that's not just conservatives, it's everybody. Religion is a source of moral grounding."
Republican candidates in particular know they must find ways to appeal to the crucial evangelical voting bloc. For candidates like Gary L. Bauer, Steve Forbes, Patrick J. Buchanan and Alan Keyes, this is no challenge; they stand with religious conservatives firmly against abortion and homosexuality and for organized school prayer.
But for a candidate like Mr. Bush, playing to the center on those issues, his frequent religious testimony is "almost like a surrogate for the more hard-edged moral agenda of the party," said the adviser, who put Mr. Bush's position this way:
"What he is doing is like saying to the social conservative wing, 'I can't say everything you want me to say, or propose everything you want me to propose, but I want you to know that in my heart or in my soul, I'm where you are personally. And what I can accomplish, I will accomplish, and you can trust that.' In the end, I think that formula will work, that he will be able to get his fair market share of religious activists in the primaries."
Michael Cromartie, a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center in Washington, said, "A little bit of religiosity can cover a multitude of sins, and it can cover a multitude of political sins.
"You can see it with Elizabeth Dole," Mr. Cromartie said. "A lot of religious conservative folk are really unimpressed with her ability to waffle on just about everything, but when they hear her talking religious language, they think, 'She may not be clear on abortion, and on a multitude of other issues I care about, but she loves Jesus.' "
Not all the God talk can be chalked up to mere posturing. Many of this crop of candidates are churchgoers who say they read the Bible regularly and look to God and Scripture for guidance. Mrs. Dole, long before she or her husband were Presidential candidates, gave speeches "witnessing" her turn toward God. After his Army service in Vietnam, Mr. Gore attended divinity school briefly. And Mr. Bush says his faith in God is what helped him give up alcohol.
When Mr. Gore summoned religion writers to the White House in May, he was asked whether he was trying to reclaim religion from the conservatives. "No," he said, "I'm just trying to be who I am."
One unspoken rule is that the only candidates who benefit by emphasizing their religious bona fides are Protestants. Michael S. Dukakis, of Greek Orthodox heritage and married to a Jew, avoided religious talk. John F. Kennedy, the only Roman Catholic President, had to deflect slurs about handing over the country to Vatican control. Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Keyes, both Catholics, use religious language that is indistinct from that of evangelical Protestants.
The evangelical talk of being "born again" that was greeted as exotic back in 1976 when used by Jimmy Carter is now commonplace. Jesse Jackson, an ordained minister and perennial Presidential candidate, helped make religious talk a campaign standard. And Mr. Clinton, a Southern Baptist, has displayed an ease with evangelical language and Biblical references that he put to use in his campaigns and as President.
It is paradoxical, says Nathan O. Hatch, professor of history and provost at the University of Notre Dame, that religious talk is so commonplace as the nation becomes increasingly religiously and ethnically diverse. "It's a far more diverse culture, so there's far less one can assume" about morality and religion, Mr. Hatch said.
Nevertheless, said Mr. Reeves, the historian, invoking "American civil religion, one nation under God, is almost a prerequisite" for a Presidential candidate today. "The public eats it up," he said.
"Wouldn't it be wonderful if you saw a candidate come along now who said, 'I'm an atheist,' just for a change of pace?" Mr. Reeves said. And what chance would that candidate have of winning?
"None," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%); TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); OHIO, USA (55%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%); AKRON, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; PUBLIC OPINION; CNN/GALLUP POLL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RELIGION (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ETHICS (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (74%); MEDITATION (74%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MUSIC (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (63%); 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); MADONNA (66%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); DALAI LAMA (57%); ELIZABETH DOLE (57%); HARRISON FORD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



664 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Light-Years And a Bridge Of Separation

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
THE young ones are coming bigger, hitting harder, learning faster. From one end of the summer to another, London to New York, Mirjana Lucic schooled a former Harvard student on the existential differences between plucky challengers and aspiring champions, between opposite ends of the Whitestone Bridge.
Erika de Lone had pushed Lucic deep into a third Wimbledon set just two months ago in the first round of the tall Croatian teen-ager's run to her semifinal defeat by Steffi Graf. De Lone returned home to her best tennis summer ever, to become authentic queen of a gritty Bronx court. Then she walked onto Court 11 yesterday at the National Tennis Center, and it was all too clear that she was in the wrong borough, half a foot smaller than her opponent, in over her head at the United States Open. Against all reasonable laws of main-draw probability, Lucic was waiting for de Lone again, more poised, better prepared, still growing. 
 "It's amazing how much the tour has changed," de Lone said after Lucic had hammered out a 6-3, 6-3 victory. "When I first came on eight years ago, it was pretty much Seles and Capriati. Now you have so much depth, so many players, all these Europeans, so many big, strong players who are really cracking the ball."
It can be enough to send a woman who stands under 5 feet 7 inches tall and weighs 135 pounds to places where she can find someone her own size, where Darwin doesn't always dole out the prize money and computer ranking points. And this is how 26-year-old Erika de Lone of Lincoln, Mass., recently discovered another side of the tennis city, how she came to conquer the Bronx.
"It wasn't luxury like this, what you get used to," she said, making a sweeping gesture outside Court 11. "But the fans came out. The tennis was good."
Her pre-Open tuneup was the GHI Bronx Challenger, a satellite event in what is the tennis equivalent of the minor leagues. The site was Crotona Park, a short drive from the Third Avenue exit of the Cross Bronx Expressway. Here there were no fancy food courts, no parking lot full of luxury cars. The fans came in from the neighborhood on foot, for free. The kids came from all over town, courtesy of the New York Junior Tennis League. The players were bused up from Manhattan, on a yellow school bus that de Lone didn't have to ride because she'd brought her car.
She found a room at the Roosevelt Hotel at 45th and Madison for $133, a bargain compared to the $350 they wanted at the Parker-Meridian, which refused to extend her the Open player rate until the Open actually began. This is not a consideration for Venus Williams, but de Lone had to hustle everywhere she could to earn $53,137 in 1998. When Els Callens of the Netherlands retired from their Bronx Challenger final, it was worth $8,800 to her 1999 bank account, and a qualifier's place in the Open draw.
She had nine break points yesterday against Lucic and converted none. The match came and went, like the smell of hamburger wafting from close by. Still, it was the Open. It was another chance to step into a fantasy before it slips through her fingers, like sand at the beach. Her run from the Bronx was worth this one afternoon in Queens, against a 17-year-old who is supposed to be going all the places that Erika de Lone is not.
She dropped out of Harvard after her freshman year, with the support of her parents, who agreed that tennis was "now or never." Her older sister, Amy, played briefly on the tour. She has a younger half sister and half brother who are nationally ranked juniors. She's "taking this where it goes," though to reach her career-best ranking of 85, de Lone has had to win four Challenger events this year.
"I'm playing better than I ever have," she said, "but the players are so much stronger now, too."
The day she can't stand to wake up in a hotel room will be the day she starts thinking about returning to Harvard, about an economics degree. She realizes that day is coming, because more and more, the early round opponents are 6-foot sluggers, whether they are named Lucic or not.
While de Lone told her story outside Court 11, Amelie Mauresmo was powering forehands, impressively warming up for her first-round match. Venus Williams was about to bring her special athleticism into Arthur Ashe Stadium. Little sister Serena and Alexandra Stevenson will be out there belting winners tonight. It doesn't take a Harvard study to recognize what is happening in women's tennis, to know where the bridge to the future goes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Erika de Lone (Bernie Nunez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: BRONX CHALLENGER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); LUXURY GOODS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); 

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999



665 of 665 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 5;National Desk

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: As Students Return, Schools Cope With Severe Shortage of Teachers

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
As children across the United States swarm back to school, principals from Washington to Palm Beach County, Fla., and from Houston to Los Angeles say they are struggling through the worst teacher shortage in recent memory. They describe being whipsawed by swelling enrollments and a push to reduce class sizes at a time when more teachers are retiring.
The problem is not one of overall supply: Nationwide, there are at least 180,000 recent graduates with teaching degrees and about 80,000 veterans looking for new jobs, enough to fill the estimated 200,000 teaching vacancies posted in the nation's public schools since last school year, experts said. 
The driving issues are geography and expertise.
Teachers in states where there are sometimes hundreds of applicants for one job, including Minnesota and Wisconsin, have been largely unwilling to move to those states most in need, including Texas and California. And even those teachers game for a change of scenery are often untrained in the subjects where shortages are greatest: mathematics, science, bilingual studies and special education, perhaps the most challenging assignment for teachers.
"It really is true that at this point, more districts are feeling the increase in demand," said Linda Darling-Hammond, a professor of education at Stanford University and the director of the National Commission on Teaching and America's Future, a private organization that has studied the issue. "In some cases they haven't planned ahead and done aggressive recruiting, and in others there really is a shortfall."
The impact has been felt in places large and small, from Texas, where there are an estimated 20,000 openings, to Belle Glade, Fla., a tiny city of migrant farm workers near Palm Beach, which was still searching for two first-grade teachers yesterday, two weeks after the school year began.
In pursuit of teachers, to say nothing of those trained in specific subjects, districts and states have stepped up the competition in ways that mirror the private sector and were unheard of even five years ago.
This summer, Washington began offering $1,000 signing bonuses to applicants certified to teach in the general classroom, $2,000 for those with a background in special education and $3,000 for anyone demonstrating proficiency in special education and an additional specialty. These incentives come on top of a $3,700 increase in starting salaries, to $31,000 this fall, and assorted other sweeteners like $500 for relocation assistance and $250 for school supplies.
In Texas, desperate districts persuaded the Legislature to approve a measure permitting them to rehire recent retirees, while allowing the retirees to keep drawing pensions.
And in the New Haven Unified School District in Union City, Calif., a district of 14,000 students outside of Oakland, the effort to attract out-of-town talent has become so sophisticated that candidates are directed to the nearest Kinko's copy shop to be linked live with district recruiters over video-conferencing lines.
"We just hired a special ed teacher from New York through the video interviewing," said Jim O'Laughlin, the personnel director for the district. "We've met her on TV, which is the same as sitting across the table."
In New York City -- which has tended to be among the last districts in the nation to complete its hiring each year, limiting its choices -- three early job fairs and a statewide recruiting push have paid a dividend. Officials of the city Board of Education said they believed they had hired enough teachers to reduce class sizes to 25, from about 28, in grades four through eight in its 40 lowest-performing schools.
But administrators said they had all but abandoned the goal of replacing hundreds of unlicensed math, science and special-education teachers in those schools and elsewhere because of a shortage of qualified candidates.
Across the country, numerous factors have conspired to place other districts in similar straits.
The nation's public-school population continues to bulge, with enrollment, which stood at about 50 million students in 1995, expected to reach 54.3 million by 2007, said Dr. Darling-Hammond of Stanford.
To meet that need, districts have to add 300,000 teachers, raising the number of teachers nationwide to 3.3 million by 2007, from 3 million in 1995, she said.
But that effort is already being hobbled by retirements because nearly one million teachers are between the ages of 45 and 53, with hundreds of thousands expected to retire when they reach 55, if not sooner. In New York City alone, union officials estimate that many of the 17,000 teachers who are eligible will retire after this school year.
And then there is the widening movement to reduce class sizes. In California, for example, a mandate to hold class sizes to 20 in kindergarten through third grade and in ninth-grade English and math has been expanded this year to include eighth-grade English.
That effort is having an effect on the quality of teachers hired, in part to meet such goals.
Kris Marubayashi, the associate director of the California Center for Teaching Careers, a state agency, said that about 1 out of 10 teachers hired there did not have the proper credentials. In many cases, she said, districts have been hiring candidates they rejected earlier.
"That's the sad story," Ms. Marubayashi said. "But you have to have someone in front of the class."
The Los Angeles Unified School District, which has hired 1,658 teachers for the school year that starts in two weeks, still has 2,500 vacancies, district officials said. Of those hired, 58 percent do not have teaching credentials, the district said.
Many teachers were hired based solely on their experience leading church or camping groups, said Antonio Garcia, the district's director of recruitment.
"We picked a lot of the field dry last year," Mr. Garcia said.
Indeed, in combing the nation's young work force for teachers, districts are often hopelessly outgunned in a thriving economy by technology and other companies that can sometimes triple a starting teacher's salary. School districts compete not only with each other, but also with private industry for the same dwindling pool of students who choose to major in science or math -- and who may choose a business close to home, rather than a classroom far away.
The teachers who specialize in the subjects that are in demand often would have to move thousands of miles to the nearest available job. That is because the surpluses of teachers tend to be clustered in the Midwest, where enrollment is growing more slowly, while the vacancies are elsewhere, often in states and inner-city districts that have experienced an influx of immigrants.
Further aggravating the crisis, students who commit to teaching while they are in college tend to choose elementary education, English or biology, or other subjects in which the demand is less acute. "A fairly high percentage of people who do graduate from teacher prep programs, it may be upwards of 40 percent, don't go into teaching," said Elizabeth Fideler, the executive vice president and chief operating officer of Recruiting New Teachers, a Massachusetts firm that works with states and districts.
Texas has been trying to turn back the clock to fill its vacancies -- an estimated 20,000 statewide, 300 of them in Houston alone.
Under an article imploring "adults 50 and older" to learn more about communicating via computer, the Aug. 26 edition of the Teacher Retirement System News beckons retirees of the Texas school system to "return to teaching on as much as a full-time basis."
Under a recently enacted state law, the retirees must be qualified in a shortage area, and have been out of the classroom for as long as 12 months, to keep their pension payments flowing. State officials had no immediate sense of how many retirees had taken districts up on the offer.
But such measures will not be necessary at Indiantown Middle School in Indiantown, Fla., near Okeechobee, which needed to hire 17 teachers this year. The school, hoping to reduce class sizes and to combat low test scores, succeeded in filling all jobs.
"Recruiting was very difficult this year because there is such a shortage out there," said Debra Harper, the school principal. "We had to go outside the county and even the state. Florida was a major draw for some teachers, and location helped us bring them down here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: September 1, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about teacher shortages in the United States referred imprecisely to the place where cash bonuses of up to $3,000 each are being offered to prospective teachers. It is Washington, D.C., not Washington State.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Teachers at Indiantown Middle School in Indiantown, Fla., at a recent orientation. The school needed to hire 17 additional teachers this year. (Bill Ingram/Palm Beach Post)(pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (72%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (74%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); FARM LABOR (66%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: LINDA DARLING-HAMMOND (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999

 
