

1 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1567 words

HEADLINE: The Increasing Allure Of Faraway Fairways

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
INVERNESS, Nova Scotia -- John MacIsaac was once among nearly 900 workers who descended into the coal mines at the edge of this isolated seaside town, plunging 2,500 feet beneath the ocean floor to labor in a labyrinth of dark tunnels.
''When I would come back up, occasionally there would be a tourist wanting a picture of this person so covered in black coal dust, only the whites of my eyes showed,'' MacIsaac said. ''Now when I go back to that very same spot, people are taking my picture next to a brand-new, picturesque golf course. Who dreams of such a thing?''
The golf industry worldwide is asking the same thing. The course that opened Friday in this remote and economically depressed part of northwestern Nova Scotia is not a little pitch-and-putt for the 1,800 residents who remained after the coal mines shut down. Cabot Links -- one of a handful of new courses opening in North America this year -- is a resort-quality, high-end layout designed to be a true links golf course, a boutique category of oceanside golf architecture exceedingly rare outside the British Isles. 
But why put it here, several hundred miles and a time zone from any large metropolitan city and a lonesome three-and-a-half-hour drive in a rental car from Nova Scotia's lone major airport?
In golf, it seems, remote is the new luxury.
''If familiarity breeds contempt, then nonfamiliarity breeds mystique,'' said Mike Hughes, the chief executive of the National Golf Course Owners Association. ''And the more isolated you become, the more you buy into it. People going that far for golf focus on the golf exclusively and leave their cellphones and e-mails behind. They're also usually playing spectacular golf courses.''
The foremost example of the seclusion-yields-success business model is Bandon Dunes, a similarly inaccessible Oregon seacoast complex opened in 1999 that now draws 130,000 golfers annually and employs almost 1,000. The developer of Bandon Dunes, Mike Keiser, a former greeting card mogul who grew up in upstate New York, is the financial clout behind Cabot Links as well.
''We have seen year after year that oceanside and links is a magical golf formula, and being out of the way has not been a disadvantage,'' Keiser said. ''The trip invests you in the experience.''
There are other popular examples, some not even on the water. The Sand Hills Golf Club in central Nebraska, a links-style course, has built a cultlike following in its 17 years of operation.
For the Nova Scotia project, it has helped that the industry's trade magazines have been breathless in their praise awaiting its opening. Links magazine, which is unashamedly persnickety when it comes to appraising the credentials of a true links course, called Cabot Links the only seaside links course between Bandon, Ore., and the famed Ballybunion Golf Club in Ireland.
Back in Inverness, some are mildly skeptical that a world of golfers will flock to their course.
''Our people understand the geography better than anyone,'' MacIsaac, 70, said in the lilting, Scottish-influenced accent common here. ''But I say to them: 'You don't understand how crazy golfers can be. You'll see.' ''
The idea for a links course in oft-forgotten Inverness goes back decades. Town leaders looked at the pile of slag left behind when the last of the coal mines shuttered in the late 1960s and organized a committee to devise uses for the land that sits between the town and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Not surprisingly, in a province named New Scotland, the top suggestion was a golf course.
Many golf developers, including Jack Nicklaus, were interested. But in each case over the years, the financing fell through or the parties lost interest.
''We were devastated with each defeat,'' said Duart MacAuley, the Inverness County warden.
A nearby pulp mill that employed 270 also closed. A gypsum mine went out of business. The lobster and crab market was damaged by fluctuating prices. Turning abandoned coal mines into a scenic golf course remained a pipe dream.
Then one night in 2004, a top provincial official, Rodney MacDonald -- not everyone in Inverness has a name that begins with Mac but most do -- was in Toronto sitting next to Ben Cowan-Dewar, a golf tourism operator. MacDonald regaled Cowan-Dewar with an account of unwanted golf land in Inverness. Cowan-Dewar, who built a golf hole at his family's Ontario farm when he was 8, made the trek to Inverness on Cape Breton Island. He was smitten by the landscape.
''I knew there wasn't another oceanside golf parcel like it in eastern North America,'' Cowan-Dewar said last Sunday. ''Of course, I didn't really know how to develop a golf course yet.''
Cowan-Dewar, then just 25, nonetheless started pitching his vision to everyone, beginning with regional agencies that could lend him money. He had to piece together and buy 14 land parcels from various owners. And in March 2008, even though not one golf hole had been constructed, he moved from downtown Toronto to Inverness with his wife, Allie Barclay, who was 35 weeks pregnant and leaving behind a career in finance.
''I arrived in tears,'' Barclay said last week, recalling the move. ''I felt like I was in the witness protection program.''
Four years later, Barclay runs the Cabot Links pro shop and helps with administrative duties, and has a 4-year-old son, a 2-year-old daughter and a charming house that overlooks the golf course and ocean.
''I didn't know how welcoming everyone would be,'' she said, sitting in the Red Shoe Pub not far from the course.
As fiddle music filled the pub and every foot tapped to the beat of a Celtic reel, Barclay smiled as she nodded or waved at seemingly everyone. That included the two waitresses, the man collecting the cover charge and a half-dozen patrons who are among the 125 employees at Cabot Links.
''You create 125 jobs in Chicago, and it means nothing,'' Cowan-Dewar said. ''You do it in a community this size, and it affects a lot of families very directly.''
For about one in three Inverness households since the 1970s, regular employment has meant a long trip to western Canada to work in the oil industry. Men and women go for two- or three-week shifts.
''I wasn't sure I'd ever get out of Alberta,'' said Jessica MacDonald, 24, who worked there the last four years. ''But when the golf course started hiring, I couldn't wait to come home.''
The Cabot Links work force includes teenagers, college students, young professionals and local retirees. The course, which has no golf carts, fields a full caddie corps, offering the perk of access to the course in off hours.
Town residents have grown used to seeing children walking down the streets with golf clubs, not just hockey sticks.
Cabot Links, shaped and designed by the noted Canadian golf architect Rod Whitman, will not be cheap for them, with peak-hour greens fees of about 110 Canadian dollars, or $108. There is a $70 twilight rate for Cape Breton residents. Most top-100 golf courses in North America, a grouping Cabot Links will probably soon be compared to, usually charge far more. Many charge twice as much.
Still, the cost to play at Cabot Links, or to stay in one of the 48 hotel rooms with floor-to-ceiling glass walls overlooking the golf course (nightly rates begin at $225), has raised some eyebrows in Inverness. There are minor concerns about protecting the adjacent public beaches. Housing and property prices in town have skyrocketed.
Lawrence MacIsaac, a retired military chaplain who recently returned to Inverness, his hometown, and became a real estate agent, said that one of the many old matching homes built for coal mine workers -- called Red Rows because they were all painted red and tightly spaced -- is listed for $250,000. Ten years ago, such homes sold for $40,000.
''So, yes, there are some people wondering about how the town will change,'' Lawrence MacIsaac, John's cousin, said as he ate breakfast in the Coal Miner's Cafe. ''But the vast majority of us recall when there were six or eight boarded-up businesses in town and a sense of hopelessness. You can say it's only a golf course, but it's put a bounce in our step.''
As evidence, he pointed to the national chain Robin's Donuts, which is opening a franchise on Central Avenue -- with Inverness's first drive-through window.
The course developers say they will expand Cabot Links if it draws about 20,000 golfers annually. That is a reasonable expectation because western Nova Scotia is the more temperate side of the island, with a golf season that can run from mid-April to mid-November. Additional oceanfront property has been acquired for another 18 holes.
Then there will be two new upscale golf courses so far from, well, everything.
''It's not Newfoundland or the North Pole,'' Keiser said. ''It's east of Maine, not north of it. Bandon Dunes is far more remote.''
As for John MacIsaac, who climbed out of the mines as a young man to become a teacher, principal and assistant superintendent of schools in Inverness, he is brimming with the expectation of someone about to host a gigantic, long-awaited party.
''It's been our dream for decades to create something that's green, open and full of the outdoors,'' he said last week, standing beside the 18th hole and waving a hand at the golf landscape that reaches to the sea. ''I hope so many people come that the place is always busy and I never get to play.
''I'll go down to the beach and take pictures of them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cabot Links in Nova Scotia is the latest course whose remote location can be appealing to golfers. It is several hundred miles from any large metropolitan city. (SP1)
Ben Cowan-Dewar started plans for the course after visiting Cape Breton Island.
The site of a fan house at the coal mining complex, left, is the location of a new restaurant at the golf course. Cabot Links has created 125 jobs in the small community, and another golf course nearby could be in the offing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL DARROW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
From mines to sand traps: The new Cabot Links course was built on the outskirts of Inverness, a town near the Gulf of St. Lawrence that was economically depressed after the last of the area's coal mines shut down in the late 1960s. Below, the mining complex in Inverness around 1910. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CABOT LINKS
 COURTESY OF JOHN MacISAAC) (SP4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); COAL MINING (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); MINE CLOSINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); AIRPORTS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



2 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Africa On the Rise

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
MASERU, Lesotho
GENERATIONS of Americans have learned to pity Africa. It's mainly seen as a quagmire of famine and genocide, a destination only for a sybaritic safari or a masochistic aid mission.
So here's another way to think of Africa: an economic dynamo. Is it time to prepare for the African tiger economy? Six of the world's 10 fastest-growing economies between 2001 and 2010 were in Africa, according to The Economist. The International Monetary Fund says that between 2011 and 2015, African countries will account for 7 of the top 10 spots.
Africa isn't just a place for safaris or humanitarian aid. It's also a place to make money. Global companies are expanding in Africa; vast deposits of oil, gas and minerals are being discovered; and Goldman Sachs recently issued a report, ''Africa's Turn,'' comparing business opportunities in Africa with those in China in the early 1990s. 
I'm writing this column in Lesotho, a mountainous kingdom (it was snowing the day I arrived!) in southern Africa, on my annual win-a-trip journey. The winner this year, Jordan Schermerhorn, an engineering student at Rice University, and I visited garment factories that make clothing for American stores. This country is Africa's biggest apparel exporter to America.
One set of factories we visited, belonging to the Nien Hsing Textile Company, a giant Taiwanese corporation, employs 10,000 people in Lesotho, making this its biggest operation in the world. Workers turn out bluejeans for Levi's and other American companies, and Alan Han, a senior company official, said quality is comparable to that of factories in Asia.
While America may largely misperceive Africa as a disaster zone, China does get the promise on the continent. Everywhere you turn in Africa these days there are Chinese businesspeople seeking to invest in raw materials and agriculture. But American businesses seem to be only beginning to wake up to the economic potential here.
Why does that matter? Because trade often benefits a country more than aid. I'm a strong supporter of foreign aid, but economic growth and jobs are ultimately the most sustainable way to raise living standards.
The American Congress has badly bungled the picture this year by delaying renewal of a provision of the Africa Growth and Opportunity Act, or AGOA. This promotes trade by providing duty-free access to the American market. It's one of the best aid programs you've never heard of -- except that it isn't an aid program but an initiative to help Africa lift itself up and create jobs through exports.
Some 300,000 jobs in Africa have been created because of AGOA, according to the Brookings Institution, but, in the last few months, countless Africans have been laid off because of the delay in renewal. American importers don't want to place orders unless they are sure that the provision will be renewed and the clothing can enter duty-free. In Lesotho alone, about 5,000 garment workers have lost their jobs because of this maddening Congressional delay.
Granted, African countries themselves have botched trade because of corruption, onerous rules and uncompetitive minimum wages. The minimum wage for garment workers is about $37 per month in Bangladesh, compared with about $120 in Lesotho.
Or consider infuriating red tape. In Swaziland, it takes 12 procedures and 56 days to start a company, according to the World Bank's superb ''Doing Business'' report for 2012. In Niger, it takes 326 days to build a warehouse. In Senegal, it takes 43 procedures and more than two years to enforce a legal claim.
Some of the otherwise most impressive countries in Africa, like Rwanda, also undermine themselves with their political repression. Ethiopia's dictator, Meles Zenawi, is doing an excellent job of raising health and living standards, but he also presides over a security service that kills and rapes with impunity -- and imprisons journalists who report on abuses. Last week, a sham trial in Ethiopia found one such brave journalist, Eskinder Nega, guilty of terrorism.
All in all, though, Africa is becoming more democratic, more technocratic and more market-friendly. Yet Americans are largely oblivious to the idea of Africa as a success story.
One of the problems with journalism is that we focus on disasters. We cover planes that crash, not those that take off. In Africa, that means we cover famine in Somalia and genocide in Sudan, terrorism in Nigeria and warlords in Congo. Those are important stories -- deserving more attention, not less -- but they can also leave a casual reader convinced that all of Africa is lurching between genocide and famine.
So that's why I decided to start this win-a-trip journey in a delightful country like Lesotho that just had a democratic change of power. Its streets are safe, and it is working on becoming one of the first countries in the world with an electric grid 100 percent reliant on renewable energy.
It's a symbol of an Africa that is rising.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); APPAREL MFG (70%); GARMENT WORKERS (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); LAYOFFS (65%); TEXTILES (65%)

COMPANY: NIEN HSING TEXTILE CO LTD (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); RICE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: 1451 (TAIEX) (82%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (82%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); LESOTHO (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



3 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Call Waiting: 'It's Me, Vacation'

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
I'M heading into another vacation, and I'm nervous. I don't want to kill again.
I pretty much did in my last break, this past March. Not an act of premeditation so much as passion. I got so jacked up. Seven days in Hawaii. It was going to be the best vacation I'd ever had.
And then it started.
Somehow my wife and I had failed to anticipate the effects of a time-zone change on our two toddlers. Then there was the rain. I took refuge in my phone, checking the weather, reading the news. I wondered why I wasn't relaxed. The pool was too cold. How much were we paying for this? I checked my phone to see if anyone missed me on Facebook. Nope. 
I had hoped to return home at peace. Instead I was exhausted, defeated and irritable.
What had I done?
With another break looming, I went seeking professional help. Is there a way to get the most out of a vacation? Or at least not to ruin it? Can one avoid the seven-day trap: three days impatient to be relaxed already, two days actually being relaxed, and then two final days of dread before going back to work?
And can any of this be supported by actual science?
As it turns out, yes. The secret to not killing your vacation revolves around understanding not just your motives, but also your brain and the role it plays in undoing your precious time off.
And so, after a series of conversations with those who seem to understand my brain better than I do -- neuroscientists, behavior experts and even business executives -- I have a few answers. Herewith, the last Vacation Mental Prep List You'll Ever Need (made with actual bits of brain science).
Start Now
Picture a sedan tearing down the autobahn, its engine redlining. The driver slams the brakes. The car skids, spins, slams into guardrails and finally stops. This is your brain starting a vacation. People are working at historic intensity, ever-connected and consumed by work. So it's not surprising that even though your body might be comfortably prone on a beach towel, your brain is still scrolling through to-do lists back home. In fact it is unrealistic, experts say, to expect your thoughts to stop on a dime.
Which is why, said Emma Seppala, the associate director of the Center for Compassion and Altruism Research and Education at Stanford University, letting go is something ''you have to practice on a daily basis.''
This, she and others say, entails being deliberate, at some point in each day, about shifting out of work mode and keeping the eternal to-do list at bay.
It can mean turning off your phone an hour before bedtime, or not looking at it first thing in the morning. If you are addicted not to the refresh button on your device but to intensity itself, try stepping away from that, too. Take a walk, or put your feet up on your desk and close your eyes for 10 minutes. Best yet, experts say, practice some kind of exercise or meditation designed to slow the mind.
Ms. Seppala has seen its effects. She's been working with veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, helping them disconnect from the intensity and trauma of war. They use a simple exercise: deep breathing. Even after a few breaths there was a drop in the veterans' ''startle response.'' They were less hyped up.
If the vets can come down with some basic breathing, we can, too. And the sooner we start and the more regularly we practice, the better.
Leave Your Context at Home
Habits are formed and reinforced by our physical context. Wake up in the same bed, see the clock, plod to the shower, drive to the office. Repeat. But habits aren't merely physical; they're emotional, too. Your physical surroundings reinforce your state of mind, explained Russell Poldrack, a professor of neurobiology at the University of Texas.
''Habits of the mind aren't easy to break in a few days,'' he said. Especially if you don't change your context.
Which, it seems perhaps too obvious to point out, is why we go on vacation. But these days we are perhaps unaware of just how much of our everyday life we bring along, too. No, not the office or the commuter train, but the phone -- that cubicle in your pocket.
Phones and computers fundamentally encourage, even demand, a constant cycle of stimulation and response. Click or swipe, and something happens. And responding to a ping, researchers say, delivers a ''dopamine squirt'' -- a little burst of adrenaline. The brain gets used to this stimulation and then craves it in its absence.
Yes, some people can hit the off button and be done with it. Others can't, and shouldn't necessarily have to. (That, researchers say, can provoke stress in its own right.)
But to the extent that you can, make a point to change your relationship with your device. Maybe leave it in one place and refuse to tote it around all day. One Silicon Valley big shot told me he brings his phone but disables e-mail. Whatever you decide, see your gadget for what it is -- a copper wire straight into the life you're trying to escape.
Endure the Boredom
There you are, lying on a chaise by the pool, a book at the ready. But instead of sitting back and reading it, you are getting up every five minutes to see whether the adventure hut is open so you can schedule your water-Pilates instruction. Or you are at the lake house, breezes coming up off the water, and instead of enjoying them you are obsessing about a dinner party you've just arranged. What grain goes best with barbecued cod?! This is your brain still whirring, hunting and pecking, scanning for stimulus.
''Don't put down the phone just to get preoccupied by something else,'' said Soren Gordhamer, the organizer of Wisdom 2.0, a growing movement in the Bay Area aimed at helping people find balance in the modern world. ''If you're not careful, the same orientation you have toward your device, you'll put toward something else.''
What to do?
First, fight through the withdrawal -- not just from your device but also from the constant need to be doing something. (If you find this unpleasant, and chances are you will, it doesn't mean that your vacation is bad or that you hate your family.)
To help your brain along, researchers have a few thoughts. First, plunge into an absorbing but low-stakes activity -- hiking, snorkeling, knitting a two-piece. Novel and unfamiliar tasks help tug our brains out of their ruts. Second, if you are up to a slightly higher level of difficulty, just observe your brain as it moves from thing to thing, hunts and pecks. Make a sport of watching it bounce from one thing to the next, a pinball slowly -- you hope -- losing momentum.
Get Over Yourself
Your workplace will not implode if you're not there. Please don't make me prove it to you using math. And the fact that it can keep running in your absence doesn't mean you'll return to a pink slip.
Don't Prepare for Your Own Death
Before I go on vacation, even for a week, I prepare as though I'm headed to the coroner. I empty the in-box, clean the piles on the desk, put away all the laundry, dust.
On the face of it I'm just getting my personal effects in order so that, presuming I survive my vacation, I also spend it worry-free, liberated to enjoy things to the fullest. But in the process, experts say, I am also significantly raising the stakes for my impending trip.
And raising expectations, some research shows, can have great costs. It builds dopamine, for one thing, which can lead to happy feelings. But if expectations aren't met -- if the pool is a bit subpar, say -- dopamine levels fall. ''This feeling is not pleasant,'' said David Rock, director of the NeuroLeadership Institute. ''It feels a lot like pain.''
Mr. Rock, who uses principles of brain science to consult with organizations about management and leadership, advises keeping those expectations in check. ''Not getting what you expect,'' he said, ''can create a funk that lasts for days.''
Channel the Three-Day Weekend
Sometimes with breaks, less can feel like more. Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Columbus Day (whenever that is) can seem more relaxing than a full week's vacation. Why? It helps that on national holidays we are often getting a free day along with a lot of other people we work with. Less guilt. Less anxiety. But we also tend not to prepare for three days off with the same manic intensity as we do when preparing for a week off.
So before you leave, tie up whatever loose ends you can. But no double knots. Your mantra: it's not a week's vacation, it's a series of two three-day weekends, plus a bonus day.
Stop Flirting With Work
Jonathan Schooler, a psychology professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara, offered a cautionary tale. A recent family trip to Norway intended for relaxation became an exercise in frustration instead because he thought he could fit in a little work along the way. He'd take out his laptop, fiddle, not get much done or just think about the work he'd promised himself he'd do. But he didn't do it. And he never fully relaxed either.
Of all people, he said, he should know better. Really. His research has shown that creativity incubates when people let their minds wander or do only mildly engaging mental tasks. People sense it might be true, he said, but in a wired world we often only pay lip service to the idea that we need to disconnect.
''Part of the problem is that we don't really believe in the value of incubation and the value of mind wandering,'' he said, adding with a laugh, ''I'm still ruining vacations by taking work with me, trying to get stuff done.''
He thinks people do this for two reasons: we persuade ourselves that we can't afford to do otherwise, and we actually believe we can be productive in these spurts on vacation.
In reality, he believes, working during a break doesn't just interfere with your vacation; it can also prevent you from fully filling your creative tank before your return.
Don't Worry About Re-Entry; Most of It's Spam
''Who wants to come back from vacation to 1,000 e-mails?'' asked Sylvia Allegretto, an economist at the Institute for Research on Labor and Employment at the University of California at Berkeley. No one wants to feel so buried that they'd wish they'd stayed home.
Ms. Allegretto has not always loved her solution to this problem: keeping up with e-mail on vacation, not wanting to fall behind. She feels as though she's never fully relaxed.
Something good happened, though, on a recent trip home to visit her family in rural Pennsylvania. She found herself in a nail salon, getting a pedicure in the middle of the day, surrounded by old friends, drinking a beer.''It's how life used to be,'' she said.
After that, she got lost in her hometown, a place both new and familiar. She stopped checking e-mail, partly because the town has poor cellphone reception. She really relaxed. She returned to hundreds of e-mails, but not only did she survive, so did her vacation.
Mine will, too, presuming you all follow me on Facebook and ''like'' my poolside updates. Does anyone know what goes with barbecued cod?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY GRAHAM ROUMIEU)(TR1
 TR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEUROSCIENCE (89%); CHILDREN (75%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



4 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN DONGAN HILLS, S.I.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: A Layer Cake, Topographically and Otherwise

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE idea that there could be mean streets on the Upper East Side may seem, to some New Yorkers, akin to the suggestion that alligators swim in the sewers. But crime was in fact a problem on the streets of Yorkville in the early 1960s, according to Steven Zboinski, whose parents would whisk him away each summer to the sparsely settled and comparatively wholesome East Shore of Staten Island.
''It was to make sure you were being brought up the right way,'' he said.
Not that the area, which arcs below the Verrazano Bridge, was perfect. Pollution forced the closure of some beaches over the years, and a boardwalk along the shore fell apart. 
All the same, young Steven became forever charmed by its hushed streets, carefree vibe and sea air. So it was obvious where he would move, once old enough to make his own decisions: the East Shore, and in particular Dongan Hills, a two-and-a-half-square-mile enclave (population about 25,000) that sweeps from Lower New York Bay to the base of Todt Hill.
His timing has shown him to be in sync with the currents of real estate change. Over the last few decades, the waterside section of Dongan Hills, where Mr. Zboinski so often spent July as a child, has transitioned from a second-home getaway to a year-round community.
So he was far from the only new arrival in 1989, when he bought a two-bedroom vinyl-sided wood-frame house in an area where most properties are separated by narrow alleys. The home, which cost him $125,000, was appraised in 2007 for $410,000, though the recession has since further changed things, with the value dropping to $265,000 last year.
Even so, it is clear to Mr. Zboinski, who works as a building painter for the College of Staten Island, that Dongan Hills is at the moment enjoying an upswing. City projects to revitalize the beach area and the adjacent wetlands will continue to improve property values, said Mr. Zboinski, who believes that magical feeling the landscape stirred in him as a child can be recaptured. ''It feels great, fabulous to see it all come back,'' he said.
Longtime ties to the community have also bred loyalty in Jerry Ruggiero, a retired electrician for the Staten Island Railway who lives in a 1960s brick ranch, near the train station to which he used to walk to work.
Mr. Ruggiero, the second person ever to own his three-bedroom property, paid $60,000 for it in 1981 and estimates it could sell for $400,000 today. Yet if his family history is any indication, he's not going anywhere. His mother and father live one street over, on the block where both grew up.
Suggesting the gentleness of the ebbs and flows of life here, the agenda of the 40-member Dongan Hills United Civic Association, of which Mr. Ruggiero is president, is usually light.
There are some worries about wild turkeys on lawns; potholes are also discussed. And heavy traffic on the commercial arteries of Richmond Road and Hylan Boulevard persistently generates complaints. But residents say the traffic has been a nuisance since 1964, when the Verrazano opened, uniting Staten Island and Brooklyn.
Still, the group didn't oppose the Muslim American Society of Staten Island when it sought to open a mosque in a former Hindu temple on Burgher Avenue, after it was fiercely rebuffed next door in Midland Beach.
Dongan Hills may be set in its ways, Mr. Ruggiero said, but that doesn't mean new faces aren't welcome.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
Dongan Hills has three sections, layered and stacked in a kind of cake.
Attention-seeking multimillion-dollar mansions are found in the icing, in the Dongan Hills Colony, which is terraced above Richmond Road. But tucked amid these stucco-sided houses with bulging bay windows are more modest two-families, like the high ranch ''regular house'' that belongs to Carol Bruzzese, who lives three blocks from where she grew up. She said she had been ''determined to stay in the neighborhood,'' which offers views of the Manhattan skyline.
There are two-family homes throughout Dongan Hills, but absentee landlords do not predominate, according to census figures; two-thirds of all residents own their homes.
In the middle layer, in the zone between Richmond and Hylan, streets like North Railroad Avenue are shaded by trees whose limbs meet in the middle. New houses, invariably bigger than their predecessors, turn up here, too. On Alter Avenue, a row of semidetached two-families, with porticos perched on tall columns, stare down at 1920s colonials.
The bottom layer stretches south of Hylan to Father Capodanno Boulevard, or ''Father Cap,'' named for a Navy chaplain from Staten Island who died in the Vietnam War. Though closest to the beach, this area has the most affordable real estate: mostly peak-roofed one-story bungalows abutting lush wetlands.
The lower values could reflect the fact that some of this area sits below sea level, so that flooding has been a problem. But the city and state have undertaken an ambitious effort, buying up undeveloped parcels in hopes of keeping them wild. The idea is that by replanting trees and keeping areas unpaved, they can provide a way to soak up rainwater and keep it from pooling on roads.
Two-family homes have sprouted here, though they have older company. Along Slater Boulevard, named for L. Roy Slater, an early developer, older houses have front doors of different colors side by side, creating almost a Mutt-and-Jeff look.
Condominiums are few and found in one of two types of building: small two-unit houses put up in the last several years, and larger complexes, like the seven-story structure at 175 Zoe Street, which went up in the 1980s.
The area is largely white and mostly Italian -- residents of Little Italys in Manhattan and the Bronx used to summer here. Russian and Chinese immigrants have relocated from Brooklyn in recent years, brokers say.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In mid-June there were 72 single-family houses for sale, at an average of $677,565, according to data from the Staten Island Multiple Listing Service.
They ranged from a three-bedroom Cape on Hancock Street, close to the Dongan Hills station of the Staten Island Railway, listed at $260,000, to an eight-bathroom mansion in the Colony with an entryway aquarium, listed at $3.8 million.
Since the recession, prices in all categories have slipped. In 2007, at the peak of the market, there were 84 single-family sales, at an average of $489,000, according to the listing service. In 2011 there were 66 sales, at an average of $437,000, for a decline of 11 percent.
Two-family homes fell about the same amount. In 2007 there were 39 sales, at an average of $608,000; in 2011 there were 33, at an average of $550,000, or a decline of 10 percent.
The main reason prices haven't dropped 20 percent, as in other Staten Island neighborhoods, said Joseph Tsomik, an associate broker with Homes-R-Us Realty of New York, is proximity to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. ''Most people who are moving here are from Brooklyn, and work in Manhattan, and they want easy access,'' he said.
WHAT TO DO
The well-kept Franklin D. Roosevelt boardwalk, which west of Seaview Avenue becomes a concrete promenade, has people out strolling at all hours. The seafood restaurant Toto's, nearby on Father Cap, hosts horseshoes games on Wednesday nights in the summer.
Improvements to the area include the ongoing construction of a 2,500-seat field house for track and field on Father Cap, and an expanded pavilion area at the end of Seaview Avenue, which is to be the new home of the Victory Diner, a local landmark.
Hylan, which has a jumble of strip malls, is for national chains -- banks, restaurants and pharmacies -- as the few mom-and-pop shops appear to be either recently closed or not yet open.
THE SCHOOLS
A public school that serves the area is No. 52, the John C. Thompson School. In 2011, 58 percent of fifth-graders met standards in English, 72 percent in math. Citywide, those percentages were 49 and 63.
A middle school is the George L. Egbert on Midland Avenue. And at New Dorp High School, which enrolls about 2,600, SAT averages last year were 418 in reading, 433 in math and 411 in writing, versus 437, 460 and 432 citywide.
Parochial options include St. Christopher's, a coed Catholic school that goes through Grade 8. Tuition for a single child is $3,975 a year, plus fees.
THE COMMUTE
Seven Staten Island Railway trains leave from the Dongan Hills station between 7 and 9 a.m., arriving 14 minutes later at the St. George ferry terminal, where boats leave for Manhattan. Total commute time to Midtown is an hour and a half.
Nine express buses reach Midtown through Brooklyn, but they take about as long.
THE HISTORY
The area is named for Thomas Dongan, who in the late 1600s served as a governor of the Colonial province of New York. He had an estate in nearby Castleton.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEING SEEN: Overlook Avenue in Dongan Hills reveals what inspired local place names. Houses ranging widely in both age and price are similarly perched, and water views are prized. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (89%); FAMILY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (69%); TRAINS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); WETLANDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



5 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3141 words

HEADLINE: To Delaware, With Love

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
WILMINGTON, Del.
NOTHING about 1209 North Orange Street hints at the secrets inside. It's a humdrum office building, a low-slung affair with a faded awning and a view of a parking garage. Hardly worth a second glance. If a first one.
But behind its doors is one of the most remarkable corporate collections in the world: 1209 North Orange, you see, is the legal address of no fewer than 285,000 separate businesses.
Its occupants, on paper, include giants like American Airlines, Apple, Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway, Cargill, Coca-Cola, Ford, General Electric, Google, JPMorgan Chase, and Wal-Mart. These companies do business across the nation and around the world. Here at 1209 North Orange, they simply have a dropbox.
What attracts these marquee names to 1209 North Orange and to other Delaware addresses also attracts less-upstanding corporate citizens. For instance, 1209 North Orange was, until recently, a business address of Timothy S. Durham, known as ''the Midwest Madoff.'' On June 20, Mr. Durham was found guilty of bilking 5,000 mostly middle-class and elderly investors out of $207 million. It was also an address of Stanko Subotic, a Serbian businessman and convicted smuggler -- just one of many Eastern Europeans drawn to the state. 
Big corporations, small-time businesses, rogues, scoundrels and worse -- all have turned up at Delaware addresses in hopes of minimizing taxes, skirting regulations, plying friendly courts or, when needed, covering their tracks. Federal authorities worry that, in addition to the legitimate businesses flocking here, drug traffickers, embezzlers and money launderers are increasingly heading to Delaware, too. It's easy to set up shell companies here, no questions asked.
''Shells are the No. 1 vehicle for laundering illicit money and criminal proceeds,'' said Lanny A. Breuer, assistant attorney general for the criminal division of the Justice Department. ''It's an enormous criminal justice problem. It's ridiculously easy for a criminal to set up a shell corporation and use the banking system, and we have to stop it.''
In these troubled economic times, when many states are desperate for tax dollars, Delaware stands out in sharp relief. The First State, land of DuPont, broiler chickens and, as it happens, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., increasingly resembles a freewheeling offshore haven, right on America's shores. Officials in other states complain that Delaware's cozy corporate setup robs their states of billions of tax dollars. Officials in the Cayman Islands, a favorite Caribbean haunt of secretive hedge funds, say Delaware is today playing faster and looser than the offshore jurisdictions that raise hackles in Washington.
And international bodies, most recently the World Bank, are increasingly pointing fingers at the state.
Of course, business -- the legal kind -- has been the business of Delaware since 1792, when the state established its Court of Chancery to handle business affairs. By the early 20th century, the state was writing friendly corporate and tax laws to lure companies from New York, New Jersey and elsewhere. Most of the businesses incorporated here are legitimate and many are using all legal means to reduce their tax bills -- something that most stockholders applaud.
President Obama has criticized outposts like the Caymans, complaining that they harbor giant tax schemes. But here in Wilmington, just over 100 miles from Washington, is in some ways the biggest corporate haven of all. It takes less than an hour to incorporate a company in Delaware, and the state is so eager to attract businesses that the office of its secretary of state stays open until midnight Monday through Thursday -- and until 10:30 p.m. on Friday.
Nearly half of all public corporations in the United States are incorporated in Delaware. Last year, 133,297 businesses set up here. And, at last count, Delaware had more corporate entities, public and private, than people -- 945,326 to 897,934.
One Delaware company was used last year to make an anonymous $1 million donation to Restore Our Future, a super PAC that favors Mitt Romney for president. Restore Our Future ultimately disclosed that the money came from a former Bain Capital executive. The Romney campaign declined comment, and Restore Our Future did not return calls.
Delaware's tax laws are a bonanza for the state. At a time when many states are being squeezed by a difficult economy, Delaware collected roughly $860 million in taxes and fees from its absentee corporate residents in 2011. That money accounted for a quarter of the state's total budget.
''Companies choose our state and we are proud of it,'' said Richard J. Geisenberger, Delaware's chief deputy secretary of state and its leading ambassador to business. ''We spend a lot of time in the United States and traveling internationally to let people know that Delaware is a great place to do business.''
It is also a great place to reduce a tax bill. Delaware today regularly tops lists of domestic and foreign tax havens because it allows companies to lower their taxes in another state -- for instance, the state in which they actually do business or have their headquarters -- by shifting royalties and similar revenues to holding companies in Delaware, where they are not taxed. In tax circles, the arrangement is known as ''the Delaware loophole.'' Over the last decade, the Delaware loophole has enabled corporations to reduce the taxes paid to other states by an estimated $9.5 billion.
State lawmakers in Pennsylvania are now trying to close the loophole, arguing that their state is being robbed of its tax dollars. Of particular concern is that many companies involved in drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale region of Pennsylvania are, in fact, incorporating in Delaware instead.
''Delaware is an outlier in the way it does business,'' said David E. Brunori, a professor at George Washington Law School and an expert on taxation. ''What it offers is an opportunity to game the system and do it legally.''
WHAT does it take to incorporate a company in Delaware? Not a lot, tax experts say. Shell companies -- those with no employees, no assets and, in fact, no real business to speak of -- are remarkably easy to establish here, and it doesn't always matter who you are or what business you are in. Viktor Bout, the Russian arms dealer known as ''the merchant of death,'' used two Delaware addresses. In April he was sentenced to 25 years in prison on terrorism charges resulting from an American sting operation.
Jack Abramoff, the former Washington lobbyist jailed on corruption charges, set up a sham Delaware corporation to hide millions in payments and circumvent federal laws. Mr. Subotic, the Serbian businessman who was tried in absentia last October for his role in a cigarette smuggling scheme and sentenced to six years, used three airplanes that were registered in Delaware, including two at 1209 North Orange. Mr. Subotic lives in Geneva and denies the charges.
The Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project, an international group based in Sarajevo, has identified other Eastern Europeans with Delaware links. Among them is Laszlo Kiss, an Romanian accountant and author of ''United States, Tax Heaven -- Uncle Sam Will Fight Your Taxes!'' that praised the state's lax rules. He is now awaiting trial in Bucharest on charges of helping embezzle and launder $10 million through Delaware shells.
''Delaware is the state that requires the least amount of information,'' says David Finzer, the chief executive of Capital Conservator, a registration agent that sets up accounts in Delaware and elsewhere for non-United States citizens. ''Basically, it requires none. Delaware has the most secret companies in the world and the easiest to form.''
Mr. Finzer, an American based in Novi Sad, Serbia, advertises his services online. ''Tax-Free Havens for Non-U.S. Citizens,'' his Web site, says. It goes on: ''More than 50 percent of the major corporations in the world are incorporated in Delaware. Why? Because in provides the anonymity that most offshore jurisdictions do not offer.''
That is exactly what troubles law enforcement agencies and some in Congress who are trying to rein in Delaware. The state is seen as an onshore alternative with regulations more lax than such well-known offshore tax havens as the Isle of Man, Jersey and the Caymans, which require greater disclosure. Even more, a Delaware registration allows a business, legitimate or not, to open a bank account anywhere in the world with the patina of an American address.
''You can have companies in Delaware that have no U.S. bank accounts, no requirements for documentation and no one knows who owns them,'' says Anthony B. Travers, chairman of the Cayman Islands Stock Exchange and former chairman of that country's Financial Services Association. ''There should be a level playing field and Delaware should have to comply with the same standards as the Caymans.''
Delaware isn't the only state that has gone this route. Three others -- Nevada, Wyoming and Oregon -- have also been cited by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, a division of the United States Treasury Department, as ''particularly appealing'' for the formation of shell companies. Of those four states, Delaware stands out as the one offering the least transparency and the most secrecy, this group says.
''What is so galling about secrecy in the United States is that there is no attempt to document who owns a corporation,'' said Richard Murphy, a senior adviser at the Tax Justice Network, an independent organization based in London that researches tax havens. ''Two million corporations are formed each year in the United States, more than anywhere else in the world. Delaware, in turn, is the biggest single source of anonymous corporations in the world.''
Mr. Murphy adds: ''Why go to the Caymans when you can just go down the street?''
In 2009, the Tax Justice Network named the United States as No. 1 on its Financial Secrecy Index, ahead of Luxembourg and Switzerland. It cited Delaware as one of the reasons.
That, Mr. Murphy says, elicited howls in Wilmington. ''The reaction was: 'This cannot be true.' Not only can it be true, it is true.'' (The United States has since fallen to fifth place, behind Switzerland, the Caymans, Luxembourg and Hong Kong, after the group changed its method.)
For years, Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, has been leading a quixotic effort to adopt legislation that would require states to collect information on the ''beneficial ownership'' of companies incorporated within their borders.
That would require states to add the name of the person standing behind the corporation -- its beneficial owner -- on incorporation papers. To sweeten the pot, the legislation would exempt public companies, hedge funds and other large corporations, along with mom-and-pop businesses where ownership is clear. In addition, the federal government would pick up the tab for putting the law into effect.
Senator Levin has long complained that it takes more information to get a driver's license than to set up a corporation in America. Three times since 2000, he has introduced his legislation -- once co-sponsored by Barack Obama when he was a senator from Illinois -- and each time the effort has been rebuffed. He has never even been able to get the measure out of committee.
Law enforcement agencies, human rights groups and the administration are on his side. Last month, a letter supporting Mr. Levin's measure and signed by 41 different groups was sent to every member of Congress.
But that has been no match for the opposition. Most vocal is the National Association of Secretaries of State, a politically powerful group. It is backed up by the Chamber of Commerce, the American Bar Association and the state of Delaware, which is the lone state to have hired a lobbyist to work on the matter.
Senator Thomas R. Carper, a Delaware Democrat, is in line to be the next chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, which has jurisdiction over the measure. Mr. Carper has expressed concerns about the measure but has taken no formal position on it.
''Levin is hitting a brick wall,'' said Heather Lowe, director of government affairs for Global Financial Integrity, an anticorruption research group. ''It's frustrating. Delaware is playing a significant role in the committee. Senator Carper is well liked and well respected and he's not moving on this issue.''
The secretaries of state, along with Delaware, argue that the Levin measure would be costly and burdensome, and would discourage business incorporation and capital formation. They add that their offices are generally ill-equipped to process the additional data that would be required. Even more, determining beneficial ownership may not be a simple matter.
''This would be a sea change in how things are done,'' said Ross Miller, Nevada's secretary of state and president-elect of the National Association of Secretaries of State. ''It would add red tape and increasing processing time. And if you had a money launderer and asked for his name, he probably wouldn't be truthful.''
Mr. Geisenberger, the chief deputy secretary of state of Delaware, said of the Levin measure: ''This would be a massive inhibitor to starting a business. It would end up taking weeks or months to get a business started. And I think a lot of them would move underground and into the black market and just not form a legal entity.''
COMPANIES that are incorporated in Delaware need someone on the ground here -- an agent or go-between to act on their behalf. That is where the CT Corporation comes in.
CT, a subsidiary of the Dutch information services company Wolters Kluwer, is the largest registered agent in Delaware and, it turns out, the registered agent for 1209 North Orange Street. CT is authorized to transact business at that address, and its main duty is to accept legal notices on behalf of the businesses incorporated here and to pass them along.
CT represents nearly a third of all companies registered in Delaware and 60 percent of Fortune 500 companies. It says that before accepting clients, it screens them against the government's ''Specially Designated Nationals,'' a list of people barred from doing business in the United States.
Mainly, however, CT says it acts as a middleman. ''We check names and addresses against various federal agency lists,'' says Timothy Hall, a spokesman for the company, which has no position on the Levin measure. ''We will comply with whatever law is passed,'' he added.
(The New York Times Company has seven corporate subsidiaries registered at 2711 Centerville Road in Wilmington. The registered agent for that address is the Corporation Service Company, which is the second-largest agent in the state.)
For corporate tax planners, Delaware is a dream. The state helps companies legitimately reduce their United States taxes and, sometimes, obscure profits in other countries.
''Companies are able to turn taxable income into tax-exempt income in Delaware and then use it to reduce their tax bills in other states,'' said Bradley P. Lindsey, an accounting professor at North Carolina State University and one of three authors of a 2011 study titled ''Exploring the Role Delaware Plays as a Domestic Tax Haven.'' Delaware does not tax certain profit-making intangible items -- like trademarks, royalties, leases and copyrights. Yet those same intangibles can be part of a tax strategy that allows them to be classified as deductions in other states, reducing a company's tax bill there.
''Delaware serves as a domestic tax haven, much like the Cayman Islands serves as an offshore foreign tax haven, and offers a similar level of tax avoidance,'' the report states.
American corporations find the Caymans alluring for many reasons. There, they can operate in relative secrecy, attract more foreign customers, avoid regulation and enjoy a low tax rate. In one respect, however, Delaware is even better than the Caymans. At some point, American companies have to bring back their foreign profits from the Caymans and pay federal taxes. But in Delaware, the state tax savings through the Delaware loophole are permanent.
And on the reputational front, ''Delaware doesn't carry the same stigma as the Caymans or Bermuda,'' Mr. Lindsay said, adding, ''Why not attract business to my little state and get something at the expense of the other states?''
WorldCom, the telecom giant that collapsed into bankruptcy after an accounting scandal, could be a symbol for the Delaware loophole. Bankruptcy court filings showed that the company had cut $20 billion from state taxes thanks to an intangible asset it called ''management foresight.''
Delaware subsidiaries are especially popular with global energy and mining companies like Exxon, Chevron and Rio Tinto. Among the top 10, some 915 subsidiaries have been set up in Delaware, compared with 51 in Switzerland and 49 in the Caymans, according to a report last September by the Norway chapter of Publish What You Pay, a London-based group that studies natural resources. The study said that this allows these resource extraction companies to put up a ''wall of silence'' about their far-flung operations and profits, especially from poor countries that may want a greater slice of the revenue. Exxon, Chevron and Rio Tinto declined to comment.
STATES like Pennsylvania are increasingly fed up. More than 400 corporate subsidiaries linked to Marcellus Shale gas exploration have been registered in Delaware, most within the last four years, according to the Pennsylvania Budget and Policy Center, a nonprofit group based in Harrisburg that studies the state's tax policy.
In 2004, the center estimated that the Delaware loophole had cost the state $400 million annually in lost revenue -- and that was before the energy boom.
More than two-thirds of the companies in the Marcellus Shale Coalition, an industry alliance based in Pittsburgh, are registered to a single address: 1209 North Orange Street, according to the center.
''So many of these Marcellus Shale companies have figured out that it is fairly easy to siphon profits from Pennsylvania, so that they don't pay taxes here,'' said Michael Wood, research director at the Harrisburg center.
The center is urging Pennsylvania to try to close the Delaware loophole. But it is running into opposition from Pennsylvania companies that want to retain the break. And, in Delaware, state officials say that their approach to business is good for America.
''We have a system that is the greatest creator of wealth in the history of the world,'' said Mr. Geisenberger, the Delaware official. ''We will not support any changes that change the friendliness of American business and close our doors to capital formation and the ease of doing business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: This far-from-flashy site in Wilmington, Del., is the legal address of 285,000 businesses -- not quite a third of those registered in the state. The CT Corporation is the registered agent for the address
its main duty is to accept legal notices on the businesses' behalf and pass them along. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Richard J. Geisenberger, below, Delaware's chief deputy secretary of state, says, ''Companies choose our state and we are proud of it.'' But Delaware addresses have also been held by Viktor Bout, left, a Russian arms dealer recently sentenced to 25 years in prison, and Timothy S. Durham, right, found guilty of bilking investors of $207 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUNGROJ YONGRIT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 JOE VITTI/THE INDIANAPOLIS STAR, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); VERDICTS (72%); EMBEZZLEMENT (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); POULTRY (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (93%) DELAWARE, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



6 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants and Small Business

 BODY:
Immigrants are known as entrepreneurial people, for obvious reasons: those with the ambition and energy to uproot themselves and build new lives in a distant land are well equipped to build businesses and the economy, too. That is the common wisdom, anyway, which a new study from the Fiscal Policy Institute strikingly confirms. The study, based on census data, looks at owners of small businesses across the country and paints a broad and detailed picture of immigrant entrepreneurship. 
The study found that there were 900,000 immigrants among small-business owners in the United States, about 18 percent of the total. This percentage is higher than the immigrant share of the overall population, which is 13 percent, and the immigrant share of the labor force, at 16 percent. Small businesses in which half or more of the owners were immigrants employed 4.7 million people in 2007, the latest year for which data were available, generating $776 billion in receipts. They accounted for 30 percent of the growth in small businesses -- those with fewer than 100 employees -- between 1990 and 2010.
Immigrant entrepreneurs are concentrated in professional and business services, retail, construction, educational and social services, and leisure and hospitality. They own restaurants, doctor's offices, real-estate firms, groceries and truck-transportation services. More of them come from Mexico than any other country, followed by Indians, Koreans, Cubans, Chinese and Vietnamese. California has the highest percentage of immigrants among small-business owners at 33 percent, followed by New York (29 percent), New Jersey (28 percent), Florida (26 percent) and Hawaii (23 percent).
The study did not look at immigrants' legal status, but because it covered only incorporated firms, not off-the-books operations, it presumably included few, if any, business owners without papers.
By rousingly affirming the centrality of immigration in the American economy, the study exposes a fault line running through the Republican Party, which mythologizes small-business owners while treating immigrants with hostility bordering on fury. There is no shortage of conservative business owners who celebrate the immigrant contribution to America -- Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Rupert Murdoch are two -- but Republican leaders, including the party standard-bearer, Mitt Romney, have allied themselves with extremist efforts to limit immigration and hound and harass millions of unauthorized immigrants out of the country.
In G.O.P. strongholds like Arizona -- and Alabama, home to sleepy small towns where Latino-owned bodegas and laundries are among the only signs of economic life downtown -- anti-immigrant policies are threating to strangle economic growth. If Republicans started believing their own rhetoric about small-business owners, they would see immigration not as a sea of troubles but as a deep well of capitalist energy, waiting to be fully tapped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CENSUS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); MAYORS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



7 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2544 words

HEADLINE: It's a Goldman World

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
MOSTLY nearsightedness. That is the early conclusion drawn by Dr. Veronica Ruelas of the status of Goldman eyes.
Dr. Ruelas has become something of the Goldman Sachs optometrist of choice. It's the proximity. Late last year, she was installed at the Artsee Eyewear store in the cluster of stylish shops and restaurants beckoning commerce at the back of Goldman's new Battery Park City headquarters. Goldman people need their vision checked. There she is, right downstairs, with a patient chair in a shade of red known as ''American beauty.''
She is an unorthodox optometrist, intermingling yoga and meditation techniques. When she sees patients, especially those with blood pressure or cholesterol issues tested by deals involving several quadrillion dollars, she often shares with them relaxation concepts.
Someone may be in the chair, and she will tell them things like: ''Inhale I am ... exhale love.'' 
How are the Goldman people responding to such advice?
''They've been very lovely,'' she said. ''But I don't necessarily say it to every patient. I can tell if they're going to be receptive.''
When Goldman Sachs, the potent financial services firm, opened its new 43-story, $2.1 billion steel-and-glass headquarters on a former parking lot at 200 West Street in October 2009, it was an area sorely in need of more shops and restaurants. So Goldman, helped along by $1.65 billion worth of tax-exempt Liberty Bonds and an additional $115 million in tax sweeteners, simply created its own.
Fanning out from its headquarters bounded by Vesey and Murray Streets, next to the World Financial Center and a block northwest of ever-rising ground zero, there is now a kind of Goldman village anchored by Goldman Alley, as the locals call the public passageway between Vesey and Murray that's shielded by a tilted glass canopy.
In this Goldman-enabled world, any of its 8,000 employees can dart downstairs and acquire spicy onion rings at 1 a.m. Or, if the need arises during the day, pick up a Cymbidium orchid. Or grab a bottle of A. Edmond Audry Tres Ancienne Grande Champagne Cognac.
Its location and thick wallet allowed Goldman to assemble its environment as few companies in New York ever have. Since it is a busy user of black cars and cabs, it carved out a driveway in front of its building. It contracted with two parking lots nearby for black cars to sit, keeping them from idling on the street. (Residents say traffic has still worsened.)
Goldman employees visiting from out of town must sleep, so the company bought a hotel and then upgraded it to fit its particularities. And when you need a place to park, a good solution is always to buy a parking garage. So Goldman did, acquiring the lease to the public garage at the Riverhouse condominium building nearby. The hotel offers valet parking at the garage.
Goldman occupies another tower across the Hudson River in Jersey City, and owns the pier there. Ferries already plowed back and forth, but Goldman paid the BillyBey Ferry Company to increase frequency to every seven or eight minutes from 6 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Residents have repeatedly lamented the noise and pollution, so Goldman has built two quieter ferry boats of its own, though they are not yet in service.
Just what effect Goldman's village will have on the encircling Battery Park City neighborhood remains unclear. It's still early. Most of the alley has come alive just in recent months, and a couple of spaces await occupants.
Nonetheless, Elizabeth H. Berger, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business group, said: ''The sense I have is there's a buzz. Certainly it's good for local baby sitters, because more people are going out at night.''
TIMUR GALEN, the global head of corporate services and real estate at Goldman, spearheaded the group that imagined Goldman Alley. In 2006, Goldman bought the 15-story building behind the headquarters location, which contained a midpriced Embassy Suites hotel, a movie theater and dining choices that might fit well in a suburban strip mall. It had a markedly different vision for what would be reborn there.
As Mr. Galen expressed it, Goldman wanted to shift to ''what we thought of as the best of New York.'' It didn't rely on chance. ''Mostly we went out and invited who we wanted,'' he said.
That included Danny Meyer, the prolific New York restaurateur who heads Union Square Hospitality Group, and he opened three restaurants, with his latest outpost of the Shake Shack already a popular attraction on the corner of Murray Street.
Goldman people like wine. Enter the Poulakakos family, whose Wall Street restaurants Goldman knew well. The family opened its first wine store, Vintry Fine Wines, and Harry's Italian restaurant.
Alan Phillips had three existing restaurants in the acquired building. Goldman was willing to keep one, his Pick a Bagel, and gave him space for two new ones, Wei West, an Asian restaurant, and Beans and Greens, a salad place.
Gourmet groceries? Battery Place Market was on the other side of the World Financial Center, and Goldman workers who lived in Battery Park liked it. It was offered an alley spot for a second outlet.
Flowers? Bloom, a luxury uptown florist, was invited down. For eyeglasses, Goldman went to Artsee, with its handmade frames in styles like buffalo horn and surgical steel, and asked it to also find an eye doctor.
The pastry chef Francois Payard was regularly serving sweets to Goldman executives at other Goldman locations, and so the company gave him the nod to open a bakery.
Goldman's far-flung employees travel a lot to New York, and many used to stay at the Battery Park Ritz-Carlton until Goldman bought the Embassy Suites and directed them there. They would refer to it as Hotel Goldman. They didn't adore the place, even with the free all-you-can-eat breakfast buffet.
Also, an Embassy Suites wasn't really in keeping with the Goldman image or what it felt would excite tourists. It converted the hotel to a Conrad, a higher-end Hilton brand. Goldman owns the hotel, while Hilton runs it. There's a rooftop Loopy Doopy Bar and a giant ballroom that Goldman uses for events like analyst training classes.
The hotel figures that 10 percent to 25 percent of room nights might be taken by Goldman employees.
The 11-screen Regal theater was something the community liked, even though it rarely seemed excessively busy. The inherited building lease required Goldman to keep it, but the company dismantled its large marquee, and now you have to really hunt for it.
Some local residents were distressed that Goldman eliminated a sports club. Since the company put a fitness center in its headquarters, it didn't need it.
Salvatore Anzalone used to cut plenty of Goldman hair at his barbershop at 1 New York Plaza, where Goldman had its main equity trading floor. When Goldman moved, the barber tailed along, going into the Embassy Suites building. When the hotel was being renovated, Goldman installed two barber chairs on the mezzanine of its headquarters for Mr. Anzalone to snip only Goldman workers. Now he's over in the Conrad lobby doing $30 haircuts for all.
What's a Goldman haircut like? ''Classic,'' Mr. Anzalone said. ''Modest to short. The younger ones like a little gel, a little tapering.''
How are tips?
''Normal,'' he said. ''A couple of bucks.''
ON a recent morning, Mr. Meyer was touring the alley and talking about how three years ago, when Goldman pitched him, he had no interest. ''It was a part of the city I had zero experience with,'' he said. ''I said, Are we just going to be flapping in the wind down here?''
The pitch convinced him. He proposed putting in a Shake Shack and a Blue Smoke barbecue outpost. Goldman said that wouldn't be enough. It insisted on a new restaurant, too. And so Mr. Meyer conceived North End Grill, an upscale seafood place.
His belief is that restaurants do better with company. So he called up some fellow restaurant owners to see if they would come down, too. Nope.
Over at Blue Smoke, which sits on Vesey Street, Mr. Meyer pointed out how the blue illuminated barbecue sign was positioned so it could be visible from all floors of the new World Trade Center rising down the street.
''I love watching that go up,'' he said. He knelt down and snapped a picture of it with his phone.
He said he had learned that workers at their desks after-hours at Goldman and the various towers typically got a meal voucher of $25. So Blue Smoke offers a $25 takeout dinner.
After the markets close, the Blue Smoke bar is flush with traders. ''At 5:02, you have to literally chisel people off the wall,'' Mr. Meyer said. The North End bar gets crowded, too, but with higher-grade clientele. ''There, it's a cocktail to contemplate, and here it's a cocktail to chug,'' Mr. Meyer said.
The Goldman Alley businesses know they need all sorts of customers to flourish, but Goldman has been the underpinning. For instance, Carlos Venegas said he had much enjoyed Goldman's generous vision insurance. He was Artsee's manager before recently relocating to its Miami Beach store.
A Goldman shopper was debating between two frames the other day as Mr. Venegas checked the insurance, and the Goldman man said, ''I think I'm hearing almost free.'' Goldman people have constituted about 70 percent of the store's business.
Artsee also sells artwork, with the currently displayed paintings going for $3,250, none of that price covered by Goldman's vision plan.
Anthony Roche, the chief operating officer of the Battery Place Market, said 70 percent to 80 percent of his business was Goldman. He set his hours to fit the firm's rhythms. The market opens at 6 a.m., when some employees are trundling in, and doesn't close until 1 a.m.
''That's for the bankers working overnight,'' Mr. Roche said. ''There's a rush from 10 at night until 1. They'll buy some fresh salmon with sides or one of our combo meals.''
Goldman money, though, can go only so far. ''We live in the shadow of the Goldman empire, but we have to think beyond Goldman,'' Mr. Phillips said. His three restaurants do about 60 percent Goldman business, but he prices for the neighborhood. ''People think, Goldman, oh, give me a $32 salad. It's not that way,'' he added. ''You have to stay appropriate.''
Vintry Wines has some bottles going for ''north of $10,000,'' but said most of its sales were $15 to $40 bottles.
Mr. Meyer said he was pleased so far, even drawing ''people who live on the Upper East Side who fear they will get the bends if they come down here.''
Others offered mixed news. Mr. Anzalone, the barber, said things were slow. Mr. Payard, the pastry chef, has cut staffing because sales have been 30 percent below expectations.
Mr. Payard thought it was hard for people to find him. He asked Goldman if he could put out an awning, but it said no. He suggested a street fair. ''But I can't say bad things,'' he said, ''because they will kill me.''
Dr. Ruelas, the optometrist, has been seeing perhaps 15 or 20 patients a week, and had expected 60.
Was this worrying her?
Well it was, but she had other ideas. She was talking to Goldman about maybe holding yoga classes up in the headquarters.
ON North End Avenue, a couple of blocks from Goldman Alley, sits the Hallmark, a well-appointed retirement residence. One afternoon, three mellow residents -- Anita Inglese, 86, Marilyn Amdur, 85, and Joan Ruberti, 81, all widows -- talked about the offerings of the alley.
''It's nice for us,'' Ms. Inglese said. ''We need places to walk to. You have to keep your mind going.''
''I've been in all the places,'' Ms. Amdur said. ''One thing that's good is they put in this long bench. You need to rest sometimes.''
Ms. Ruberti said, ''I love it because everything is brand new.''
When word came that Goldman was moving in, there was queasiness among many Battery Park residents.
''We were concerned it would become a commercial dead man's zone,'' said Anthony Notaro, a community leader. ''It's turned out to be the opposite.''
Others, like Rosalie Joseph, a casting director and community leader, continue to be uncomfortable. She likes many of the new places, but said Battery Park ''doesn't feel like a neighborhood anymore. It feels more like Fifth Avenue.'' She finds that ''after changing the neighborhood, it is difficult to get Goldman engaged with the neighborhood,'' adding, ''I believe they took away more than they gave.''
Tom Goodkind, an accountant and Battery Park City resident, has been pleased with the changes, also noting of Goldman, ''Of course we all want our sons and daughters to work there so we can retire.''
Goldman itself calculated that since 2008 it has showered $76.1 million on community activities in Lower Manhattan. In discussions with Community Board 1, which represents the area but holds no power over Goldman, it agreed to contribute $3.5 million of the $6.7 million cost to build a Battery Park library branch, which opened two years ago, and to chip in $1 million toward the cost of a community center in TriBeCa.
Goldman gave donations like $25,000 last year to the Downtown Little League and the Downtown Soccer League, which play just across Murray Street from the new headquarters.
The Knickerbocker Chamber Orchestra, which performs only in Lower Manhattan, and Poets House, a poetry library, got a joint grant of $31,200 to do a pilot program to perform in schools nearby and hold an event in the World Financial Center. ''For an organization like ours, we have to work hard just to raise a couple of thousand dollars,'' said Gary Fagin, the orchestra's director.
They don't know yet whether Goldman will continue the program.
Which is what residents generally wonder. ''It's like a politician,'' said Tammy Meltzer, a local event planner. ''They're there for you when they want your vote. Are they still there once they're in office?''
The widows of the Hallmark, meanwhile, are satisfied enough, in part for the human contact.
''We get to mingle with the young people, the ones who are sweating it out at their desks,'' Ms. Amdur was saying. ''They're very conversant. And they're very nice. They open the door for you.''
Did she talk with them about the economy, the zigzagging stock market?
''Oh gosh no,'' Ms. Amdur said. She mentioned her brokerage statements, bleeding glum news.
IT was 5:01 p.m. The Blue Smoke bar was humming. Outside was hammering rain. The stock market had closed up smartly.
Conversation strayed: ''So I'm off to Sydney tomorrow. Then Hong Kong.''
''You doing anything tonight? Tomorrow night?''
''My wife was really annoying yesterday. She just doesn't get 'Family Guy.' ''
Clusters of teenagers were streaming through the alley toward the theater, one of them saying, '' 'Men in Black 3' is supposed to be mad cool.''
A suited man was telling a colleague, ''I either get flowers for Janet or she'll put my head in a vise.''
Goldman Alley scooping up dollars, capitalism and its vagaries.
Near the Conrad was a fruit stand. Murat Aridici, 25, was working it. The owner used to be on the Upper East Side but a few weeks ago moved down here, expecting a brighter destiny.
''So far, not so good,'' Mr. Aridici said. ''I can't figure it.''
Even if banana sales languish, other benefits may accrue. He is studying business at Touro College. If nothing else, for a prospective businessman, Goldman territory was fine air to breathe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHINY: Goldman Sachs employees and other visitors under the tilted glass canopy outside a Battery Place Market outlet in the Goldman building. Left, the new Shake Shack. (MB1)
ALLEY: The Goldman village is anchored by what the locals call Goldman Alley, a passageway between Vesey and Murray Streets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
COMES WITH THE JOB: Clockwise from top left: the rooftop bar at the Conrad hotel
Dr. Veronica Ruelas, an optometrist, with Takeko Uemoto, a Goldman employee
a line at the ferry terminal at the end of a workday
and Mike Martin, the wine director at Vintry Fine Wines, which has some bottles for over $10,000 but is seeing sales mostly for $15 to $40 bottles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) MAPS (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPTOMETRY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EYE TESTING (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (72%); YOGA (70%); MEDITATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (64%); TAX LAW (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



8 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Born in Brooklyn, The Underground And America's Past

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
El-P
The producer and rapper El-P's new album, ''Cancer4Cure'' (Fat Possum), is a study in pressure and density, a haunted barrage. Since 1993, when he formed the group Company Flow, El-P has been a prime mover in what has sometimes been called underground hip-hop, an ill-defined zone at best. In productions for himself and others he has only grown more skillful at summoning a deeply urban combination of momentum and claustrophobia. On ''Cancer4Cure,'' his rhymes are fast, telegraphic and on the far edge of comprehension: ''A dawn of the dirt and doom draws nearer/Here's a mirror mirror to peer, fear grows clearer/Steer a path away from the panic of our era.'' And the tracks he puts behind them are his heftiest and most menacing yet: mostly swooping, buzzing, dissonant synthesizers and drumbeats that sputter and lurch, with zaps of electric guitar. 
When he's not boasting about his bitterness and tenacity, El-P revels in paranoia and guardedly shows some heart: telling an abused woman, ''If you kill him I won't tell'' in ''For My Upstairs Neighbor (Mum's the Word)''; feeling a soldier's stress in ''Tougher Colder Killer''; and grimly declaring love in ''$4 Vic/FTL (Me and You).'' His nightmares are fruitful.
Brandi Carlile
Brandi Carlile has outsize gifts. Her voice is rich, malleable and boldly emotive, and she and her band members write songs that straddle rock, folk and country, with lyrics that can leap between the personal and the archetypal. ''I found myself an omen and I tattooed on a sign/I set my mind to wandering and walk a broken line,'' she sings in ''Raise Hell'' on ''Bear Creek'' (Columbia), her fourth studio album. Both the songs and the voice have tempted her past producers toward the overblown. But ''Bear Creek'' relaxes a little bit. In Trina Shoemaker's production, most arrangements lean toward folk and country: front-porch cozy or foot stamping and hand clapping. Even the rock anthems temper electric-guitar buildups with banjo and mandolin. Unfortunately the songwriting is uneven, settling at times for conventional sentiments. But when Ms. Carlile lets her idiosyncratic imagery loose -- in songs like ''That Wasn't Me'' and ''In the Morrow'' -- she's newly approachable. And there's a sonic surprise at the end of the album. ''Just Kids'' trades the rustic for the ethereal; her multiplied voice hovers amid keyboards and strings, as if to prove she's still willing to experiment.
Neil Young and Crazy Horse
Neil Young assembles a musical canon, then jauntily assaults it on ''Americana'' (Reprise). The album takes old songs -- folk, country, doo-wop, Woody Guthrie -- and remakes most of them as rowdy, fuzz-toned psychedelic stomps with Crazy Horse, reconvening the band on their first new project since ''Greendale'' in 2003. It's equal parts deep statement and rock 'n' roll prank: defamiliarizing lyrics that often go unnoticed, acknowledging Mr. Young's debt as a songwriter to the dark, surreal storytelling and rock-ribbed tunes of his predecessors, and having a bash with his compadres in Crazy Horse (and some sweet overdubbed chorales sung by his wife, Pegi Young). Mr. Young often tosses aside the original melodies, turning the songs into minor-key kin of ''Hey Hey, My My'' and ''Cortez the Killer.'' And as the electric guitars bristle, so do the words: tales of murder (''Tom Dula''), death by drowning (''Clementine''), despair (''High Flyin' Bird''), unemployment (''Get a Job''), a fugitive in flight (''Travel On''), a dying pilgrim (''Wayfarin' Stranger''). The album ends with ''God Save the Queen,'' the British anthem that was repurposed for ''America (My Country, 'Tis of Thee)''; this version moves from British fealty to ''Confound their politics/Frustrate their empty tricks'' to a final chorus of ''Let freedom ring.'' Sure, new songs with Crazy Horse would be better, but Mr. Young makes his point as clear as it is loud.
Smashing Pumpkins
''Rise! Love is here,'' Billy Corgan sings on the new Smashing Pumpkins album, ''Oceania'' (Martha's Music), sounding absolutely sincere. His nasal croon has long been synonymous with angst and desperation, but now he's turned benign and spiritual, hailing assorted deities and promising, ''Within your darkest night, I'm always on your side.'' Mr. Corgan lavishes melody and muscle on his newfound certainties, deploying the latest Smashing Pumpkins lineup in barreling triplet-driven rockers and ballads that build to majestic, walloping choruses. It's a gleaming superstructure around a sappy core.
Starring
Typography abuse is on the rise in indie rock. Starring, a band from Brooklyn, has titled its new album ''ABCDEFG-HIJKLMNOP-QRSTUV-WXYZ'' (Northern Spy), and among its six songs are ''...7...'' and '' -- -- -- -- -- oooooooooooooo.'' Maybe the quirks go with the art-rock territory. Starring's music swirls around the neo-psychedelic sound of an old electric organ and cranked-up, distorted lead guitar. The Minimalism of early Terry Riley and Philip Glass, the splashiness of Sun Ra, the drones of the Velvet Underground and the motoric repetition and expanding rhythms of Neu! and Can all echo in Starring's pieces, which also make way, now and then, for Clara Hunter's gentle voice offering a few lines of inexplicable lyrics: ''After all the lasers, I forgot the law.'' It's an album of frenetic enigmas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above, Smashing Pumpkins, back with ''Oceania''
the singer Brandi Carlile
the rapper and producer El-P
and the Brooklyn band Starring. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL ELLEDGE
FRANK OCKENFELS 3
TIM SACCENTI
 EMILY CAPPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (87%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); SONG WRITING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



9 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; ANXIETY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: The 'Busy' Trap

BYLINE: By TIM KREIDER. 
Tim Kreider is the author of ''We Learn Nothing,'' a collection of essays and cartoons.

 BODY:
IF you live in America in the 21st century you've probably had to listen to a lot of people tell you how busy they are. It's become the default response when you ask anyone how they're doing: ''Busy!'' ''So busy.'' ''Crazy busy.'' It is, pretty obviously, a boast disguised as a complaint. And the stock response is a kind of congratulation: ''That's a good problem to have,'' or ''Better than the opposite.''
Notice it isn't generally people pulling back-to-back shifts in the I.C.U. or commuting by bus to three minimum-wage jobs who tell you how busy they are; what those people are is not busy but tired. Exhausted. Dead on their feet. It's almost always people whose lamented busyness is purely self-imposed: work and obligations they've taken on voluntarily, classes and activities they've ''encouraged'' their kids to participate in. They're busy because of their own ambition or drive or anxiety, because they're addicted to busyness and dread what they might have to face in its absence. 
Almost everyone I know is busy. They feel anxious and guilty when they aren't either working or doing something to promote their work. They schedule in time with friends the way students with 4.0 G.P.A.'s make sure to sign up for community service because it looks good on their college applications. I recently wrote a friend to ask if he wanted to do something this week, and he answered that he didn't have a lot of time but if something was going on to let him know and maybe he could ditch work for a few hours. I wanted to clarify that my question had not been a preliminary heads-up to some future invitation; this was the invitation. But his busyness was like some vast churning noise through which he was shouting out at me, and I gave up trying to shout back over it.
Even children are busy now, scheduled down to the half-hour with classes and extracurricular activities. They come home at the end of the day as tired as grown-ups. I was a member of the latchkey generation and had three hours of totally unstructured, largely unsupervised time every afternoon, time I used to do everything from surfing the World Book Encyclopedia to making animated films to getting together with friends in the woods to chuck dirt clods directly into one another's eyes, all of which provided me with important skills and insights that remain valuable to this day. Those free hours became the model for how I wanted to live the rest of my life.
The present hysteria is not a necessary or inevitable condition of life; it's something we've chosen, if only by our acquiescence to it. Not long ago I Skyped with a friend who was driven out of the city by high rent and now has an artist's residency in a small town in the south of France. She described herself as happy and relaxed for the first time in years. She still gets her work done, but it doesn't consume her entire day and brain. She says it feels like college -- she has a big circle of friends who all go out to the cafe together every night. She has a boyfriend again. (She once ruefully summarized dating in New York: ''Everyone's too busy and everyone thinks they can do better.'') What she had mistakenly assumed was her personality -- driven, cranky, anxious and sad -- turned out to be a deformative effect of her environment. It's not as if any of us wants to live like this, any more than any one person wants to be part of a traffic jam or stadium trampling or the hierarchy of cruelty in high school -- it's something we collectively force one another to do.
Busyness serves as a kind of existential reassurance, a hedge against emptiness; obviously your life cannot possibly be silly or trivial or meaningless if you are so busy, completely booked, in demand every hour of the day. I once knew a woman who interned at a magazine where she wasn't allowed to take lunch hours out, lest she be urgently needed for some reason. This was an entertainment magazine whose raison d'etre was obviated when ''menu'' buttons appeared on remotes, so it's hard to see this pretense of indispensability as anything other than a form of institutional self-delusion. More and more people in this country no longer make or do anything tangible; if your job wasn't performed by a cat or a boa constrictor in a Richard Scarry book I'm not sure I believe it's necessary. I can't help but wonder whether all this histrionic exhaustion isn't a way of covering up the fact that most of what we do doesn't matter.
I am not busy. I am the laziest ambitious person I know. Like most writers, I feel like a reprobate who does not deserve to live on any day that I do not write, but I also feel that four or five hours is enough to earn my stay on the planet for one more day. On the best ordinary days of my life, I write in the morning, go for a long bike ride and run errands in the afternoon, and in the evening I see friends, read or watch a movie. This, it seems to me, is a sane and pleasant pace for a day. And if you call me up and ask whether I won't maybe blow off work and check out the new American Wing at the Met or ogle girls in Central Park or just drink chilled pink minty cocktails all day long, I will say, what time?
BUT just in the last few months, I've insidiously started, because of professional obligations, to become busy. For the first time I was able to tell people, with a straight face, that I was ''too busy'' to do this or that thing they wanted me to do. I could see why people enjoy this complaint; it makes you feel important, sought-after and put-upon. Except that I hate actually being busy. Every morning my in-box was full of e-mails asking me to do things I did not want to do or presenting me with problems that I now had to solve. It got more and more intolerable until finally I fled town to the Undisclosed Location from which I'm writing this.
Here I am largely unmolested by obligations. There is no TV. To check e-mail I have to drive to the library. I go a week at a time without seeing anyone I know. I've remembered about buttercups, stink bugs and the stars. I read. And I'm finally getting some real writing done for the first time in months. It's hard to find anything to say about life without immersing yourself in the world, but it's also just about impossible to figure out what it might be, or how best to say it, without getting the hell out of it again.
Idleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence or a vice; it is as indispensable to the brain as vitamin D is to the body, and deprived of it we suffer a mental affliction as disfiguring as rickets. The space and quiet that idleness provides is a necessary condition for standing back from life and seeing it whole, for making unexpected connections and waiting for the wild summer lightning strikes of inspiration -- it is, paradoxically, necessary to getting any work done. ''Idle dreaming is often of the essence of what we do,'' wrote Thomas Pynchon in his essay on sloth. Archimedes' ''Eureka'' in the bath, Newton's apple, Jekyll & Hyde and the benzene ring: history is full of stories of inspirations that come in idle moments and dreams. It almost makes you wonder whether loafers, goldbricks and no-accounts aren't responsible for more of the world's great ideas, inventions and masterpieces than the hardworking.
''The goal of the future is full unemployment, so we can play. That's why we have to destroy the present politico-economic system.'' This may sound like the pronouncement of some bong-smoking anarchist, but it was actually Arthur C. Clarke, who found time between scuba diving and pinball games to write ''Childhood's End'' and think up communications satellites. My old colleague Ted Rall recently wrote a column proposing that we divorce income from work and give each citizen a guaranteed paycheck, which sounds like the kind of lunatic notion that'll be considered a basic human right in about a century, like abolition, universal suffrage and eight-hour workdays. The Puritans turned work into a virtue, evidently forgetting that God invented it as a punishment.
Perhaps the world would soon slide to ruin if everyone behaved as I do. But I would suggest that an ideal human life lies somewhere between my own defiant indolence and the rest of the world's endless frenetic hustle. My role is just to be a bad influence, the kid standing outside the classroom window making faces at you at your desk, urging you to just this once make some excuse and get out of there, come outside and play. My own resolute idleness has mostly been a luxury rather than a virtue, but I did make a conscious decision, a long time ago, to choose time over money, since I've always understood that the best investment of my limited time on earth was to spend it with people I love. I suppose it's possible I'll lie on my deathbed regretting that I didn't work harder and say everything I had to say, but I think what I'll really wish is that I could have one more beer with Chris, another long talk with Megan, one last good hard laugh with Boyd. Life is too short to be busy.
This is an article from Anxiety, a series at nytimes.com/opinionator.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRECHT VANDENBROUCKE) (SR1)
 GRAPHIC (SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (69%); ANIMATED FILMS (50%)

COMPANY: WORLD BOOK INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511199 ALL OTHER PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



10 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: America's Portraitist

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER. 
Holland Cotter, an art critic for The Times, won the Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 2009.

 BODY:
THOMAS HART BENTON
A Life
By Justin Wolff
Illustrated. 400 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $40.
In 1934, Thomas Hart Benton, purveyor of muscular scenes of American life, was the country's most famous painter and one of the very few ever to have his picture on the cover of Time. In 1949, Jackson Pollock, painter of abstract drips and swirls, appeared in a four-page spread in Life teasingly headlined ''Is He the Greatest Living Painter in the United States?'' Yes or no didn't really matter: he was the nation's new art star.
What changed in the 15 years that separated the public elevation of these two artists and their radically different art? The world changed, for one thing, moving out of the Great Depression, through World War II, and into a bomb-haunted cold war. America changed from a mighty fortress to an outreaching global imperium. And American art, including Pollock's, changed from illustrating provincial /sagas to dramatizing universal myths. 
Benton, however, did not change, or changed in the wrong, retrograde direction, going from experiments with vanguard modes, including abstraction, to the nativist realism that briefly made his name. He was barely at midcareer when he had to watch that realism pass into obsolescence, a sight made all the more galling by the fact that Pollock, the most visible agent of a new art order, had once been his student. Benton's response was to stick to his guns, insist that his brand of art was the only valid art, and fire away at all who disagreed.
This is the story, or part of it, told in ''Thomas Hart Benton: A Life,'' by the American art historian Justin Wolff. Benton, who lived from 1889 to 1975, is not a significant presence now. The particular audience he painted for is long gone; the one that has replaced it knows nothing about him. Generally speaking, the elite art establishment of museums and scholars that he reviled has pegged him as at best a period artifact and at worst, as, in Pollock's Oedipal words, ''something against which to react very strongly.''
Small wonder that, faced with a shelf of books on American art, few readers are likely to go for one about Benton. Yet Wolff, who teaches at the University of Maine, makes the artist interesting, largely by taking a balanced view of him. He neither praises nor critically buries Benton but rather, and with what feels like an undercurrent of empathy, works hard to give him his day in court. To this end, he pays relatively little attention to the artist's cranky, embittered and intensively documented late years and dwells at length on the less familiar story of how he became the person he was.
Benton was born in Neosho, Mo., into a family of lawyer-politicians, big-deal types who, in Benton's words, ''drank heavily, ate heartily and talked long over fat cigars.'' His great-uncle had been a United States senator; his father, Maecenas Benton, known as the Colonel, was a congressman. As a boy Benton accompanied his father on rural campaigns. He made note, and later made use, of the Colonel's pronouncement-prone stump style. And he never forgot the experience of hearing everyday people talking about what mattered in their lives.
But professional politics was not for him. He wanted to be an artist. His father, who considered art an unmanly trade, was furious; the two were never close again. But with the support of his mother, Lizzie, a strong-minded woman with social ambitions, Benton embarked on what would be a long, awkward and episodic cultural /education.
Still in his teens, he enrolled at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, focusing on illustration and newspaper cartooning. But he soon became interested in painting and decided to head to Paris, where he landed with little money, no French and only a vague idea of how to wield a brush. He stayed for three years, splitting his time between copying old masters in the Louvre and immersing himself in a modern art scene that was, in the years before World War I, on the boil.
Benton's character, as depicted by Wolff at this point, will remain consistent: a combination of combative self-/confidence and profound uncertainty. In Paris, he played the roustabout bohemian to the hilt, wearing artsy clothes, acquiring a mistress, reading Ruskin and Hippo/lyte Taine, drinking all night, getting into fights. But his painting was shaky, as he tried out a range of styles -- Impressionism, Pointillism, Cubism, abstraction, one after the other, often in combination -- with dispiriting results. Whenever he felt he was on to something, he slapped himself down, in a self-destructive pattern that would take other forms later on.
The experimentation went on for years after he returned from Paris to the United States, this time to New York City. Yet once back on native turf, he gradually became a different, definite kind of artist, mostly through a process of rejection. Out went the Left Bank wardrobe, the mistresses, Ruskin and Taine, and interest in any European painters apart from old masters. He decided that he despised most modern art, and the artists who made it. Emboldened by newfound confidence, he insisted on sharing his views, as well as an enemies-list-in-formation -- Alfred Stieglitz and the young Stuart Davis topped it -- with whoever would listen.
It's possible to read all this as a defensive tactic, a pre-emptive repudiation of a game he suspected he had lost. At the same time, he was finally coming into his own. By the early 1920s, he had worked out a distinctive brand of stylized realism inspired in part by the twisty figures of Mannerist and Baroque artists like Jacopo Pontormo and El Greco. And he had found an application for that style in the vision of a populist, working-class America remembered from his childhood.
His timing was astute. As the decade went on, the country, fed up with the cosmopolitan excesses of the Jazz Age and heading toward economic disaster, began turning inward, searching its own history for sustaining narratives. Benton was on hand to paint those narratives.
In the early 1930s, when the country hit bottom, his profile was high, and many young painters sought him out at the Art Students League, where he taught. One of them was Pollock, who arrived in Manhattan in 1930, as ambitious and under/skilled as Benton had been in Paris. The two men bonded in a complicated, mentoring friendship, no doubt cemented by a mutual investment in alcohol, and a pumped-up machismo built on various personal insecurities.
It would be hard to guess, for example, from a 1922 self-portrait by Benton in which he appears buff, bare-chested, Hollywood-/handsome and towering heroically over his wife, that he was about 5-foot-6 and had had to bat away ''little man'' taunts all his life. Nor would you know from photo/graphs of a scowling, proto-Stanley Ko/walski Pollock that he was a cripplingly self-doubting mama's boy.
Some Pollock biographers have accused Benton of being a malign influence on the younger artist, though Wolff leaves the matter open. Pollock didn't need anyone to turn him into a basket case; he already was one. And surely he benefited from exposure to Benton's art. He imitated it early on, and an argument can be made that his famous drips were inspired by the sinuous lines of Benton's figures.
They parted ways, badly. No surprise. Strained and broken friendships were common in Benton's life. So were professional battles. Lucrative mural commissions came to him in the 1930s, but so did criticism. Leftists pointed to racial and ethnic stereotypes in a mural he did for the Whitney Museum of American Art. Conservatives objected to his inclusion of Ku Klux Klan figures in another mural, this one on the history of Indiana done for the 1933 Chicago World's Fair.
Leery of partisan ideology and ever sensitive to personal assault, real and imagined, Benton kept shifting his politics, from left to right and back, eventually hovering in a quasi-libertarian zone where, speaking in today's terms, the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street might meet. But then, everything about him was conflicted. He was an avid reader and writer who vilified intellectuals. He was critical of all centralized authority except his own autocratic theories of what art should or should not be. (It had to be rooted in social experience; it couldn't float free, be about itself.) He condemned capitalism but decorated corporate walls and presidential libraries. He claimed that his work honored the average American, yet his murals are laced with satirical figures of working people.
The more out of fashion he became, the more he drew attention to himself through words. He couldn't keep his mouth shut. In 1941, he was fired from his teaching position at the Kansas City Art Institute after describing the typical art museum as ''a graveyard run by a pretty boy with delicate wrists and a swing in his gait.'' And this homophobic slur was mild compared with others he made over the years.
Some biographies edit out ambiguity; they want us to love or loathe their subjects. Wolff takes the opposite tack. He lays out all of Benton's contrarieties, argues them through, prosecuting, defending, and usually leaves them as he found them. The Benton who emerges is not appealing, but neither is he simple, even though he spent much of his energy trying to be. He labored long to achieve a decisive narrowness -- he might have called it refinement or sharpness -- in his art, his persona and his social thought.
Wolff doesn't judge the result of that effort in absolute terms. But he does, as we see in glimpses, have feelings about the artist who produced them. He has a soft spot for Benton's art, and sometimes for the artist, as when he writes near the beginning of the book, ''Like anyone, Benton wanted to live in harmony with his time and place; that he often failed, or was misunderstood, is what makes his such a human story.'' But then he lets the story roll: a long, unharmonious tale of failures and misunderstandings created, as often as not, by Benton himself.
In the end, as if exhausted from trying to argue a balanced case, Wolff concludes that the self-damaging offensiveness with which Benton attacked the advanced new art of his day, and by extension a changing world, was simply ''sad more than anything else.'' It certainly was, at the very least, that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF THOMAS HART BENTON FROM THE MISSOURI DIVISION OF TOURISM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ART HISTORY (77%); HISTORY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: Thomas Hart Benton: A Life (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



11 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Mom, Dad, This Playground's for You

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
IT was a classic father-son moment, reversed: The 2-year-old sat and watched patiently as his parent hung upside down from the monkey bars. A few feet away, a white-haired man skipped across an S-shaped metal beam. Another man squeezed his six-foot frame onto a metal rack for situps, and two others hoisted themselves up chin-up bars.
Never mind the punishing diets, the gym dates and the doctors' warnings, the quest to live a healthier, more active lifestyle has come to this: playgrounds for adults.
New York City is testing its first such playground in Macombs Dam Park in the Bronx, and plans to bring as many as two dozen more to neighborhoods across the five boroughs in the next 18 months, park officials said. 
The goal is to lure people off their couches and into the outdoors with specially designed playground equipment -- in grown-up shades like forest green and beige -- that recall the joy of childhood play while tightening up flabby abs, thighs and triceps.
Though there are no swings or slides -- these are essentially outdoor gyms -- such playgrounds not only have the look of traditional children's play spaces, but they are also built in some cases by the same manufacturers.
The adult playground concept is borrowed from China and parts of Europe, where outdoor fitness areas for adults have become as routine as high-fiber diets or vitamin D supplements in preventive care, particularly for older people.
Now a growing number of city and park officials, health experts and community leaders throughout the country are praising the health and social benefits of adult playgrounds. They say that the playgrounds will succeed where treadmills have failed in combating rising rates of obesity and related illnesses by enticing the grown-ups out for play dates.
''Let's face it, most of us dread going to the gym,'' said Dr. David Ludwig, a Harvard Medical School professor who directs the Obesity Prevention Center at Boston Children's Hospital. ''The point is to make physical activity fun, easy and accessible, so it's the normal thing to do.''
Adult playgrounds have spread across the nation, including to Miami-Dade County in Florida, where four fitness zones with advanced strength-training equipment opened this year in neighborhoods with high rates of cardiovascular diseases. San Antonio has added outdoor fitness stations to 30 parks since 2010. Los Angeles has 30, with 15 more on the way, after park officials found, to their surprise, there were ''lines of people waiting to use the equipment.''
And two mothers in Washington State, Paige Dunn and Kelly Singer, started a grass-roots campaign last year to build ''Momentum'' sites to help new mothers shed their baby weight; each site would face a children's play area and hold seven pieces of equipment that specifically target problem areas. The women raised $30,000 to open the first one in Auburn, Wash; a second will be dedicated in Redmond, Wash., next month.
In New York City, where adults are banned from playgrounds unless accompanied by a child, the $200,000 Bronx playground with 15 pieces of equipment opened two years ago as part of an effort to get more people out to the parks to exercise and slim down. Parks officials said it had been popular enough that the city was now planning a rapid expansion.
''This represents a continuing evolution of both parks and playgrounds,'' said Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner.
This fall, the city will build a second adult playground with upgraded amenities -- river view, exercise mats, chess tables, a sign that says, ''Adult Space'' -- at John Jay Park on the Upper East Side. Councilwoman Jessica Lappin, who represents the neighborhood, said she had secured $250,000 in city money for the project after some of her older constituents pointed out, ''There are tot lots, but there's no place for us.''
''A lot of these people live alone,'' she said. ''So going outside to the park, and being part of the activity of the park, is important to them.''
About 150 spots in city parks have one or two pieces of old-fashioned adult fitness equipment, mostly static pieces like chin-up bars. And parks elsewhere have had fitness circuits for years, though usually they've been fairly modest. Many of the new adult playgrounds will have comprehensive workout areas and equipment with moving pieces.
As public policy, adult playgrounds have proved far easier to sell as an anti-obesity measure than, say, a proposed ban on large sodas. They produce almost no noise or car traffic, take up little space and are cheaper to build than children's playgrounds, though the cost varies depending on size and location.
''They're not controversial,'' said Michael Shull, a parks superintendent in Los Angeles, which spends an average of $40,000 on a site for adults, versus $300,000 for children. New York City's adult playgrounds will cost from $75,000 for the smallest one, with five pieces of equipment, to more than $200,000, park officials said. In contrast, children's playgrounds typically start at $500,000, with the majority running $1 million to $2 million.
The demand for adult-size equipment has created a niche business in an industry that once catered mainly to the elementary school set. GameTime, one of the largest manufacturers of children's playground equipment, introduced a new adult line in 2009 called iTrack, which includes elliptical trainers and rowing machines. Outdoor Fitness in Colorado has worked with more than 600 adult sites since 2005, according to Barry King, the founder. In addition to sites in public parks, the equipment is being installed at residential developments and business complexes.
Jim Sargen, a former technology executive who started TriActive America in California, which has supplied 470 adult sites since 2004, half in the past three years, said he discovered firsthand while traveling in Beijing in 2002 that exercise could be passed off as play. ''My wife, who doesn't normally exercise, climbed onto one of the pieces,'' he recalled. ''She said, 'It's kind of fun,' and an idea clicked.''
The adult playground in the Bronx, the city's poorest borough and a place dogged by troubling health statistics, is built on top of a parking garage and sandwiched between a track and basketball and handball courts. It has attracted regulars like Brian Ferreira, 20, who once tried working out at a children's playground near his home in Soundview, only to draw stares from the parents. Now he hops onto two trains and a bus, three times a week, to have a playground of his own. ''I use every piece of equipment,'' he said. ''It's good endurance training.''
On a recent morning, regulars and newcomers alike drifted onto the playground and waited patiently -- no tears or whining here -- to use the equipment; one of the most popular was a pair of metal seats that any child would have loved, rising and falling with the push of foot pedals.
The morning hours brought fathers with toddlers, and muscled older men who wore gloves and earphones and effortlessly executed situps, push-ups and pull-ups. They retreated when noisy teenagers passed through bouncing basketballs and running around the equipment without stopping to use any.
In the afternoon, a 30-year-old court clerk swung from the monkey bars during his lunch hour. Others just watched.
''Oh no, I'm past my prime,'' said Daren Trapp, a bus driver with a tummy bulge who was among the observers. ''It's out in the open, and I guess I'm a private individual.''
But Colette Prosper, an unemployed mother of five, and her daughter, Iesha, 21, came ready to sweat. It was their third time at the playground in a week; the first time, a stranger had to show them how to use the equipment. Ms. Prosper, 45, who said she was trying to lose 40 pounds, said her clothes were already feeling looser.
''It's a free membership, and I like what they have to offer,'' she said. ''I'm getting older, so I'm trying to get everything in shape.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROWN-UPS: New York City installed an adult playground at Macombs Dam Park in the Bronx. (MB1)
 OUTDOOR FITNESS: Rosie Hambery and Joanna Gonzalez, foreground, worked out in the Bronx in May. Officials say the adult playground is part of a plan to add as many as two dozen throughout the city in the next 18 months. The playgrounds are much cheaper to build than children's playgrounds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); OBESITY (76%); NUTRITION (76%); BARIATRICS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (67%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (65%); WEIGHTLIFTING (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



12 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Cities Balk As Federal Law On Marijuana Is Enforced

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
ARCATA, Calif. -- Faced with growing chaos in the state's medical marijuana industry, this city in Northern California passed an ordinance in 2008 that meticulously detailed, over 11 pages, how the drug could be grown and sold here.
Humboldt Medical Supply, a dispensary here in Humboldt County regarded as a law-abiding model that has given free cannabis to elderly patients, became the first to obtain a permit in 2010. The Sai Center, whose owner has a history of flouting city regulations and was described by the mayor as running his business ''purely for profit,'' was rejected last year.
Humboldt Medical quickly closed shop after federal prosecutors began shuttering hundreds of dispensaries in October in one of the biggest crackdowns on medical marijuana since its legalization in California in 1996. The Sai Center's owner moved locations and has defied the authorities by continuing to operate, most recently out of his mother's house. City officials, afraid of becoming targets themselves of the prosecutors, have suspended the applications of two other dispensaries that were expected to be approved.
''We feel the federal government's actions have had a very negative effect,'' said Mayor Michael Winkler. ''We're very upset with their actions.'' 
Like their counterparts in many other municipalities that have regulated medical marijuana on their own, Arcata officials say the federal offensive has brought renewed chaos to the medical marijuana industry. The federal authorities, their critics say, have indiscriminately targeted good and bad dispensaries, sometimes putting the best ones out of business. The crackdown, the critics say, has made it difficult for qualified Californians to obtain marijuana for medical use and is just pushing buyers into the black market.
Acting on federal law, which considers all possession and distribution of marijuana to be illegal, California's four United States attorneys, working with the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Internal Revenue Service, have shut down at least 500 dispensaries statewide in the last eight months by sending letters to operators, landlords and local officials, warning of criminal charges and the seizure of assets. The United States attorneys said the dispensaries were violating not only federal law but also state law, which requires operators to be primary caregivers to their customers and distribute marijuana only for medical purposes.
''We're not concerned in prosecuting patients or people who are legitimate caregivers for ill people, who are in good faith complying with state law,'' said Benjamin B. Wagner, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of California. ''But we are concerned about large commercial operations that are generating huge amounts of money by selling marijuana in this essentially unregulated free-for-all that exists in California.''
Because of the lack of regulation, it is difficult to know precisely how many dispensaries have shut down or even how many were in operation before the start of the current crackdown. But figures provided by three of California's four United States attorneys totaled more than 500: ''dozens'' in Mr. Wagner's district; 217 in the Southern District, in San Diego; and more than 200 in the Central District, in Los Angeles. Officials in the three districts say they have succeeded in putting out of business more than 90 percent of the dispensaries they have identified so far.
Declining to release figures was the United States attorney for the Northern District. The district includes San Francisco and Oakland, the two cities that have led the fight against the current federal offensive, as well as Arcata and other municipalities long known for their tolerance of marijuana.
Dan Rush, an official at the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, said about 650 out of the 1,400 marijuana dispensaries that existed last October have ceased operating. The union represents between 600 and 800 members working in statewide dispensaries, he said.
Except for San Francisco and Oakland, the roughly 50 municipalities with medical marijuana ordinances have suspended the administration of dispensaries, said Kris Hermes, a spokesman for Americans for Safe Access, a group that promotes access to medical marijuana. Though federal authorities have periodically gone after dispensaries since California became the first state to legalize marijuana for medical use, Mr. Hermes described the current crackdown as ''unprecedented'' because of its ''intensity'' and because of the number of dispensaries closed and federal agencies involved.
Prosecutors denied that legitimate patients were being driven to illegal sellers.
''Most often the individuals who are visiting these places have obtained sham doctor recommendations for really no purpose other than to engage in the recreational use of marijuana,'' Laura E. Duffy, the United States attorney for the Southern District, said of the dispensaries. ''To the extent that blatant distribution of marijuana is not available in commercial businesses throughout California, certainly in this district, I think that's a good thing.''
Here in Arcata -- a city of 17,000 people in a region of the state known as the Emerald Triangle, where the illegal marijuana trade has long been tolerated and is a pillar of the local economy -- government officials worried that counterparts in neighboring communities had received letters warning them against regulating the medical marijuana industry.
''They said they could prosecute city officials and staff,'' said Larry Oetker, a city official who oversaw the regulations on the dispensaries. ''That was a dramatic change.''
Under the ordinance here, the city approved the permit of Humboldt Medical Supply, an ''exemplary'' dispensary according to Mayor Winkler. Greg Allen, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union who represented the dispensary, said its staff included a nurse and rigorously screened customers to ensure that they had legitimate conditions that required treatment with marijuana.
By contrast, the city rejected the application of the Sai Center, which has violated city regulations, including advertising its services and letting customers mill around its premises. Its owner, Stephen Gasparas, exhibited ''an extremely hostile attitude'' at city hearings for his application, the mayor said.
''He was very contemptuous of any government regulation of this at all,'' the mayor said. ''He seemed really to be in it for the money. If he also had any commitments to patients, I wasn't aware of that.''
But federal prosecutors sent warning letters to the owners of the two dispensaries, as well as their landlords, citing their proximity to a ballpark, city officials said. Humboldt Medical Supply, which had been struggling financially, ceased operating. But Mr. Gasparas moved five blocks away to a house owned by his mother and quickly resumed business.
On a recent afternoon, an employee was working out of a single room in the back of the blue, single-story house, sitting behind a large desk, surrounded by marijuana plants and three large safes. Through the employee, Mr. Gasparas declined to be interviewed.
The employee, who declined to give his name but said he was majoring in botany at Humboldt State University here, said the federal offensive was ''all political.'' The dispensary, he said, was helping the ill who would otherwise buy marijuana from ''an unsafe source.'' He said he himself first obtained a doctor's approval to use medical marijuana because he had anxiety.
At the Humboldt Patient Resource Center, one of the two dispensaries whose application was delayed because of the federal crackdown, a steady stream of customers -- young men but also middle-aged men and women -- came in to buy various strains of marijuana, including those called Blue Dream, Lemon Diesel and Oh Sour Head, at $40 for an eighth of an ounce.
Mariellen Jurkovich, the dispensary's director, said she had spent $200,000 to comply with the city's marijuana ordinance. Federal prosecutors had not sent her a warning letter, but she remained worried.
''Even if I eventually get a permit from the city, I don't think I'm protected as long as the federal law doesn't change,'' she said. ''I don't know who they'll go after and why.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Medical marijuana at the Humboldt Patient Resource Center in Arcata, Calif. Officials in Arcata and other cities that have ordinances regulating the industry are now at odds with federal prosecutors, who began shuttering dispensaries in October. (A14)
 Kevin Jodrey, above, with patients at the Humboldt Patient Resource Center in Arcata, Calif. City officials, wary of a federal crackdown on the medical marijuana industry, have delayed the center's application. Left, a center employee at work. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) MAP: More than 500 dispensaries have closed in eight months. (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MARIJUANA (92%); CANNABIS (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ASSET FORFEITURE (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (56%); AGING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



13 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: From Dot-Com to Dot-Co

BYLINE: By JUAN DIEGO CALLE. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
I WAS born and raised in Bogota, Colombia. We fled when I was 15 after my cousin was kidnapped during turmoil in Colombia in the early 1990s. I came home from school one day, and my parents said we had to pack our bags and leave home the next morning.
A week later, we were living in Miami, where my father continued to look after his agriculture wholesale business from afar. I started at a new school right away. After two years, in 1994, my parents returned to Bogota, but my brother, sister and I stayed at our family's home in Florida to complete our educations. 
I've always had a strong entrepreneurial bent, starting when I was 12 and sold sandwiches out of my locker at my Bogota middle school. I wound up having to hire someone to supply enough sandwiches to keep up with my hungry classmates. In high school in Miami, I started a custom stereo business in our garage. I was probably unpopular with the neighbors because my friends and I used to race down the street, blasting our elaborate stereo systems with their huge speakers.
After graduating from high school in 1996, I enrolled at the University of Miami to study industrial engineering. As part of a business class project, I started the search engine TeRespondo.com, which translates as ''I'll Answer You.'' Caught up in the dot-com excitement, I raised money from friends and family and hired 10 employees but the company nearly went bankrupt. It was March 2001, and the Internet bubble had burst.
With minimal resources, my co-founders and I decided to start all over again. I had left school in order to manage the company and lost my student visa. My application for an investor visa was denied three times, so I moved to Sao Paulo, Brazil, one of our fastest-growing markets. After a year there, I returned to Miami, with a visa. By 2005, with a team of 55 people, TeRespondo was among the largest search-advertising networks in Latin America, and Yahoo acquired us.
After selling the company, I enrolled in the owner-president management program at Harvard Business School the next year. That was a great opportunity to meet interesting entrepreneurs and executives during the three weeks a year we gathered on campus. I graduated in 2007.
At the same time, I started my next venture, Straat Investments, and made several real estate investments, most of which turned out to be a total bust. Luckily, we had also invested in some digital real estate, also known as premium domain names, which were great deals. Today, these domain names are part of a network of travel Web sites that include ParisHotels.com, LondonHotels.com and NewYorkHotels.com.
My light-bulb moment came in 2007, when a colleague mentioned that Colombia's government was exploring how to commercialize its ''.co'' domain extension beyond its borders. It was clear to me that the .co suffix would appeal to businesses that needed a Web address but could not find one at .com. In July 2010, I won the contract to operate .co and to commercialize it globally. I formed .CO Internet, and now it and the travel site network are subsidiaries of Straat, where I am the chairman.
In the last year, more than one million users in 200 countries have registered .co domain names. Among them are well-known companies like Google, which uses g.co to market products like its Internet-connected eyeglasses (g.co/projectglass).
It's interesting how life takes turns. I was able to help my home country by using the life and business experience I acquired living in my new country. Along the way, I married my high school sweetheart, the love of my life, Christina. We are the proud parents of a beautiful 2-year-old girl, with another baby on the way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JUAN DIEGO CALLE: Chief executive of .CO Internet SAS, an Internet domain company HEADQUARTERS: Miami AGE: 34 LIKES TO: Compete in triathlons (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); ENGINEERING (66%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (67%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



14 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Against the Grain

BYLINE: By TAMAR ADLER. 
Tamar Adler is the author of ''An Everlasting Meal: Cooking With Economy and Grace.''

 BODY:
WHITE BREAD
A Social History of the Store-Bought Loaf
By Aaron Bobrow-Strain
257 pp. Beacon Press. $27.95.
''And the house of Israel called its name Manna: and it was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it like wafers made with honey.''
Bread, the food that symbolizes our bodily, intellectual and spiritual lives, must do one thing. It must sustain us. This has been true forever. In the Paleolithic age, we ground plant roots with stones and made coarse cakes. Ancient Egyptians baked theirs in ovens and ate so many loaves that Greeks called them ''artophagoi,'' or ''bread eaters.'' In the Middle Ages, we used sturdy slices of barley-/wheat bread as edible plates, which we would either lick clean and crack with tough teeth, or feed to our cats and dogs.
Until the invention of the iron roll mill in the 19th century, bread, if it was available, did its job. Wheat was milled by stone wheels, its nutritious germ and starchy endosperm ground together into dark, nutty flour. The iron roller, though, squeezed the germ off, leaving behind only its pale, starchy ghost. 
Today, not only does our bread not sustain us, it can barely feed us safely. Animals and humans fed exclusively on white bread quickly sicken. Studies repeatedly advise against its consumption. A divinely inspired writer long ago imagined this stuff, but without providing a good name: ''And when I have broken the staff of your bread, . . . you shall eat, and not be satisfied.''
How we ended up with bread that is not bread is the ostensible subject of ''White Bread: A Social History of the Store-Bought Loaf,'' by Aaron Bobrow-Strain, an associate professor of politics at Whitman College. I say ''ostensible'' because he writes: ''This isn't really a book about the history of bread. It's a book about what happens when dreams of good society and fears of social decay get tangled up in campaigns for 'good food.' ''
That's clogged and academic, but Bobrow-/Strain wants to tell a cautionary tale -- and clogged and academic is often how those sound. ''What happens'' is evident: We end up without our dietary mainstay and without a good word for what we have.
''So what can we learn from this history?'' he asks. ''Or, more urgently, how can reflecting on what now seem like strange and outdated efforts to change America through its bread inform the way we think about food today?''
That depends. ''White Bread'' is smart, though disorganized, in showing how the industrial loaf was repeatedly adapted as a hasty nostrum for the philosophic or bodily ailment of the day.
At the turn of the 20th century, urbanization outpaced civic infrastructure. Most bread was baked at home, but in dank city bakeries, bakers worked around the clock in squalor, making loaves for a growing labor class. Months after the 1906 release of Upton Sinclair's book ''The Jungle,'' Chicago's lead health inspector proclaimed sanitary conditions in its bakeries to be like those in ''the worst of the packing houses.''
A frightened public fixated -- with encouragement from city officials and shrewd advertisers -- not on labor law or social services, but on cleaner bread. It would be produced by machines, with tired, diseased hands kept away. The hygienic Ward Bakery, the country's largest, opened in Brooklyn in 1910. And instead of social reform, we got bread that did not rely on society.
The association between baking and germs became fixed in our minds -- as it has recently between butchery and germs. Public alarm over disease turned into alarm over the safety of bread's distribution. Ordinances were passed requiring that all bread be wrapped. Big bakeries that could afford wrapping machines seized their advantage and fanned anxieties. Smaller bakeries were forced to close.
Plastic-wrapped loaves were impossible to really see or smell, so we did what we could, and squeezed. And so softness became a proxy for freshness. On the industrialization marched: the softer loaves were too squooshy to slice neatly at home, and mechanical slicing was born.
Enriched white bread was invented as an antidote to its own poison. Recovering from the Depression and getting more calories from industrial white bread than from any other food, Americans suffered vitamin deficiencies and malnutrition. In the same wobbly boat, Britain mandated its flour be milled with its germ still included; the country's loaves were tougher, but healthy. America's nutritional and business establishments chose to synthetically enrich our pillowy loaves with thiamin, niacin and iron.
There are lessons to learn from all this: Squalid bakeries and malnutrition are indicative, evidence of larger problems. So is bread too soft to slice. So are fruits and vegetables, less nutritious today than they used to be, and our meat, milk and eggs, regularly incriminated in pathogenic outbreaks.
But Bobrow-Strain's deliberations don't teach. He neglects to point out industrial bread's contemporary counterparts: governmental and business interests that collude, in whatever spirit, to manufacture both problem and solution, about whose influence on our food we must stay clear-eyed and diligent. Instead, he tosses up a red herring: ''Fluffy white industrial bread may be about as far from the /ideals of slow, local, organic and health food reformers as you can get today. But, in many ways, we owe its very existence to a string of just as well-meaning efforts to improve the way America ate.''
And there, his opportunity to say something scurries away.
The story of white bread may contain rare instances of well-meaning but misguided efforts. It contains many more stories of irresponsibly deployed technology, corporate greed and public welfare placed in the hands of distant stakeholders.
The Ward Bakery, which eventually became the company that made Wonder bread, adopted discoveries in microbiology and grain chemistry at the expense of quality. It engineered corporate social-work double talk, claiming to contribute to its communities while keeping costs down through labor abuse. Like other industrial giants of the period, Bobrow-Strain writes, it ''pioneered the economic model of mergers and oligopoly that would define the industry for the rest of the century.''
The ignored parallels to what is happening to our food today are glaring and pitiable. They are everywhere: regulations devised to protect consumers have instead benefited behemoth slaughterhouses and contributed to the consolidation of the meat industry, leaving what happens to animals -- and their meat -- in the hands of very few. Something like the white bread enrichment debacle is under way with the chemical sanitizing of lettuce.
Pretending that anything in our diets is a problem to which solutions can be sold is in the interest of companies that plan to profit from them. Diet soda and 100-calorie bags of chips are examples of opportunistic treatment of symptoms. In light of this, Bobrow-Strain's continuous, shrill bleating about farmers' market folk -- their ''rampant elitism'' and ''narrow visions of what counts as 'good food' '' -- is bizarre.
In ''White Bread'' all beliefs about bread stem from a dream. The word is used so frequently it loses meaning. We have ''dreams of 'good bread,' '' but these are dreams of bad bread. They are often the same as dreams of purity and contagion, control and abundance, health and discipline, defense, peace, security and status. The dreams Bobrow-Strain concocts are symptoms of our having twisted a version of the American dream that would have kept bread safe into a nightmare in which haves and have-nots are divided by the greatest margin ever: our poorest eat bread that makes them sick, and our richest eat no bread at all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM SALLY EDELSTEIN COLLAGE (AVISCO CELLOPHANE ADVERTISEMENT, 1958)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CATS (68%); DOGS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: White Bread: A Social History of the Store-Bought Loaf (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



15 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: End It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Matthew Bishop's review of Paul Krugman's ''End This Depression Now!'' (June 17) praises the Bowles-Simpson ''plan.'' Almost immediately after their appointments as co-chairs of the fiscal commission in early 2010, Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson expressed their enmity to Social Security and Medicare as drivers of budget deficits. 
However, in the final report, they sang a new tune. After a hymn to the majesty and importance of Social Security, misleading statements about its funding and a litany of benefit reductions, the co-chairs recommended: ''Reform Social Security for its own sake, and not for deficit reduction.''
That doesn't sell; polls repeatedly show support for raising program revenues in preference to benefit cuts. Majorities of Democrats, Republicans and independents are in that camp; even Tea Partiers oppose reductions. The House recently rejected a budget based on Bowles-Simpson by a vote of 382 to 38. In a democracy, such voter manifestations merit more respect than either Bishop or the media demonstrate.
JOAN BERNSTEIN MERTON BERNSTEIN Brewster, Mass. Joan Bernstein is a national board member of OWL, the Older Women's League; Merton Bernstein served as the principal consultant to the 1982-83 National Commission on Social Security Reform. They are co-authors of ''Social Security: The System That Works.''
To the Editor:
Matthew Bishop asks ''whether Barack Obama will enter the polls with unemployment above or below the 8 percent rate that usually means defeat for an incumbent president.'' Yet Franklin Delano Roosevelt, for one, was re-elected with much higher rates of unemployment.
The right question is how many incumbent presidents have actually run for re-election with 8 percent unemployment: since 1942 there have been none. The closest case was Gerald Ford in 1976; he lost, but he had not been elected. Therefore, we don't know what happens when there is more than 8 percent unemployment, whether or not this has any significant (or decisive) influence on the election. For this year's election, Roosevelt's case is indeed pertinent.
JOSEP COLOMER Washington The writer is a professor of political science at Georgetown University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WRITERS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); POLITICS (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OLDER WOMEN'S LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: ERSKINE BOWLES (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



16 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW AMERICAN JOB; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: A Jobs Boom Built on Sweat In an Age of Belt-Tightening

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Want to know what the job of the future looks like? Go to the gym.
Phillip Hoskins did, but not to work out. He went to find clients, and to join the ranks of personal trainers, one of the fastest-growing American occupations.
''I knew I didn't want a desk job,'' said Mr. Hoskins, of Louisville, Ky., who became a personal trainer after being let go, after 17 years, from a middle-management position at a car repair shop in December. ''I'm pretty fit for 51 years old, and I knew I could do something with that.''
Once stereotyped as the domain of bodybuilders and gym devotees, personal training is drawing the educated and uneducated; the young and old; men and women; the newly graduated, the recently laid-off and the long retired.
From 2001 to 2011, the number of personal trainers grew by 44 percent, to 231,500, while the overall number of workers fell by 1 percent, according to the Labor Department. 
It is no wonder that so many Americans are trying to transform a passion for fitness into a new career.
Personal training requires many of the skills and qualities of the new typical middle-class American job: it is a personal service that cannot be automated or sent offshore, that caters to a wealthier client base and that is increasingly subsidized (in this case, by employers and insurance companies).
But as people with such jobs have found, the pay is low. Unlike the clock-in-and-clock-out middle-class jobs of the past, personal service occupations have erratic hours, require entrepreneurial acumen and offer little job security.
''The kind of job where you come in and work 9 to 5, and where someone tells you what to do all day is becoming scarcer and scarcer,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson, an economics professor at M.I.T. and co-author of ''Race Against the Machine,'' a book about how automation is changing the job market. ''The kind of job where you have to hustle and hustle and where you're not sure whether you will have enough clients next month, where you have less job security, is becoming much more common.''
For personal trainers, the median hourly wage is less than $15. Because they have to find clients and set up their businesses, trainers must be flexible, adapting to client schedules and physical abilities, as well as the availability of exercise machines and accommodating weather.
They must also be able to engage with all sorts of personalities -- precisely the skills that help keep these jobs around while others are replaced by algorithms.
''Knowing how to keep someone motivated and how to keep a connection are skills humans have learned and evolved over hundreds of thousands of years,'' Professor Brynjolfsson said. ''A robot can't figure out whether you can do one more push-up, or how to motivate you to actually do it.''
Donna Martin, 69, of Orlando, Fla., recently became a personal trainer after having been retired for 25 years. She mostly works with clients over age 60. ''I think my age actually helps me get clients,'' she said.
Another reason for the surge in personal trainers -- as well as home health aides and other midskill service occupations -- is that the barriers to entry are low.
The industry is mostly unregulated, with private organizations rather than governments issuing certifications. Once upon a time, some certification organizations required bachelor's degrees and intensive study; now dozens of groups offer ever cheaper and easier certifications to serve the fitness boom.
The fitness industry has been growing steadily in good economies and bad, with American health clubs adding about 10 million members since the recession officially began in 2007, according to the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association.
Facing a sea of options, Mr. Hoskins chose an online test that cost $60 by Action, an organization founded in 2008. Action is not accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies, the group the industry uses to vet such certifications, though, and he could not find a local gym that recognized the credential.
He is now studying for a more in-depth test from an older group, the American Council on Exercise, and trying to train clients on his own until he can qualify to work for a gym. The study materials and test cost about $500.
Some older certifying organizations favor more regulation because they see the industry maturing and fear that increasing numbers of new trainers with less experience will dilute the reputation of trainers in general.
''We are really trying to professionalize this industry, and state-by-state licensure may be what we need,'' said Mike Clark, the chief executive of the National Academy of Sports Medicine and a licensed physical therapist. ''Right now, the gyms really don't want that, though, because they're already having trouble finding enough trainers with just the current system.''
In a country with a 35.7 percent obesity rate, potential customers are plentiful, at least in theory.
But personal training, like other personal services, is increasingly freelance. Most trainers drum up their own business. It does not help that trainers must persuade strangers to pay to do something they probably do not like to do: exercise.
''I've got a Web site, a blog, a Twitter account, a Facebook feed, an e-mail blast, basically any kind of social media I can find to get the word out there,'' said Mark Spurbeck, 28, of Eagan, Minn., a college graduate with a degree in English and history. He got his certification in May but is still primarily working as a Web site designer.
''I've been telling my friends: 'Let's work out for free. Don't worry about paying me. My only fee is telling your other friends to hire me,' '' he said.
So far he has two paying clients, whom he trains at their homes.
Mr. Spurbeck has considered working at a gym, where possible clients would at least all be in one place. But his local gyms, he said, generally take a 50 percent commission on all sessions, and would require him to be there eight hours a day regardless of whether he had clients booked.
That is because many gyms use trainers as recruiters for their own clients, even though knowing how to do the perfect pull-up does not necessarily translate into good salesmanship.
''A lot of people have the passion for the training and helping people, but then they get in that environment and then they just don't know how to sell themselves to clients,'' Mr. Spurbeck said. ''I know a lot of trainers who are doing more sales than actually training.''
The incentive structure at gyms has evolved to further prioritize salesmanship over formal credentials.
''Back 10 years ago, pay was based purely on education,'' said David Van Daff, the vice president for membership at the National Academy of Sports Medicine, who said he had hired more than 12,000 trainers as a manager at Bally Total Fitness, a national gym chain. ''The structure has changed at a lot of gyms, where now it's based more on productivity -- how many hours you've already booked.''
As for Mr. Hoskins, he continues trying to find clients while he studies for certification.
''I've been talking to people through my church mostly,'' he said. ''It's going to have to be word of mouth at this point. All that's up to me is I have to perform when I do find them.''
The New American Job: Articles in this series are looking at the changing nature of occupations and careers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Spurbeck, who got his personal trainer certification in May, working with a client. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Above, Phillip Hoskins of Louisville, Ky., became a personal trainer after losing his job in December. At right, Donna Martin, also new to being a personal trainer, mostly works with people over 60. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA SHOEMAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mark Spurbeck working at home. He trains friends free. ''My only fee is telling your other friends to hire me,'' he tells them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PERSONAL SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEIGHTLIFTING (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); INSURANCE (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); WRITERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



17 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: American Issue

BYLINE: By ANTHONY GOTTLIEB. 
Anthony Gottlieb is writing a sequel to his book ''The Dream of Reason: A History of Philosophy From the Greeks to the Renaissance.''

 BODY:
AMERICA THE PHILOSOPHICAL
By Carlin Romano
Illustrated. 672 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
The French are wittier than the Spanish, and the English know more than the Danes. The ancient Athenians were ingenious and polite, but modern Greeks are stupid and indolent. Jews are noted for fraud, of course, and Armenians for probity. Or so it seemed in 1742 to David Hume when he wrote an essay, not his best, on national characters.
What about Americans? Hume, a Scottish philosopher and historian, never said what he made of the colonists, though he later supported their cause. He would surely have been startled by Carlin Romano's claim in this ambitious new book that Americans are outstandingly philosophical. Romano was a literary critic with The Philadelphia Inquirer for a quarter of a century and has also been a professor of philosophy. He presumably enjoyed this latter job, because he writes that today's America is the best place to do philosophy that there has ever been, surpassing even the Athens of those ingenious and polite men Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. In one fit of enthusiastic chauvinism he goes yet further, and announces that it is the ''perfectly designed environment'' to ply his trade, as if no greater intellectual paradise could be imagined. 
This news will not provide much comfort to declinists who feel the political and economic hegemony of the United States to be fading fast. But perhaps it will help a little. Let deficits grow, good jobs disappear and China loom -- hang it all, America will always have world-beating epistemology and metaphysics up its sleeve. Well, maybe that isn't quite fair to Romano, because his claim depends on redefining the term ''philosophy,'' giving it a nebulous meaning that embraces far more than is taught under that name in universities. (More later about this revisionist wordplay.) Also, one part of his case is convincing, and oddly still worth making: America is not nearly so /dumbed down as its detractors at home like to say.
''Idiot America: How Stupidity Became a Virtue in the Land of the Free,'' ''Unscientific America: How Scientific Illiteracy Threatens Our Future'' and ''The Age of American Unreason'' are just three of the books from American writers in the past five years that belabor religious fundamentalism, conservative talk shows, scientific illiteracy or the many available flavors of junk food for thought. The fallacy of such books, as Romano argues, is that they take some rotten parts for the largely nutritious whole. It's not so much that they compare American apples with foreign oranges, but that they fail to acknowledge that the United States is an enormous fruit bowl. Everything is to be found in it, usually in abundance, including a vibrant intellectual life. Rather like that of India -- which has over a third of the planet's illiterate adults but also one of the largest university systems in the world -- the intellectual stature of America eludes simple generalizations.
More than half of ''America the Philosophical'' is an encyclopedic survey of the life of the mind in the United States, in which Romano usefully draws on decades of cultural journalism and some 190 interviews conducted over the years. There are sections on, among many other things, literary critics, political theorists, mathematicians, broadcasters, science writers and purveyors of unhelpfully vapid self-help. (Romano does not emphasize the fact that these last two categories are starting to overlap.) As an illustration of the futuristic thrust of America's cultural milieu, Romano also reports on a battery of what he calls ''cyberphilosophers.'' Many of these are the excitable folk who inhabit the world of Wired magazine, that sunny upland where it is always tomorrow. But more sober observers of technology are here, too. We learn that William Gibson, the sci-fi novelist who coined the term ''cyberspace,'' does not much like computers.
The formerly marginalized groups of African-Americans, women, Native Americans and gays have a chapter each; two-thirds of this space is devoted to the chapter on women, one of the richest in the book, which features Ayn Rand, Hannah Arendt, Susan Sontag, Camille Paglia, Martha Nussbaum and a host of lesser-known thinkers. The chapter titled ''Gays'' is padded out with Ludwig Wittgenstein, even though he made just two brief visits to America, and Romano has virtually nothing to say about the bearing of his sexuality on his work. Everyone is included, and so, sometimes, is a little too much journalistic color. The exceptional modesty of John Rawls, America's greatest political philosopher, was worth recording: he once declined an interview with Romano because ''I wouldn't want to be seen as promoting my book.'' But do we need to know the model number of Sontag's stereo amplifier? Such a detail might have been more at home in the pages about Hugh Hefner.
Romano is enlightening when he analyzes American intellectual life and illustrates its liveliness. He does little, though, to compare it with that of other countries. Is there much more to America's pre-eminence than the volume of cultural and scholarly products that one might expect from the free world's largest economy? Romano seems to think that there is, and that America's distinctive winning formula is mainly a down-to-earth approach to life, though the place's diversity also plays a role. This brings us to his refashioning of the concept of philosophy, a stratagem that yields the curious result (among others) that Americans are by nature splendid /''philosophers.''
Socrates, Plato and Aristotle are not the founders and titans of philosophy, according to Romano; rather, they hijacked it. The notion of philosophia was fluid in Plato's time, and Romano wishes that the usage and practice of the less famous Isocrates, a rhetorician and educationalist, had caught on instead of that of his slightly younger contemporary. Isocrates (''A Man, Not a Typo,'' as Romano headlines him) wrote that ''it is far superior to have decent judgments about useful matters than to have precise knowledge about useless things.'' For him, philosophy was the imprecise art of public deliberation about important matters, not a logic-/chopping attempt to excavate objective truths. Isocrates, Romano says, ''incarnates the contradictions, pragmatism, ambition, bent for problem solving and getting things done that mark Americans,'' and his conception of philosophy ''jibes with American pragmatism and philosophical practice far more than Socrates' view.'' Romano writes sorely of ''the triumph of Plato and Aristotle in excluding Isocrates from the philosophical tradition'' and announces that ''Isocrates should be as famous as Socrates.''
My first thought about this claim was that it is simply nuts, which is also my considered view. Romano offers no explanation of how Plato and Aristotle managed to achieve the nefarious feat of obliterating the wonderful Isocrates. The only demonstrable sense in which they excluded him from the philosophical tradition is that their work eclipsed his, just as the music of Johann Sebastian Bach eclipsed that of his older brother Johann Jacob. Puzzled by Romano's high estimation of the relevance of Isocrates, even to the broadest conception of philosophy, I reread some of his discourses and emerged none the wiser, though I did remember why I had so quickly forgotten him the first time around. Where are Isocrates' penetrating treatments of the soul, virtue, justice, knowledge, truth, art, perception, psychology, logic, mathematics, action, space or time? And if philosophy would be better off not trying to talk about such things, what exactly should it be talking about? Romano endorses the aims of Richard Rorty, a maverick American thinker who died in 2007. Rorty had urged philosophers to abandon their intellectual hubris and instead content themselves with interminably swapping enlightening tales from diverse perspectives. It was never quite clear why anyone would want to listen to such stories without endings.
What of the idea that Americans are inherently practical? Many of the country's best-known intellectuals have certainly liked to think of themselves that way. America's principal homegrown school of philosophy is, after all, the pragmatism of C. S. Peirce, William James and John Dewey, which was born at Harvard in the 1870s. According to pragmatism, our theories should be judged by their practical value rather than by their accuracy in representing the world. The ultimate fate of this idea was neatly put by a great American philosophical wit, Sidney Morgenbes/ser, who said it was all very well in theory, but didn't work in practice. He meant that pragmatism sounds like a good ruse, but it emerges as either trivial or incoherent when you try to flesh it out. There are weaker strains of philosophical pragmatism, which investigate the meaning of our concepts by looking at how we use them. But this idea is mainly the property of Wittgenstein, who may have been gay but was certainly not /American.
Romano's epilogue hails President Obama as America's ''philosopher in chief,'' on account of his mental suppleness, eloquence, intellectuality and, of course, his ''pragmatism.'' Unfortunately, an intellectual is just the kind of person many Americans don't seem to want in charge, which presents a problem for Romano's thesis, even if this particular /philosopher-king's reign should happen to be extended in November. Also, politics is one arena in which Americans do not appear, to this foreign observer, to be especially practical-/minded at the moment. They seem disfigured by tribal dogmatism, and thus not well constituted to devise utilitarian solutions to everyday problems. But perhaps the game of national stereotyping has gone on long enough. Romano notes that Americans embrace contradictions, so let's just say that the place is smart and dumb, pragmatic and windy, healthy and sick, and still a popular country to move to.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ''THRESHING WHEAT,'' 1938-1939 BY THOMAS HART BENTON, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED T.H. BENTON AND R.P. BENTON TESTAMENTARY TRUSTS/UMB BANK TRUSTEE -- LICENSED BY VAGA, NEW YORK) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CHRISTOPHER BRAND) (BR14
 BR15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); HISTORY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); LITERATURE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); WRITERS (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (69%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (65%); FUNDAMENTALISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); GREECE (88%)

TITLE: America the Philosophical (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



18 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Dreams of Prosperity

BYLINE: By T. J. STILES. 
T. J. Stiles is the author of ''The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt,'' which won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award. He is writing a biography of George Armstrong Custer.

 BODY:
A DISPOSITION TO BE RICH
How a Small-Town Pastor's Son Ruined an American President, Brought on a Wall Street Crash, and Made Himself the Best-Hated Man in the United States
By Geoffrey C. Ward
Illustrated. 418 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $28.95.
Millions of Americans loved Ulysses S. Grant, but, as so often with love, the relationship can be hard to understand from the outside. Grant did not woo the public. A rumpled man, he seemed shorter than he was. When he opened his mouth, cigars and whiskey went in, but few words came out. His critics, then and now, have disagreed over whether he should be condemned primarily as a brute of a general or a dupe of a president.
To those who adored him, he looked rather different. He and Lincoln saved the Union in the Civil War, but only Grant lived to receive the nation's thanks. And he won without ego. ''There was no nonsense, no sentiment,'' wrote one private, ''only a plain businessman of the Republic.'' The newspaperman Charles A. Dana called Grant ''the most honest man I ever knew, with a temper that nothing could disturb.'' 
One man did disturb that temper. Grant would dig his fingernails into the armrests of his chair at the thought of him, and told a friend he wanted to kill him, ''as I would a snake. I believe I should do it, too, but I do not wish to be hanged for the killing of such a wretch.'' When Grant died a year later, on July 23, 1885, the public blamed that ''wretch,'' who pitied himself as ''the best-hated man in the United States.''
His name was Ferdinand Ward. In 1880, when just 28, he had persuaded the former president to become a partner in Grant & Ward, a Wall Street brokerage house. Ward reported astonishing profits, occasionally doling out cash to his partners. Grant believed he was rich. In reality, Ward was running a Ponzi scheme. In 1884, it blew up, bankrupting Grant and his family.
The author of this elegant new biography of Ward, ''A Disposition to Be Rich,'' is his great-grandson. For decades, Geoffrey C. Ward has told Americans stories of their ancestors. He has edited American Heritage, collaborated with the filmmaker Ken Burns and written esteemed books like ''A First-Class Temperament: The Emergence of Franklin Roosevelt'' and ''Unforgivable Blackness: The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson.'' All this time, he has freighted about a box of letters, preserved by his grandfather, documenting the fall of his earnest family because of one remorseless son.
In telling this personal tale, Ward applies his characteristic scrupulousness and narrative skill. Vivid, living people swarm the pages. Ferdinand Ward's quarrelsome father, the Rev. Ferdinand Ward, went to evangelize India as a young man. Told that missionaries should die on the spiritual battlefield, he concluded that it might be an excellent policy for his detested colleagues though not for himself, and returned to wage doctrinal battles in a small church in Geneseo, N.Y.
Ward's mother, Jane Shaw Ward, was pious, nervous and depressed. Young ''Ferd'' was often alone with her in ''the dark parsonage,'' Geoffrey Ward writes. ''It was fragrant with spices imported in wooden boxes from India, but the carpets and curtains and furnishings were drab and worn, shabby testimony to the truth of his mother's teaching: no one should expect virtue, no matter how conspicuous, ever to be rewarded in this world.''
Many more people appear: Ward's honest brother, William, and his collaborator James D. Fish; not to mention actresses and mistresses and Samuel Clemens. Even characters who play no role receive scrutiny, often in extensive footnotes. When a letter mentions Gen. Artemas Ward, the author recounts the general's resentment of George Washington and his troubles with gout.
Perhaps this book follows family members at excessive length, but from them we get the truest picture of Ferdinand Ward. ''It is hard to trust his word or confide in him as to anything,'' the Rev. Ferdinand Ward wrote of him to another of his children. ''This we know too well. There is no use denying it.'' But when Grant & Ward appeared to thrive, the prodigal repainted the dark parsonage and stuffed it with gifts, and they doubted their doubts. Money made them believe -- or want to.
''He was born into a time when all young men of his age caught the fever of speculation,'' Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner wrote in 1873, the year Ward arrived on Wall Street, ''and expected to get on in the world by the omission of some of the regular processes which have been appointed from of old.'' Twain and Warner were describing a character in their novel, ''The Gilded Age,'' but they could have been writing about everyone Ward met.
Grant was not the only victim, nor was he unusual in trusting Ward. The young man sensed something in the culture. In this era of Wall Street's flowering, people believed that money could be conjured from the air.
Ward knew that finance is a universe of the imagination, floating above the real economy of services and stuff. Prices bounce with each emotion. Any fear can be boxed as a derivative. The entrepreneur and swindler both create dreams of what might be, then convert them into stocks and bonds -- optimism in its marketable form. ''How much confidence you give me, so much hope do I give you,'' Melville's confidence man declares. Any founder of a start-up could say the same.
''Credit'' is money talk for ''I believe you.'' Good credit makes dreams as real as bricks, as long as credit lasts. Anyone who sold Enron's stock before it burst made a lawful profit. It must be so, for the honest fantasy needs time to grow into substance. Augustus Melmotte, Anthony Trollope's financier in ''The Way We Live Now,'' describes ''the nature of credit, how strong it is, -- as the air, -- to buoy you up; how slight it is, -- as a mere vapor, -- when roughly touched.''
Roughly or gently, the touch must come. The underlying reality of business, of profits and losses, eventually makes itself felt. A hoax can't hide forever.
Ah, but in the dark space between anticipation and realization, the swindler thrives. In the 19th century, when few regulations threw light on hidden places, fraud not only flourished, but it was not always fraud. In 1866, for example, Daniel Drew engaged in huge insider trading as treasurer of the Erie Railway. He sold its stock short, forced the price down and profited at his own shareholders' expense. It was perfectly legal. On Wall Street, Charles Francis Adams Jr. wrote, the operation was ''regarded as a masterpiece.''
This was the environment for Ferdinand Ward, who worshiped luxury and lied reflexively. His ultimate crime was that his crime was too simple: ''I had to rob Peter to pay Paul.'' No market manipulation -- just theft. He himself was no more complicated. Convicted and imprisoned, he cadged money and bribed guards. On release, he kidnapped his own son to steal his trust fund.
Geoffrey Ward finds complexity elsewhere, especially in the dying Grant. Racked with agony from terminal cancer, he wearily wrote his life out to rescue his family's finances with a memoir -- a brilliant, landmark memoir. And he revealed unsuspected depths. ''The fact is I think I am a verb instead of a personal pronoun,'' he told his doctor. ''A verb is anything that signifies to be; to do; or to suffer. I signify all three.''
In such self-awareness and intelligence, such grace when faced with pain and death, we feel the weight of Ward's crime. And we, too, learn to love Grant.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: ''The Prison Barber Shop,'' by B. Gillam, from Puck magazine, July 8, 1885. (DRAWING COURTESY OF GEOFFREY C. WARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (84%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); WRITERS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); GRANDPARENTS (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: A Disposition to Be Rich: How a Small-Town Pastor's Son Ruined an American President, Brought on a Wall Street Crash, and Made Himself the Best-Hated Man in the United States (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



19 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The Kindest Cut Of Meat Is Ground

BYLINE: By BRIAN HALWEIL and DANIELLE NIERENBERG. 
Brian Halweil is the editor of Edible East End and publisher of Edible Manhattan and Edible Brooklyn. Danielle Nierenberg is the director of Nourishing the Planet.

 BODY:
AS Americans plan their Independence Day barbecues, they should skip the tony sirloins and chops, and opt for what can be the most sustainable, economical, gastronomically flexible and morally responsible cut of meat: ground.
There are good reasons ground meat shows up in traditional recipes the world over -- in meatballs and tortellini, dumplings and samosas, meat pies and stir-fries -- and it deserves a respected place at our collective table.
Ground meat is often derided as low-quality, and its image hasn't been helped by a spate of pink slime exposes. And it's true that most meat recalls in the United States involve ground meat. 
But not all ground meat is created equal. Hamburger made at a large, industrial processing plant is cobbled together from hundreds or thousands of animals, typically raised in feedlots on a corn diet and fed antibiotics. By contrast, small grass-fed beef farmers across the country have an enormous amount of good ground meat to sell.
Yes, it's a little more expensive, but still well within most Americans' budgets. It's typically from a single animal, one raised right, on green grass.
A large chunk of any carcass ultimately ends up as ground meat. After the popular cuts like steaks, chops and roasts are taken out, the rest of the meat is ground -- 26 percent of a hog, 38 percent of a beef cow, 41 percent of dairy cows and 46 percent of lambs. (We don't think of dairy cows as meat, but once their milking days are over, they become burgers.)
Of the 84 billion pounds of meat America produces each year, fully one third, 28 billion pounds, goes through the grinder.
Partly because of this, ground meat from grass-fed animals is relatively inexpensive. While a tenderloin of grass-fed beef might sell for $34 per pound or more, ground meat from the same animal might cost $8.50 per pound. Family restaurants, supermarkets and especially hamburger joints, even the new generation of fancy ones, all know this well, and pass on that savings to diners.
In the same way that nose-to-tail butchery can save a household money, buying ground meat can encourage small-scale, diversified livestock farming, since it helps supplement income from the pricier cuts. At your local farmers' market, ground meat is a great value and a far more ecologically wise choice than strip steak.
Ground round is a flexible ingredient. In New York, companies like DeBragga and Pat LaFrieda specialize in custom-made ground meat blends that balance fat, muscle and other components for the perfect bite. National brands like Niman Ranch and Organic Prairie offer burgers, hot dogs and sausage made from animals raised on pasture, rather than hormones or antibiotics.
And what if your only local option is a supermarket? No question, much of the meat there will be the factory-farmed variety, but that's all the more reason to request grass-fed or organic options, preferably raised nearby.
National chains like Whole Foods Market and regional chains like Wegmans in the Northeast or New Seasons Market in the Northwest have their own in-house meat-buying rules, based on ecological and humane standards, that ensure you can trust their ground meat, whatever you are buying.
THOUGH Walmart, the nation's largest food seller, has unfortunately eliminated butchers, we've encountered butchers in chains like Kroger and Safeway who were happy to grind a whole grass-fed cut into hamburger.
That won't save you money at the supermarket, but it will often stretch further during a party than a steak. Either way, always opt for ground-on-site instead of pre-made frozen patties, which contain all sorts of fillers and additives.
If your supermarket butcher can't or won't grind on-site, consider getting your own meat grinder and experimenting. Ground turkey and chicken meatballs are a healthy twist on traditional beef meatballs -- and an important market for poultry growers who can't sell every bird whole -- while ground lamb makes a distinctive burger, especially when adorned with mayo and mint.
Meat remains the most energy- and resource-intensive ingredient in our collective diets. All the more reason not to squander any bit that is flavorful, nutritious and eminently edible.
This is also why diners increasingly see ground meat on the menus of the most conscientious chefs in the nation -- from the duck rillettes at Higgins Restaurant in Portland, Ore., to the Iowa lamb albondigas at Devotay in Iowa City, from the beef and pork picadillo-stuffed plantains at Palo Santo in Brooklyn to the Bolognese, kielbasa and fontina-stuffed meatballs at Gramercy Tavern in Manhattan.
If you follow their lead and make grass-fed burgers on the Fourth of July, you will be helping farmers and the local economy. And if you weren't eating them, the meat might have gone to waste.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEATS (90%); BEEF (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); DAIRY FARMING (88%); BUDGETS (77%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (73%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (73%); FOOD RECALLS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); ANTIBIOTICS (68%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



20 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: The Picky Eater Who Came To Dinner

BYLINE: By JESSICA BRUDER

 BODY:
NO one would touch it.
The offending object? A footlong loaf of bread, stuffed with savory cheese, purchased at a beloved Italian bakery and presented with pride at a recent potluck meal. ''This bread is delicious,'' I crowed.
The kitchen went quiet. You'd think I had offered up a bouquet of poison ivy. One guest said she was gluten free. Another didn't consume milk products. The mood lifted only when someone else arrived with a large bowl of quinoa and lentils.
It's becoming harder for Americans to break bread together. Our appetites are stratified by an ever-widening array of restrictions: gluten free, vegan, sugar free, low fat, low sodium, no carb, no dairy, soyless, meatless, wheatless, macrobiotic, probiotic, antioxidant, sustainable, local and raw.
Though medical conditions like celiac disease and severe allergies have long relegated a small percentage of diners to rigid diets, more and more eaters outside this group appear to be experimenting with self-imposed limits, taking a do-it-yourself, pick-and-choose approach to restricting what they consume. 
Some group-dining devotees say they are happy to adjust as the occasion demands. In April, Coco Myers, a writer who avoids gluten and lactose, invited a fish-averse friend to a dinner party in East Hampton, N.Y., hosted by a couple who don't eat red meat. A few days earlier, the hostess (Scott O'Neil, a painter and an amateur cook, who had been planning a seafood stew) e-mailed Ms. Myers to ask about problem foods.
''Sometimes I go to dinner parties, and you just deal with what you get, right?'' Ms. Myers recalled. ''But she put it out there.'' So she compiled a dietary no-fly list: no fish, no gluten, no lactose.
Ms. O'Neil was up to the challenge. ''Nowadays I always ask, because there's so many things people don't eat,'' she said. She swapped the stew for a mixed grill with chicken, scallops, salmon and tofu, rounding it out with rice, an asparagus-topped salad and an upside-down rhubarb cake.
Joanne Heyman, who owns a consulting firm in New York, thinks that stories like this illustrate just how much ''the locus of responsibility has moved from the eater to the hostess.'' Ms. Heyman, a former vegetarian, said that she recently organized an invitation-only business dinner for two dozen people. On the day of the event, she started getting last-minute notes from guests saying they were vegetarian, vegan or gluten free.
''The distinction is not that people have restricted diets,'' she said. ''It's their attitude about whose responsibility it is to meet their dietary needs.''
But where are all of the atomized eating habits coming from? Do these diners have anything in common, apart from ownership of single-serve Tupperware? Unlike the diet fads of yesteryear (Atkins, Zone, South Beach and countless others), many contemporary eating styles speak directly to values and virtues, aiming to affirm your ethos rather than nuking your love handles.
Today's restricted eaters are prone to identity-driven pronouncements along the lines of ''I'm gluten free.'' (It's worth nothing that, back in the aughts, no one declared ''I'm Atkins!'' Except, quite possibly, Dr. Robert Atkins himself.)
Consumers seem to be building self through sustenance, adjusting their appetites to reflect independence and moral character. In numerous interviews with restricted-diet adherents and those who study and feed them, control and identity were two common themes on everyone's lips.
''It's an alternative way of finding an identity in a place where identity is increasingly uncertain,'' said Richard Wilk, the director of Indiana University's doctoral program in food studies. ''So much of our lives are completely out of our control. You can go to college and not get a job. You can do an internship and not get a job. The economy takes some new tack every 15 minutes.''
Meredith Yayanos, a musician and a founder of the alternative culture magazine Coilhouse, adapts her diet to influence her mood. ''I love the idea that there's a mix and match going on,'' she said.
Ms. Yayanos first dropped gluten, sugar and carbs on a friend's advice after being mugged at gunpoint, a trauma that left her fending off panic attacks and depression. ''Within 48 hours, it felt like a thick layer of gauze had been pulled off my brain,'' she recalled. Now Ms. Yayanos revisits that diet whenever her mood drops. She's noticed her friends experimenting with food, too, essentially ''hacking'' their bodies, tinkering with different fuels to reap feelings of clarity and energy.
But Fabio Parasecoli, a native of Rome and the coordinator of food studies at the New School, worries that diverse diets can kill the pleasure of shared meals. ''For me, food is very social, and I would never show up at someone's place with Tupperware,'' he said. ''It's difficult when dietary choices prevent people from fully participating in social life.''
Meg Geldart, a circus acrobat in Portland, Ore., is determined not to let that happen. She frequently cooks meals with as many as 20 friends who are, variously, omnivorous, gluten free, dairy free, soy free, vegetarian, vegan, diabetic or allergic (to garlic, onions, nuts or legumes).
''It just became havoc,'' Ms. Geldart said. She and her friends eventually arrived at a decision: ''Not everyone's going to be able to eat everything.'' But with careful planning (plus a lot of recipe collecting and cross-referencing of diets), they've been able to ensure that, at any given meal, everyone can eat something.
''We did an East Coast-style clambake that was really fun,'' she said. ''Our vegans and vegetarians weren't too excited, but we did a vegetable roast for them.''
Still, even in Ms. Geldart's hometown, that famously tolerant foodie mecca satirized on ''Portlandia,'' patience may be waning. On the Web site of the local alt-weekly The Portland Mercury, anonymous readers recently aired their frustrations over restricted diets. ''You probably don't have celiac disease anyway. Self-diagnosis on WebMD doesn't count,'' one wrote.
''At restaurants, I ask for extra gluten on everything,'' said another.
Some restaurants steadfastly refuse to change a single dish to meet restrictions, on the grounds that even small alterations can slow a busy kitchen and butcher carefully calibrated recipes. Last year, Gjelina, a Los Angeles restaurant with a no-alterations policy, made national headlines after refusing to sideline the toppings on a smoked trout salad for Victoria Beckham, who was pregnant and dining with the celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay. Both guests walked out.
''It's the restaurant's policy not to change any part of the menu,'' said Fran Camaj, Gjelina's owner, who commented on house rules in general but declined to address specific incidents or guests. ''If you don't like the policy, that's fine, best of luck.''
Even if some folks won't budge, the spending power of independent-minded eaters is moving the marketplace. Many diners are driven by tales of adulterated food that perennially make the news, creating skeptical consumers.
By controlling consumer spending, restrictive diets also make personal choices political. ''The government-industrial farming complex really offends me,'' said Detective Daniel Kraus, with the Clackamas County Sheriff's Office in Oregon City, Ore., who eats with his health and his ethics in mind. ''I'm not with the Occupy Wall Street types at all. I'm a Ron Paul Republican.''
He added: ''When I go to the grocery store, it makes me mad that I can't buy barbecue sauce because the No. 1 component is high-fructose corn syrup.''
Mr. Kraus said that he stopped eating grains, legumes and dairy about 18 months ago as part of the ''paleo'' diet, which he said lowered his weight and blood pressure. This popular regimen, also known as the Paleolithic (or caveman) diet, consists of foods that our ancestors could pick or kill with a stick, arguing that human beings lack the appropriate digestive equipment to eat complex, processed foods.
But not everyone's rushing to change their habits; some foodies are downright skeptical of the ongoing dietary fragmentation. Josh Ozersky, the founder of Meatopia, an annual bacchanal for carnivores in New York City, argued that the atomization of eating styles is about more than health.
''Like a lot of chefs, I'm convinced that these diets are not always the results of the compromised immune systems of American diners, but their growing infantilism and narcissism,'' he said.
Does Mr. Ozersky plan to accommodate dietary diversity at his next event?
''My attitude has been a very clearsighted, unilateral anticipation and dismissal of all of those issues,'' he said. ''Meatopia is all meat. Anyone who doesn't like that can go to vegetopia.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO-NOS: Coco Myers, a writer, prepares a salad in her kitchen in East Hampton, N.Y. She keeps gluten and lactose out of her diet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HUNTER-GATHERER: Daniel Kraus of Oregon sticks to the Paleolithic diet, foods our ancestors could pick or kill with a stick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TIDAL SHIFT: Joanne Heyman thinks that, when it comes to guests' dietary needs, the responsibility has moved to the host. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANNA RAFF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (89%); MEAT FREE DIETS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); BAKERIES (78%); SEAFOOD (76%); NUTRITION (74%); MILK (71%); BACTERIA (69%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); WRITERS (66%); ALLERGIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



21 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, July 1st 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 1, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 16, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList115THE AMATEUR, by Edward Klein. (Regnery, $27.95.) A journalist argues that President Obama is callow and unable to lead. 21COWARDS, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions/Mercury Radio Arts, $28.) The radio host and founder of GBTV discusses 13 lies that politicians, academics and the media perpetuate. &#8224;3638KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The host of &#34;The O&#39;Reilly Factor&#34; recounts the events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 4483UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 554IT WORKED FOR ME, by Colin Powell with Tony Koltz. (Harper/HarperCollins, $27.99.) Rules for effective leadership from the four-star general and former secretary of state. 639WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf, $25.95.) A woman&#39;s account of a life-changing 1,100-mile hike along the Pacific Crest Trail. 722THE GREAT DESTROYER, by David Limbaugh. (Regnery, $29.95.) The talk show host&#8217;s brother, a lawyer and columnist, describes the president&#39;s &#34;war on the Republic.&#34; &#8224;8*1NOT TACO BELL MATERIAL, by Adam Carolla. (Crown Archetype, $25.) Childhood recollections from the radio, TV and podcast host. &#8224;993CRONKITE, by Douglas Brinkley. (Harper/HarperCollins, $34.99.) A biography of the newsman and longtime anchor of the &#8220;CBS Evening News.&#8221; 101UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES, by Edward Conard. (Portfolio/Penguin Group, $27.95.) A former managing director of Bain Capital and a major Romney contributor argues that growing income inequality shows the American economy is working. &#8224;1187THE PASSAGE OF POWER, by Robert A. Caro. (Knopf, $35.) From 1958 through the Kennedy assassination; the fourth volume of &#8220;The Years of Lyndon Johnson.&#8221; 121134STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur. 13*159THE PRESIDENTS CLUB, by Nancy Gibbs and Michael Duffy. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $32.50.) Two journalists examine the relationships between sitting presidents and their predecessors. 14102I HATE EVERYONE . . . STARTING WITH ME, by Joan Rivers. (Berkley, $25.95.) The comedian&#8217;s humorous reflections. 156MY CROSS TO BEAR, by Gregg Allman with Alan Light. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $27.99.) The musician&#8217;s memoir.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. THE PRICE OF INEQUALITY, by Joseph E. Stiglitz. ( Norton)
17. THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
18. AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins)
19. FEARLESS, by Eric Blehm. (WaterBrook)
20. THE POWER OF HABIT, by Charles Duhigg. (Random House)
21. A GOOD MAN, by Mark K. Shriver. (Holt)
22. IMAGINE, by Jonah Lehrer. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
23. IMPLOSION, by Joel C. Rosenberg. (Tyndale)
24. THE BIG MISS, by Hank Haney. (Crown Archetype)
25. THE ART OF INTELLIGENCE, by Henry A. Crumpton. (Penguin Press)
26. SERVICE, by Marcus Luttrell and James D. Hornfischer. (Little, Brown)
27. ---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (It Books/HarperCollins)
28. FULL SERVICE, by Scotty Bowers with Lionel Friedberg. (Grove)
29. SCREWED!, by Dick Morris and Eileen McGann. (Broadside/HarperCollins)
30. OVER TIME, by Frank Deford. (Atlantic Monthly)
31. FATHER&#39;S DAY, by Buzz Bissinger. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
32. CONFRONT AND CONCEAL, by David E. Sanger. (Crown)
33. THE ADMIRALS, by Walter R. Borneman. (Little, Brown)
34. DRIFT, by Rachel Maddow. (Crown)
35. EAT AND RUN, by Scott Jurek with Steve Friedman. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WORLD WAR II (63%); HIKING (61%); PODCASTING (50%)

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (51%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); GLENN BECK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



22 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: With Two Retirements, A Ballet Era Ends

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
THEY have been the Apollo and Dionysus of American Ballet Theater. Ethan Stiefel is fair, elegant, a superbly refined classicist whose dancing retains an innate purity and clarity of line even in virtuoso display. Angel Corella is Latin, full of fire and bravura, a dancer whose technical feats and intense presence can make audiences leap to their feet with delight.
Both have had high-profile careers as signature principal dancers at Ballet Theater since the mid-1990s, rising to prominence as part of an extraordinary generation of male ballet stars. Their relative merits have been passionately debated by critics and fans as they frequently shared roles, ballerinas and sometimes a stage -- most thrillingly in ''Le Corsaire,'' in which they would alternate in the roles of Ali the slave and the hero, Conrad.
Mr. Stiefel, 39, will dance Ali again on Saturday in his last performance with Ballet Theater, just eight days after Mr. Corella, 36, bid farewell to the company with a performance of ''Swan Lake.'' Both men are leaving for the same reason; each is currently running a ballet company. Mr. Corella leads the Barcelona Ballet, a company he founded in 2008. Mr. Stiefel became the artistic director of the New Zealand Ballet last year after four years as dean at the North Carolina School of the Arts. 
It was simply too hard, both men said, to fulfill both roles well.
''I've been thinking about this for the last two or three years,'' Mr. Stiefel said in a telephone interview. ''The discipline, time management and energy needed to function as a principal dancer, and do another job, is incredible. I'd love to dance forever, but I want to leave when I am still giving performances on a high level. I don't want people to see me eroding in front of their eyes.''
Mr. Corella too cited a desire to retire from classical roles at his peak. ''I wasn't feeling like I could give what I used to give,'' he said by phone from Barcelona, adding that he will continue to dance occasionally with his own company in more contemporary work.
He added: ''It wouldn't be fair to either my company or to A.B.T. to continue with something that is practically impossible. The focus switches into worrying about the careers of the dancers, and not about yourself. It's no longer about getting your ballet shoes and pitching up for performance.''
The departure of both men, two years after the retirement of Jose Manuel Carreno, closes a particular era at Ballet Theater: a time when male classical dancers came into their own as not simply equal to the ballerinas but possibly even bigger draws for audiences thrilled by the outpouring of dazzling technical skill, distinctive personalities and extraordinary artistry.
''A.B.T. has always had a history of great male dancers, but the arrival of Ethan, Angel, Jose Manuel Carreno and Julio Bocca in the 1990s seemed to be a new era in spectacular male dancing,'' Peter Boal, a former City Ballet dancer who is now the artistic director of the Pacific Northwest Ballet, said in an e-mail. ''One of the thrills was that they were all members of the troupe, not temporary imports for the Met season. I know all four were great guys and very supportive of each other, but you couldn't help but notice a little healthy competition as they nailed the ninth and tenth pirouette.''
Damian Woetzel, a former New York City Ballet principal, also wrote in an e-mail: ''I first saw both Ethan and Angel dance in the late Stanley Williams's class at the School of American Ballet. That to me is the era that is drawing to a close, the great dancers directly influenced by Stanley, who worked on a plane far above technique.''
The simultaneous retirement of Mr. Corella and Mr. Stiefel ''does feel symbolic,'' said Kevin McKenzie, the artistic director of Ballet Theater, who hired both men. ''They were part of the last two decades of building a new profile of the company. They embodied a notion that risk taking was important, and I think they changed the way a younger generation of male dancers saw themselves.''
Mr. Corella joined Ballet Theater in 1995, a cherub-faced 19-year-old who had been spotted by Natalia Makarova when he won the Concours International de Danse in Paris. Mr. McKenzie immediately hired Mr. Corella, then a corps de ballet member of a small company in his native Spain, and cast him in showpiece technical roles like the Bronze Idol in ''La Bayadere.''
Less than a year after joining the company Mr. Corella made his debut in the leading role of Basilio in ''Don Quixote,'' paired with the Argentine ballerina Paloma Herrera. Soon after, he was promoted to principal.
''We really grew up together at A.B.T. because we came there so young,'' said Ms. Herrera, who was Mr. Corella's choice as a partner for his final ''Swan Lake. ''He has marked my career, who I am as a dancer.''
Mr. Corella was an inexperienced partner in those years (''In the beginning he had no idea,'' Ms. Herrera said, laughing) and new to the spotlight. Mr. Stiefel, on the other hand, was already a star at City Ballet, where he spent seven years (with a year out, at the Zurich Ballet) before joining Ballet Theater as a principal in 1997.
''I never forget where I started and where I came from,'' said Mr. Stiefel, the son of a corrections officer who moved the family a number of times to help his son's career. ''My parents were always the rock underneath, and Peter Martins got my career rolling.''
But Mr. Stiefel wanted to dance the big story ballets that City Ballet didn't perform. At Ballet Theater, he said, Mr. McKenzie was ''the definition of a mentor,'' working closely with him on ''Giselle,'' ''Swan Lake,'' ''Manon'' and other Ballet Theater staples, in which he surprised audiences by revealing an unexpected passion and intensity in his acting and dancing.
Although Mr. Stiefel and Mr. Corella shared many roles, and both spent several years as regular guest artists with the Royal Ballet in Britain, they were never competitive, Mr. Stiefel said, adding that they had shared a dressing room during most of their years at Ballet Theater.
It probably helped that they were, as Mr. McKenzie put it, ''as different as night and day,'' polar opposites in terms of aesthetics and style, each with his own fervent fans and critical partisans.
''I never saw them as rivals,'' said Gillian Murphy, the Ballet Theater principal who is Mr. Stiefel's fiancee and who danced frequently with both men. ''What they have in common is that both are incredibly present and committed onstage.''
Now Mr. Corella and Mr. Stiefel must bring that commitment to their roles as ballet directors and switch the focus from their own careers to those of others.
Mr. Corella in particular has huge challenges ahead as he attempts to keep his company buoyant in the euro-crisis terrain of Spain.
''The economy in Spain couldn't be worse, but Barcelona is trying to support us,'' he said. ''I think the country is starting to understand that culture is a valuable export.''
Aside from the practical considerations of running a company, both will have to contend with the loss of an identity as one of the world's great dancers.
''The underlying thing is that we have a chance to contribute to the future of dance,'' Mr. Stiefel said. ''The shoe is on the other foot now.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above right, Angel Corella performing in ''Giselle'' and at the headquarters of the Barcelona Ballet. Left, Ethan Stiefel in ''Don Quixote'' and outdoors in New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (93%); DANCERS (91%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCE (91%); CLASSICS (90%); THEATER (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012



23 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: The Radical Supreme Court

 BODY:
The Supreme Court's landmark decision upholding the Affordable Care Act was a deft turn by Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., who voted with the court's four moderate liberals for the first time in a 5-to-4 ruling. Yet, while they upheld the law's mandate for individuals to buy insurance under Congress's taxing power, the chief justice joined the four other conservatives to reject that provision under the Constitution's commerce clause.
That rejection underscores the aggressiveness of the majority's conservatism and marks a stunning departure from the long-established legal consensus that Congress has broad power to regulate the economy. 
The court's conservatism calls to mind the defiance of the court in the 1930s when it regularly struck down New Deal statutes during the Great Depression. But there are important differences. The 1930s court saw itself as preserving established precedents and principles. The Roberts majority does not have that conservative role. Nor does it play the role of the 1960s court, whose rulings reinforced a relatively liberal trend in politics.
The current conservatives are not preserving a tradition or articulating a new social consensus. Instead, as the legal historian Robert W. Gordon put it, they have regularly been radical innovators, aggressively stepping into political issues to empower the court itself.
The majority took that approach this term in the politically charged fields of union governance and campaign finance regulation. In a union dues case, it broke a court rule by deciding an issue that was not presented in the case and went out of its way to take the side of right-to-work laws, which have been the subject of bitter political debate. On campaign finance, it overturned the Montana Supreme Court ruling in favor of the state's anticorruption law without hearing oral argument or considering a substantial factual record. In doing so, it extended to state campaign finance regulation the Citizens United ruling, which allows corporations and unions to spend freely in elections, the Roberts court's most devastating decision.
The court took a similar path in retreating from the constitutional right of criminal defendants to confront witnesses against them in cases involving forensic evidence. It refused to follow recent precedents, which say clearly that defendants must be allowed to cross-examine crime lab analysts responsible for forensic tests.
The term's statistics belie the fractiousness of the court, which decided almost half its cases by 9 to 0. (Many involve technical legal issues, and sometimes the justices' different legal approaches lead them to the same result.)
In some important cases, with one or two conservatives going over to the moderate side, the majority reached conclusions that went against the court's conservative politics. It held that criminal defendants had a right to effective lawyers during plea negotiations; that three of four provisions of Arizona's deplorable immigration law were pre-empted by federal law; and that mandatory life without parole for juveniles was cruel and unusual punishment. While Justice Anthony Kennedy is clearly a conservative, his inner compass sometimes leads him to vote with the court's moderate liberals, as in the right-to-counsel, immigration and juveniles cases.
Six full terms after Justice Samuel Alito Jr. joined the court, the five in the majority have redefined judicial conservatism. The contrast in style and philosophy with the moderate minority is pronounced, including the conservatives' willingness to flout court rules, constraints of precedent and well-established practices of legal reasoning to reach results they seek.
It is no wonder that the court's standing in public opinion polls is at its lowest level in a quarter of a century, with just one in eight Americans believing that the justices decide cases based only on legal analysis.
Justice Elena Kagan said last month, dissenting in the crime lab evidence case, that the conservative majority sometimes forsakes ''precedent-based decision making,'' which guides lower court judges and provides predictability in the justice system. The court reached the right result on the Affordable Care Act, but that ruling was not a sign of change in a strident conservative majority.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); FORENSICS (84%); HISTORY (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); TRENDS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (68%); CORRUPTION (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



24 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Giving Health Care a Chance to Evolve

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
INTRADE, an online betting site with an excellent record for predicting events, pegged the odds of the Supreme Court overturning President Obama's health care overhaul law at almost 80 percent.
When the court affirmed the law's constitutionality on Thursday, many forecasters were astonished. The ruling came by the slimmest of margins and was defended, in places, by deeply flawed economic reasoning. But it has paved the way for an orderly rehabilitation of America's gravely dysfunctional health care system.
It was a complicated case, in part because the reform legislation itself was seriously flawed. The law's drafters could have proposed a simpler and more efficient system -- something more like the single-payer systems that have been adopted by most industrial countries.
But that would have meant abandoning the nation's current system of employer-provided health plans. That these plans are a catastrophically bad model for providing health care was beside the point. Forcing voters to abandon a status quo that most of them say they like would have doomed more ambitious proposals from the outset. 
The important point is that because health reform had to be built atop the current system, each feature of the legislation upheld by the court was an essential precondition for that system's improvement.
Nearly every economic analysis of the health care industry rests on the observation that individually purchased private insurance is not a viable business model for providing medical services. Such insurance is broadly affordable only if most policy holders are healthy most of the time.
The fundamental problem is that insurers can often identify specific people -- like those with serious pre-existing conditions -- who are likely to need expensive care. Any company that issued policies to such people at affordable rates would be driven into bankruptcy, its most profitable customers lured away by competitors offering lower rates made possible by selling only to healthy people.
Economists call this the adverse-selection problem. Because of it, unregulated private markets for individual insurance cannot accommodate the least healthy -- those who most desperately need health insurance.
Many countries solve this problem by having the government provide health insurance for all. In some, like Britain, the government employs the care providers. Others, like France, reimburse private practitioners -- as does the Medicare program for older Americans.
The United States probably would have adopted one of those models had it not been for historical accidents that led to widespread adoption of employer-provided plans in the 1940s. To control costs of World War II mobilization, regulators capped growth of private-sector wages, making it hard for employers to hire desperately needed workers.
But because many fringe benefits weren't capped, employers spied a loophole: they could offer additional benefits, like health insurance. Its cost was deductible as a business expense, and in 1943 the Internal Revenue Service ruled that its value was not taxable as employee income. By 1953, employer health plans covered 63 percent of workers, versus only 9 percent in 1940.
Eligibility for favorable tax treatment hinged on the plans being available to all employees, a feature that mitigated a serious defect. Although hiring workers with pre-existing conditions meant paying higher premiums, tight labor markets made many employers willing to bear that cost, because insurance was an effective recruiting tool.
Employer plans are thus a significant improvement over individual private insurance, but they are still deeply flawed. If you lose your job, you can lose your coverage. This problem has been cast into sharp relief by the persistent high unemployment in the wake of the financial crisis. In no other industrial country do we see communities organizing bake sales to help defray the cost of an uninsured neighbor's cancer treatments.
The decline in the number of workers covered by employer plans began long before the recent crisis. According to census data, 65 percent of workers had employer-backed plans in 2000, but only 55 percent were covered by 2010. This decline has been driven in part by rapid increases in health care costs.
Economists agree that no matter how those costs are apportioned on paper, any money spent on employer-sponsored plans ultimately comes at the expense of wages. Real wages have risen little in recent decades, and the prospect that they will keep stagnating portends further erosions in coverage. So even if we ignore the inherent failings of the employer model, it simply won't be able to deliver broad health coverage.
Modeled after proposals advanced by the Heritage Foundation, the American Enterprise Institute and other conservative research organizations in the 1990s, the main provisions of the president's health care law were intended to eliminate the most salient problems associated with the current system.
One provision establishes insurance exchanges, where participating companies must offer coverage to all customers, irrespective of pre-existing conditions. Another imposes a financial penalty on those who fail to obtain coverage -- the individual mandate. And a third prescribes subsidies to make insurance more affordable for low-income families. (The Massachusetts plan engineered by Mitt Romney as governor in 2006 took an almost identical approach.)
WITHOUT each of its three main provisions, the law won't work. The individual mandate, of course, is the most debated. Critics denounce it as a violation of our liberty. Paradoxically, the slim majority on the court that affirmed the mandate's constitutionality seemed to embrace that view, likening the mandate to requiring citizens to eat broccoli for their own good. The court defended the constitutionality of the mandate by calling it a tax rather than a penalty.
But that interpretation will strike many economists as a misreading of the mandate's purpose. It isn't that people should buy health insurance because it would be good for them. Rather, failure to do so would cause significant harm to others. Society will always step in to provide care -- though in much more costly and often delayed and ineffective forms -- to the uninsured who fall ill. To claim the right not to buy health insurance is thus to assert a right to impose enormous costs on others. Many legal scholars insist that the Constitution guarantees no such right.
No one can be sure how the law will play out. But its critics would be unwise to assume that it would have been easy to draft superior legislation had the law been overturned. Any new attempt would have taken the employer-based system as a starting point.
What's important now is how the health care sector will evolve under the new framework. And here, there are grounds for optimism. While the effects of the court's Medicaid restrictions aren't entirely clear, the law will certainly extend coverage to tens of millions who now lack it. In addition, new insurance exchanges will provide a broader array of care options. Increased competition tends to hold costs in check, even while enhancing service quality, and there's no reason to expect the situation in health care to be different.
Many scholars have argued that private, nonprofit institutions like the Mayo Clinic are the most effective model of providing care, and not only because they can better coordinate across many specialties. They are also less likely than traditional fee-for-service practices to prescribe unnecessary tests and procedures. Given those advantages, such institutions, or ones that mimic them, might have spread even without health care reform. After all, employers have an interest in providing cost-effective care for their workers.
But no matter which model proves most effective, it is likely to spread faster in the competitive environment established by the insurance exchanges.
The new law will hardly be the final word on these issues. Though it takes tentative first steps on cost control, government budgets will be decimated unless we do much more to reduce inflation in medical services. And in Medicare, many tough decisions remain to be made about end-of-life interventions, and whether Medicare should become an optional form of coverage for those who aren't elderly.
The point worth celebrating is that last week's ruling will at last enable our distinctly dysfunctional health care system to evolve into something better.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Newseum in Washington, Joy Reynolds of San Diego compared the front pages of various newspapers on Friday, the day after the Supreme Court delivered its 5-to-4 ruling largely upholding President Obama's health care law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN /ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); MEDICARE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); WORLD WAR II (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSEUM INC (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



25 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: No Respite for Liberals

BYLINE: By PAMELA S. KARLAN. 
A professor of public interest law at Stanford and a co-author of ''Keeping Faith With the Constitution.''

 BODY:
ANTON CHEKHOV once remarked that ''one must not put a loaded rifle on the stage if no one is thinking of firing it.'' In the term that ended last week, the Supreme Court reached a liberal outcome in cases involving President Obama's health care law, Arizona's draconian immigration statute and mandatory life sentences for juveniles. But the conservative majority also laid down a cache of weapons that future courts can use to attack many of the legislative achievements of the New Deal and the Great Society -- including labor, environmental, civil rights and consumer protection laws -- and to prevent new progressive legislation. Far from being a source of jubilation, the term may come back to haunt liberals. 
The immediate result of Thursday's 5-to-4 health care ruling was a victory for the Obama administration and the millions of Americans who will get improved access to medical care. But four justices would have struck down every provision of the 900-plus-page act, and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who provided the fifth vote to uphold the mandate that individuals buy insurance or pay a penalty, distanced himself from the law. ''It is not our job,'' he wrote, ''to protect the people from the consequences of their political choices.'' The chief justice, who at 57 is likely to sit on the court for at least another two decades, made clear that government's ability to address many of the nation's most pressing problems is subject to some new limitations.
We take for granted that the federal government can forbid landlords to reject a tenant based on his race or religion; prohibit development on fragile wetlands; finance the Medicare program for the elderly; require public schools to give girls an equal opportunity to play sports; collect revenue to pay for the National Institutes of Health and the national parks; encourage energy conservation by taxing gas guzzlers; prohibit discriminatory voter ID laws; and vindicate the right of state government employees to take unpaid leave to care for sick relatives.
The conservative legal movement has already attacked many of these provisions, and the Roberts court has been steadily supplying it with ammunition to do so. Conservative judicial rhetoric -- for example, Justice Antonin Scalia's denunciation last week of the Obama administration's decision not to deport young, law-abiding illegal immigrants who came to this country as children -- may be designed to change the political climate as well.
The federal government's ability to regulate economic and social life stems largely from four powers in the Constitution. Under the commerce clause, Congress can ''regulate'' national economic activity. Under the taxing power, it can ''lay and collect Taxes.'' Under the spending power, it can ''provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States.'' And under the enforcement powers, it can enact ''appropriate legislation'' to enforce the 14th Amendment's equal protection and due process clauses and the 15th Amendment's guarantee of the right to vote regardless of race.
From the 1930s through the Warren and Burger courts, the Supreme Court largely deferred to the political branches' judgments about the scope of these powers; it was their partner, not their adversary. The court recognized -- as Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg pointed out in her opinion on the health care case -- that the political process was the primary vehicle for limiting government's powers.
Under the last chief justice, William H. Rehnquist, the court began to turn, particularly on Congress's commerce and enforcement powers. The court limited some statutes -- notably, a section of the Americans With Disabilities Act that allowed state workers to sue their employers and a section of the Violence Against Women Act that gave victims of gender-motivated violence the right to sue in federal court -- but upheld others, including other applications of the disabilities law, a provision of the Family and Medical Leave Act, and a statute criminalizing possession of homegrown marijuana.
The Roberts court has intensified the effort to reduce federal power. That the individual mandate was upheld should not overshadow the court's ruling on Medicaid expansion -- the part of the ruling that is most likely to affect other legislation in the near future.
For the first time since the New Deal, the court struck down an exercise of Congress's spending power. It held that Congress lacked the power to deny Medicaid funds to states that refuse to expand their coverage. Chief Justice Roberts -- joined by the liberal justices Stephen G. Breyer and Elena Kagan -- held that while the government can deny additional Medicaid funds to states that refuse to expand their coverage, it cannot penalize them by rescinding current Medicaid payments.
This is a loaded gun indeed.
MANY state and local governments, universities and nonprofit agencies build their operations around federal financing. If the federal government can deny them additional money only when it adds conditions the recipients must meet, it will be hamstrung in ensuring compliance with critical federal objectives. For example, the government gives grants on the condition that recipients will not discriminate on the basis of race, sex and disability. If Congress adds sexual orientation to the list -- which seems likely at some not-too-distant point -- must it maintain existing financing for groups that defiantly persist in discriminating against lesbians and gay men?
A 2000 law requires state prisons and local jails that get federal funds to accommodate inmates' religious practices. But those facilities received money long before the law was passed. Can the government credibly threaten to cut off funds to facilities that violate the law, or are its enforcement tools now limited?
In less-noticed opinions, the court also curbed federal power in important ways. It rejected the government's view that drug company representatives should be entitled to overtime under the Fair Labor Standards Act. It seemed poised to severely restrict Congress's ability to give private plaintiffs the right to enforce consumer protection laws, unless they could show direct economic injury. (On the final day of the term, the court said it wouldn't decide the case after all.)
In another health care case, the court refused to permit state workers to sue for violations of their right to take sick leave for themselves under the Family and Medical Leave Act. A 5-to-4 majority ignored evidence that although the act uses a gender-neutral leave model, it was designed in significant part to protect childbearing women against pervasive employment discrimination.
In the fall, the court will have further opportunities to advance the conservative agenda. It will almost certainly decide cases involving voting rights, race-conscious affirmative action and same-sex marriage. Three cases involving federal environmental law are already on the docket. And even before the court struck down Montana's century-old ban on corporate political spending, there were already a slew of new challenges to campaign finance regulations working their way toward the court.
What, then, to make of the court's landmark decision to uphold the individual mandate? Chief Justice Roberts construed the mandate not as a requirement that individuals purchase health insurance but as a choice: buy insurance or pay a tax. But the conservatives surely know that a Congress that can tax but not do much else -- spend money, regulate the economy or enforce civil rights -- will be hamstrung. Taxes are unpopular and nearly every Republican member of Congress has promised to oppose any additional taxes on individuals or businesses.
A Congress that can advance national priorities only through its taxing power is a Congress with little power at all. That is the real legacy of the last term. The Supreme Court has given Americans who care about economic and social justice a reason to worry this Fourth of July. The court's guns have been loaded; it only remains to be seen whether it fires them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FIREARMS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); ELECTION LAW (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); MEDICARE (72%); SENTENCING (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); WETLANDS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); FAMILY LEAVE (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOHN ROBERTS (57%); ANTONIN SCALIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



26 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The Price Of Health Care

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
''IT is not our job,'' Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. wrote in Thursday's health care ruling, ''to protect the people from the consequences of their political choices.'' He might just as easily have written, ''to protect politicians from the consequences of their political choices.'' And now, with the Supreme Court parenthesis out of the way, we can get back to finding out exactly what those consequences will be.
For President Obama, the consequences of health care may still be fatal to his re-election hopes. The choice to go all-in on reform was the most important call of the Obama presidency, and from a purely political perspective it has proved the most disastrous one. Thursday's decision won't change this reality: Victory at the Supreme Court was obviously preferable to defeat, but the chief justice's grudging imprimatur is unlikely to make a deeply unpopular piece of legislation suddenly popular instead. 
Liberals have persuaded themselves that this unpopularity is largely the product of conservative misinformation and voter ignorance. But it's really a result of the gulf that opened in 2009 between the public's priorities and the president's agenda. By turning from economic crisis management to sweeping social legislation before the crisis had actually abated, Obama made himself look more ideological than practical and more liberal than pragmatic. By continuing to push for the largest possible bill even after the public backlash had elected a Republican senator in Massachusetts, he made himself look wildly out of touch as well.
This was not a mistake the icons of the liberal past made. Franklin Delano Roosevelt spent two years defining himself as a Depression-fighter before he set out to establish Social Security; Lyndon Johnson pushed through the Great Society amid an economic boom.
Had Obama followed Roosevelt's first-term example, the initial stimulus bill might have been broken up into smaller (and perhaps more popular) components, financial reform and perhaps tax reform would have preceded health care reform, and the kinds of jobs bills the White House demanded of a recalcitrant Republican Congress in 2011 might have been sought from a Democratic Congress in 2009 and 2010 instead. Even if this policy approach didn't dramatically accelerate the recovery, it would have given independent voters more confidence that the president had their economic interests rather than his history-making ambitions uppermost in mind.
But the Obama White House was convinced that it could fight the recession and rewrite the social compact all at once. And when the administration's economic policies didn't deliver as promised, it was almost inevitable that the focus on health care would cost Obama approval ratings, cost his party House seats -- and perhaps help cost him a second term as well.
Obama is not the only politician whose health care choices have been potentially damaging to his cause, however. Among Congressional Republicans, the decision was made early not only to oppose the White House's health care push, but to offer almost nothing in the way of policy alternatives. There was no meaningful Republican plan for reform during the heat of the original debate, and for all the notional talk about repealing and replacing, much the same void exists today. Individual conservative politicians and policy wonks have plans, but the party leadership has deemed it too risky to counter the Democratic legislation with anything save boilerplate. Paul Ryan has personally proposed a health care alternative, but his House budgets have conspicuously lacked one.
This ''just say no'' approach made a certain amount of political sense, for many of the same reasons the White House's ''all in'' approach turned out to be so politically risky. But it left the Republicans with no leverage on policy: they had nothing to offer wavering Congressional Democrats (from Ben Nelson to Bart Stupak) who had problems with the legislation but wanted to vote for some kind of reform, and they had nothing substantial to put forward when Scott Brown's victory seemed as if it might force the White House back to the negotiating table.
As a result, now that the bill has been passed and the Supreme Court has declined to do their work for them, the Republicans are left to thread a very narrow needle. First they need to take the Senate as well as the White House, and then they need to find a way to pass a party-line repeal bill while lacking any clear consensus on a replacement. Otherwise they will have combined a political victory with a once-in-a-generation policy defeat.
Neither the victory nor the defeat is inevitable: there's still time for Mitt Romney to lead his party to some kind of consensus on a health care alternative, just as there's still time for President Obama to pull out his re-election bid.
But for now, our leaders' health care moves seem as if they could easily produce the following endgame: The Democratic president is vanquished at the polls, but his Republican opponents are ultimately defeated on the policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); TAX LAW (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); TAX REFORM (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN ROBERTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



27 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1354 words

HEADLINE: Pocketbook Issues Weigh Heavily as Mexicans Cast Their Ballots

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico City.

 BODY:
CIUDAD NEZAHUALCOYOTL, Mexico -- Fernando Garcia fondly recalls the late 1990s, when all three floors of his factory in a green row house here held employees sewing and tagging the women's slacks that his family has been selling for decades.
But those days are gone, killed off by extortion and a 70 percent drop in sales, and Mr. Garcia's views on government and politics, like those of many Mexicans, have dimmed with his fortunes.
''We were all hoping for real change with Fox,'' he said, referring to former President Vicente Fox, whose victory in 2000 ended seven decades under the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. ''It didn't happen.''
Twelve years and another president from the National Action Party later, Mr. Garcia said, ''The rich are richer, the poor are poorer; the rest of us in between, we're just surviving.'' 
The results in Mexico's election on Sunday, in which voters are widely expected to give the PRI another shot at the presidency, could represent a significant rehabilitation of a party dismissed as so corrupt and authoritarian that it amounted to a dictatorship in democratic clothing. It was a party regularly accused of rigging elections, striking secret deals with criminals and collecting bribes so proficiently that piles of pesos were said to fill the pockets and the briefcases of its standard-bearers.
The possible return of the PRI shows the disenchantment many Mexicans feel toward the post-PRI leadership. The explosion of drug-related violence over the past few years is high on the list of concerns, of course, for Mexicans and American policy makers, who say they expect to work closely with the next president to strengthen justice institutions and reduce crime. But voters are equally or more focused on the economy.
It has performed unevenly. Although the currency and debt crises of the 1980s and '90s have given way to fiscal stability and steady growth, which reached almost 4 percent last year, many areas of Mexico -- including working-class cities like this one -- have yet to experience reliable prosperity.
''There has been a deterioration in the quality of employment,'' said Gerardo Esquivel, an economist at the Colegio de Mexico. ''We have a dynamic where we have a modern sector that is experiencing a bonanza and other sectors that are much less dynamic.''
Mexico -- after nearly 20 years of expanded free trade and minimal economic reform at home -- has essentially become a country of the stuck-in-place glaring at the upwardly mobile. While a minority of educated, skilled workers benefit from the dynamics of global trade, many more Mexicans work long hours, often at several jobs, without progressing. Census figures show that 57 percent of the Mexican labor force earns less than $13.50 -- not in an hour, but in a day.
Not surprisingly, all three major candidates have made jobs the cornerstone of their campaigns even as they offer similar vague proposals for increasing growth by breaking up monopolies, and by making the oil sector and the tax system more efficient.
Here in Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl, often called just Neza or Neza York, the sales pitch of the front-runner, Enrique Pena Nieto of the PRI, has been especially visible, and not just on Televisa, the network accused of gracing him with continuous favorable coverage. His billboards outnumber all others, with the largest featuring photos of middle-class families and the word ''ganando,'' which means ''winning'' but also ''gaining'' or ''earning.'' Other signs for his party, which had a mixed economic record in office, include the phrase ''for a successful Mexico.''
PRI officials say they are confident that the message will resonate, in part because of frustration with Mr. Fox and his successor, President Felipe Calderon, who campaigned in 2006 on a promise to be ''the president of employment.''
Indeed, even as Mr. Calderon boasted last week of having created 1.7 million jobs, people here in Neza and across Mexico said there was an obvious answer to the question of whether life is better now than 12 years ago: no.
''Everything is worse,'' said Esmeralda Armenta, 26, shaking her head with scorn on a quiet side street here. ''Our business is worse, and security has gotten worse as well.''
She said her family's cart, which sells shoes from a nearby corner, is lucky to dispense with five pairs a week, down from 30 in the 1990s. Others in the informal economy -- which accounts for a third or more of national employment -- offered similar tales of a decline that accelerated with the 2009 recession, when Mexico's economy contracted by 6.1 percent.
These workers tend to be among Mexico's most dogged and frustrated. They are people like Jorge Hernandez, 35, who sells pastries downtown from a white 1986 Volkswagen van.
On Wednesday, he was busy shooing away flies, while waiting for what has become a trickle of customers. He works sunup to sundown, and a good day a few years ago brought in around 600 pesos, or about $45. Now, he said, his take is down to about 400 pesos, or about $30, and his expenses are increasing. The price of sugar is up by nearly a third and gas prices are higher, too.
Mr. Hernandez has responded by taking on extra work on weekends and by delivering to maintain his customer base. But he said his income was hardly enough to support his family.
He said he was hoping the next president would improve his fortunes. He was thinking of voting for Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the candidate of the leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution, who has played up his programs for the poor. But in what polls suggest may be a common trend, Mr. Hernandez said he was also considering casting his lot with Mr. Pena Nieto and the PRI. ''Everyone says that when they were in power, they were always stealing,'' he said. ''But there were also more opportunities.''
Older voters here in Mexico State, where Mr. Pena Nieto served as governor until starting his presidential campaign, tend to be even more conflicted. Mr. Garcia, 53, said he feared that if the PRI returned to power, it would mean more help for the rich and connected. He said that he and other small-business owners were already feeling squeezed.
Part of the problem, he said, is that Mexico opened its markets to cheap imports -- with the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade deals -- without doing enough to help its own small businesses compete or innovate.
The crime wave of the past few years has only exacerbated the problem, he added. Extortionists tend to prefer small businesses over large companies because family-run operations are more likely to pay. In Mr. Garcia's case, the demands for money began in 2010. Without enumerating the cost, he said he paid for a year. He was robbed four times. His family endured repeated threats. Then he retreated, closing his two retail stores in Neza and shrinking his business to just family members.
''It affected us economically, mentally and physically,'' he said. ''It really damaged us.''
Many other small-business owners have responded in the same way. Mr. Garcia said he knew of 30 to 40 small businesses in Neza, mostly textile companies, that had closed or disappeared over the past two years. ''We're all afraid to do better because we are afraid of what comes with it,'' he said.
It would take a lot, he added, for whoever wins the presidency to turn that paralysis around. Mr. Garcia was undecided about his own vote. He had ruled out the National Action Party's candidate, Josefina Vazquez Mota, but also expressed concerns about the PRI (''Crime got worse when they were in power here'') and Mr. Lopez Obrador of the Party of the Democratic Revolution (''He seems too radical'').
Standing in his empty workroom, with slacks hanging on racks under flickering fluorescent lights, Mr. Garcia said he missed the years when politics held more hope, when he had a dozen full-time employees buzzing around him. Now, he said, he lives on the second floor of his three-story business and rents out the third.
''It's just me, my wife and my sister-in-law who work here full time,'' he said, looking toward his wife beside him. ''It's just us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A campaign poster adorns an auto parts shop, top, in Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl. The old governing party may regain power, in part because of hardships by people like Jorge Hernandez, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RODRIGO CRUZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BRIBERY (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (76%); SALES FIGURES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); DEBT CRISIS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



28 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Damali Brown, William Bond

 BODY:
Damali Brown and William Francois Bond were married Saturday at the Epiphany Catholic Church in Washington. The Rev. Jean-Marie Vincent, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
Mrs. Bond, 30, is a director in the Park Hill division of the Blackstone Group, a New York investment firm where she is a member of the hedge fund team. She graduated from Spelman College and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.
She is the daughter of Yvonne Brown and Gregory L. Brown of Buffalo. The bride's father retired as a prosecutor for the United States attorney's office for the Western District of New York in Buffalo. Her mother retired as the head of the dance department at the Buffalo Academy for Visual and Performing Arts, a high school there.
Mr. Bond, 31, is a senior associate at the New York management consultancy Booz & Company. He graduated with distinction from McGill University, received a master's in economics from Cambridge University and received an M.B.A. as a Baker Scholar from Harvard.
He is the son of Christine Bond and James P. Bond of Washington. The bridegroom's father retired as the chief operating officer of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, an affiliate of the World Bank that assists foreign investment in poor countries.
The couple met while hiking Mount Kilimanjaro on a trip organized through Harvard's business school.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MOUNTAINS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (51%)

COMPANY: BOOZ & CO INC (69%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK (57%); MULTILATERAL INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (55%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MOUNT KILIMANJARO (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



29 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Taking One for the Country

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
IN my mind, there are two lessons from the Supreme Court's 5-to-4 decision to support President Obama's health care plan: 1) how starved the country is for leadership that puts the nation's interest before partisan politics, which is exactly what Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. did; and 2) the virtue of audacity in politics and thinking big. Let's look at both.
It was not surprising to hear liberals extolling the legal creativity and courage of Chief Justice Roberts in finding a way to greenlight Obama's Affordable Care Act. But there is something deeper reflected in that praise, and it even touched some conservatives. It's the feeling that it has been so long since a national leader ''surprised'' us. It's the feeling that it has been so long since a national leader ripped up the polls and not only acted out of political character but did so truly for the good of the country -- as Chief Justice Roberts seemingly did. 
I know that this was a complex legal decision. But I think it was inspired by a simple noble leadership impulse at a critical juncture in our history -- to preserve the legitimacy and integrity of the Supreme Court as being above politics. We can't always describe this kind of leadership, but we know it when we see it and so many Americans appreciate it.
This is still a moderate, center-left/center-right country, and all you have to do is get out of Washington to discover how many people hunger for leaders who will take a risk, put the country's interests before party and come together for rational compromises. Why do we all jump up and applaud at N.B.A. or N.F.L. games when they introduce wounded Iraq or Afghan war veterans in the stands? It's because the U.S. military embodies everything we find missing today in our hyperpartisan public life. The military has become, as the Harvard philosopher Michael Sandel once put it, ''the last repository of civic idealism and sacrifice for the sake of the common good.''
Indeed, I found myself applauding for Chief Justice Roberts the same way I did for Al Gore when he gracefully bowed to the will of the Supreme Court in the 2000 election and the same way I do for those wounded warriors -- and for the same reason: They each, in their own way, took one for the country.
To put it another way, Roberts undertook an act of statesmanship for the national good by being willing to anger his own ''constituency'' on a very big question. But he also did what judges should do: leave the big political questions to the politicians. The equivalent act of statesmanship on the part of our politicians now would be doing what Roberts deferred to them as their responsibility: decide the big, hard questions, with compromises, for the national good. Otherwise, we're doomed to a tug of war on the deck of the Titanic, no matter what health care plan we have.
I see no sign of Mitt Romney being ready for such a ''Roberts moment.'' I still have hope for Obama. He's entitled to a victory lap for daring to go big -- ignoring his advisers -- to bring health care to the whole country. It's a huge achievement.
But he needs to go just as big on the economy if he wants the Affordable Care Act to be something we can actually afford. That requires economic growth. Yet Obama's campaign has been all small-ball wedge issues, trying to satisfy enough micro-constituencies to get 50.1 percent of the vote.
Listen to the broad reaction to Roberts. Look at the powerful wave he has unleashed for big, centrist, statesmanlike leadership. That all tells me that people are also hungry for a big plan from the president to fix the economy, one that will bite and challenge both parties at the scale we need, fairly share the burdens and won't just be about ''balancing the budget,'' but about making America great again.
The opportunity for such a plan is hiding in plain sight. America today is poised for a great renewal.
Our newfound natural gas bounty can give us long-term access to cheap, cleaner energy and, combined with advances in robotics and software, is already bringing blue-collar manufacturing back to America. Web-enabled cellphones and tablets are creating vast new possibilities to bring high-quality, low-cost education to every community college and public school so people can afford to acquire the skills to learn 21st-century jobs. Cloud computing is giving anyone with a creative spark cheap, powerful tools to start a company with very little money. And dramatically low interest rates mean we can borrow to build new infrastructure -- and make money.
''We are at a transformational moment in terms of our potential as a country, and we have two candidates playing rope-a-dope,'' said David Rothkopf, author of ''Power, Inc.''
If we can just get a few big things right today -- a Simpson-Bowles-like grand bargain on spending and tax reform that unleashes entrepreneurship, a deal on immigration that allows the most energetic and smartest immigrants to enrich our country and a plan on energy that allows us to tap all these new sources in environmentally safe ways -- no one could touch us as a country. Connect the dots for people, Mr. President -- be the guy taking the risk to offer that big plan for American renewal, and Romney will never be able to touch you.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); VETERANS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN ROBERTS (79%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



30 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bets on Changing Iran's Tune With New Sanctions Aimed at Lifeblood

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After three and a half years of attempting to halt Iran's nuclear program with diplomacy, sanctions and sabotage, the Obama administration and its allies are imposing sweeping new sanctions that are meant to cut the country off from the global oil market. Many experts regard it as the best hope for forcing Iran to change its course.
On Sunday, the European Union is putting in place a complete embargo of oil imports from Iran, which was the Continent's sixth-biggest supplier of crude in 2011.
Three days ago, the United States imposed a new round of sanctions that could punish any foreign country that buys Iranian oil. However, it has issued six-month exemptions to 20 importers of Iranian oil who have significantly cut their purchases, including China, which has openly opposed the pressure on Iran. 
Even before these steps, Iran conceded last week that its oil exports were down 20 to 30 percent. Its currency has plunged more than 40 percent against the dollar since last year. But so far the escalating sanctions, which the Bush administration started and the Obama administration has intensified, have failed in their central goal of forcing Iran's mullahs to stop enriching uranium. Negotiations have stalled, though it is unclear whether this is a tactical move by Iran or a collapse of the latest diplomatic effort.
On Friday, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations indicated that the harsh new measures might not sway Tehran, saying negotiations were at a ''critical point.'' The sanctions indicate ''that they are not willing to engage with us in a meaningful dialogue,'' the envoy, Mohammad Khazaee, told reporters.
Still, President Obama and his European allies -- with little help from the Chinese, who actually increased their purchases of Iranian crude in May -- are placing a bet that another big turn of the economic screws may change Iran's attitude.
''It is our assessment that the Iranians have not experienced deep enough sanctions, long enough to fully understand what their isolation means,'' a senior administration official closely involved in strategy said Friday in an interview.
''The supreme leader,'' the official said, referring to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, ''has not made the decision to deal,'' even though the administration argues that it was the imminence of the newest round of sanctions that brought Iran to three rounds of negotiations in recent months.
David S. Cohen, Treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, described the measures as particularly potent because they focus on the ''lifeblood of Iran's economy.''
''We're going directly at their revenue, and making it increasingly difficult for them to access that revenue'' by isolating their financial system, Mr. Cohen said.
Already Iran's exports have declined to about 1.5 million barrels a day from about 2.5 million barrels a day last year.
The round of penalties that come into full effect on Sunday, some historians say, represent one of the boldest uses of oil sanctions as a tool of coercion since the United States cut off oil exports to Japan in 1940. That experiment did not end well: The Japanese decided to strike before they were weakened.
The measures, of course, are not the only tool in use. Mr. Obama has tried open appeals to the Iranian people and private letters to the supreme leader. And he accelerated the most sustained cyberattack on a sovereign state in American history, a covert program known as Olympic Games that sought to exploit vulnerabilities in Iran's nuclear program.
Even though the covert program has set Iran back and sanctions have made it difficult for the country to obtain high-technology goods, the Iranians have nonetheless added to their stockpile of enriched uranium. Iran now has enough to produce roughly five weapons, if it enriched the fuel to higher levels and could build a weapon. The Israelis are again asserting that Iran's progress is about to tip it into a ''zone of immunity,'' where its program could not be stopped.
Mr. Obama keeps repeating that there is ''time and space'' to force a diplomatic solution, though he has been deliberately vague about how much time.
Mitt Romney has complained that the president has been ''weak'' on Iran, noting that as negotiations grind on, Iran is continuing to enrich uranium. But he has not been specific about what kind of additional pressure he would impose.
R. Nicholas Burns, who helped design the Bush administration's sanctions strategy, said Friday that the combination of the new American and European sanctions ''are the toughest sanctions imposed to date.''
He continued, ''We should give them a few months to have the kind of impact for which they are designed -- to force Iran to negotiate more seriously.''
So far the administration has been successful with at least one element of its strategy: It has managed to cut purchases from Iran without raising the price of oil, a feat many doubted would be possible. It has helped that suppliers, including Saudi Arabia, Libya and Iraq, have increased their production. Another factor has been weakening global demand.
For the past six months, Washington has engaged in an intense diplomatic campaign to get big purchasers of Iranian oil, including India, South Korea, China and Japan, to reduce their volume of imports so that they do not find themselves facing sanctions.
Many countries grumbled but complied, particularly after Saudi Arabia and other countries made it clear they could replace the lost supply. Washington has thus far granted ''waivers'' from sanctions to 20 countries that the administration determines have cut their purchases significantly. The waivers must be renewed every six months.
The biggest holdout was China, which has strongly opposed the sanctions. ''China is always against one country's unilateral sanctions,'' Hong Lei, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said in a news conference in June. ''Even less will it accept such unilateral sanctions to be imposed on a third country.''
On Thursday, Washington granted China and Singapore waivers, avoiding what could have been a tense standoff as the administration faced penalizing its biggest sovereign creditor. The Chinese, for their part, did not want to appear to be bending to American pressure.
Oil experts said that markets had already priced in the impact of losing Iran's supply, and that there appeared to be plenty of production to meet expected demand through the summer.
The big question now is whether the new measures will change Iran's attitude at the negotiating table. There was initial hope for an agreement when Iran met with the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and Germany this spring. But subsequent rounds of talks have gone nowhere.
The senior administration official said that Iran had given a ''detailed response'' to an American proposal for a cutoff in the production of uranium enriched to 20 percent purity, which can be converted fairly quickly to bomb-grade, and for a step-by-step dismantlement of its enrichment plants. But there remains ''a wide gap,'' the official said.
A meeting of technical experts is scheduled for Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A complex in Khuzestan Province in southwestern Iran is part of the country's vast oil industry, suffering already from sanctions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); RELIGION (51%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



31 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Speeding Up Refinances

BYLINE: By BETSY VERECKEY

 BODY:
MANY large financial institutions are facing backlogs of mortgage applications as more homeowners take advantage of low interest rates and the government-sponsored Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP.
Borrowers looking to accelerate the process are finding some relief from brokerages and community banks that are not servicing HARP loans.
''We've heard stories about 60-day to 90-day loan waiting periods in some cases,'' said Michael Fratantoni, the vice president for research and economics of the Mortgage Bankers Association, adding that larger banks are ''running at full capacity.'' 
According to the Mortgage Bankers Association weekly survey released Wednesday, nearly 80 percent of the mortgage applications were for refinancing; previous weeks' surveys showed roughly a quarter of the transactions were HARP-related. HARP was created by the federal government to simplify the refinances of homeowners with mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who seek less onerous loan terms. The program was expanded last fall as HARP 2.0.
HARP borrowers typically refinance with the banks that originally serviced their loans, because those banks already have their information, Mr. Fratantoni said, and ''there's potential for it to be a less painful process.''
Still, tighter lending standards precipitated by the mortgage crisis have made for an arduous application process.
Andrew Latos, a real estate lawyer in Astoria, Queens, who has represented clients in transactions with big banks and who worked with a broker to service his own home loan, says he charges more for closings these days, because ''a two-hour closing can quickly become a five- or six-hour closing.''
Mortgage brokers, for their part, are reporting an increase in business from those looking to streamline the entire process.
''We have direct contact with the banks, so we always know what's going on with your file,'' said Vanessa Thatcher, a senior loan officer with Atlantic Home Capital in Ronkonkoma, N.Y., explaining that a broker can keep track of the application as it ''goes through so many hands'' at a large financial institution. Ms. Thatcher charges a fee of 1 to 2 percent of the total loan amount.
Brokers can also act as financial consultants. ''A good percentage of the people who call me to refinance, I tell them not to,'' said Mark Yecies, the president of SunQuest Funding in Cranford, N.J. He recalled a borrower who recently came to see him after being told he was a prime candidate for a refinance. Mr. Yecies ran the numbers and found that a refinance didn't make sense, because the majority of the borrower's payment was principal.
Borrowers might also want to consider refinancing with a community bank. New York Community Bank, for example, does not service HARP-eligible borrowers and is able to respond faster to non-HARP refinance requests, said Stephen Trayte, a senior vice president and director of residential credit for the NYCB Mortgage Company, a subsidiary of New York Community Bank.
But even his bank has been experiencing delays because of higher volume. He recommended that borrowers lock in a rate.
''Normally, we do the whole transaction in less than 30 days,'' said Mr. Trayte, estimating that the average time has reached 45 days. ''There is about a 50 percent delay just because of the volume of activity, and that's without having HARP transactions.''
To handle increased demand, big banks like Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase have been adding staff members and underwriting centers.
Wells Fargo recorded a 31 percent jump in HARP volume after implementing HARP 2.0, said Vickee J. Adams, a spokeswoman. She estimates that it takes 90 days to complete a refinance.
Borrowers will have a better chance of moving through the process in less time, she said, if they ''follow the necessary steps to complete their applications and submit supporting documents in a timely fashion.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate. (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); NEW YORK COMMUNITY BANCORP INC (50%)

TICKER: NYCB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



32 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong in Dour Mood as Chinese Leader Makes Return Visit

BYLINE: By KEVIN DREW; Zakiyyah Wahab contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The last time President Hu Jintao of China visited this former British colony, in 2007, the public mood was positive, buoyed by the approaching Beijing Olympics and a surging mainland economy that was pouring tourist and investment money into the territory.
But Mr. Hu, who arrived on Friday and is to stay through Sunday to observe a change of local government and the 15th anniversary of the return of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty, is encountering a very different sentiment this time. Public mistrust of the central government in Beijing is at its highest since the handover in 1997, while approval ratings for Leung Chun-ying, the incoming Hong Kong chief executive, have dropped sharply before his inauguration.
Pressing economic worries have contributed to public frustration that has been building for months, both with Beijing and with the political and economic system in Hong Kong since 1997, a system in which special interests controlled by a small circle of tycoons select the chief executive.
''We still cannot choose our chief executive, and that has caused many problems,'' said Andrew Shum, 25, who is organizing one of the demonstrations near where Mr. Hu is leading meetings. ''People don't trust the chief executive, because they don't have a voice in voting for him.'' 
Fifteen years after the handover, Hong Kong faces a wide set of challenges, analysts say: property prices have soared to their highest levels since 1997; the gap between rich and poor, already the greatest in Asia, is at its highest level in four decades; air pollution continues to worsen; and no clear path has been presented to usher in a system to allow the public to directly elect leaders.
Beijing has said that direct elections of the chief executive may be held as early as 2017, but it has not given any guarantees.
A sense of urgency is beginning to take hold for many involved in politics here.
''I don't think any Hong Kong government official can afford a honeymoon with legislators or the public,'' said Miriam Lau, chairwoman of the Liberal Party, which supports business interests. ''There are too many issues to face.''
While the economy is seen as robust, driven by financial and real estate industries that have helped the government build fiscal reserves of about $85 billion, recently released statistics point to worrying developments.
Property prices in Hong Kong, among the highest in the world, surged in June past the previous record set in 1997, according to Centaline, a local real estate firm that tracks prices. The government here says that the Gini coefficient, an international measure of income inequality, rose in 2011 to its highest level since 1971. The gap between rich and poor is greater than in Britain, Singapore or the United States, officials said.
Echoing the Occupy movements across the globe, residents here poured into the streets last July 1, the 14th anniversary of the return to Chinese rule, to voice anger at the growing inequality. Organizers said that rally drew more than 200,000 people. And while the police gave a much lower number, most observers said the march had attracted the most people since at least 2004.
''It is harder today to jump up to the middle class than in 1997, when you could still do it with hard work alone,'' said Gordon Hon, 39, a Hong Kong resident with a two-year university certificate in social work who leads rock climbing and other outdoor pursuits. ''Hong Kong has moved on to a knowledge-based society, and I would need more education to earn more.''
Much of the public's anxiety is rooted in Hong Kong's complex relationship with mainland China. Although the economy has become increasingly dependent on mainland visitors since 1997, Hong Kong retains significant cultural and political differences. Cantonese is the predominant Chinese dialect spoken here, not the Mandarin of the mainland.
Beijing guaranteed that Hong Kong's civil liberties, which include independent courts and a free press, would be preserved for the first 50 years after the handover. But many here worry that the way of life is yielding to the flood of people coming from the mainland, either as tourists or immigrants, and to increasing business ties with mainland interests. Many also say that it is mainland visitors, coming to Hong Kong with large amounts of cash, who are fueling the property market's soaring prices.
A recent poll by the University of Hong Kong's Public Opinion Program found that 37 percent of Hong Kong residents mistrusted the central government in Beijing, the highest figure since 1997. The local news media have said that reports of human rights abuses on the mainland, like the extrajudicial detention of Chen Guangcheng, the rights advocate who has since been allowed to leave for the United States, have fed Hong Kong residents' concerns about China.
Organizers were expecting a large turnout for the annual July 1 demonstration on Sunday, a day that activists traditionally use to press for action on various social issues. On Saturday, tensions between residents and Beijing were on display when the police briefly scuffled in the evening with a small group of demonstrators in front of the convention center where Mr. Hu was attending a banquet with local officials.
The demonstrators had rallied to call on Mr. Hu to investigate the death of Li Wangyang, a dissident whose body was found on June 6 with a cloth tied around his neck. Reports of his death set off protests in Hong Kong after the police in Hunan Province initially labeled it a suicide.
Earlier Saturday, the police briefly detained a local journalist when the reporter asked the Chinese president about the military crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989. The reporter was forcibly removed from the press area at a cruise ship terminal that Mr. Hu was reviewing.
Mr. Leung, the incoming chief executive, has said he wants to speed up the construction of public housing and has promised to form a committee to study ways to ease poverty in Hong Kong. He has also said he wants to ensure better access to education and medical care.
But how effective a leader he will be is a growing question. His credibility came under attack in June when he was forced to admit to having illegal additions at his luxury home -- after having used the same issue to bring down a rival -- in the form of a basement and a glass canopy.
In March, Mr. Leung attacked Henry Tang, then the front-runner for chief executive, for first denying and then acknowledging that a large basement had been built under his own home without government authorization.
Popular anger over the perception that this was another case of Hong Kong's privileged flouting the law helped Mr. Leung win enough votes from the 1,200-member election committee to push Mr. Tang aside.
In a separate poll by the Public Opinion Program, commissioned by the newspaper The South China Morning Post, 70 percent of respondents said the disclosures that Mr. Leung also had illegal structures at his home had lowered their opinion of his integrity. Fifty-two percent said the disclosures had adversely affected their view of his suitability as chief executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A demonstrator on Saturday in Hong Kong protested a visit by President Hu Jintao of China, who previously visited the territory in 2007. At left, protesters and the police faced off. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS BARRIA/REUTERSCARLOS BARRIA/REUTERS
 WALLY SANTANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); AIR POLLUTION (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



33 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Maine Race Complicates Struggle for the Senate

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
BRUNSWICK, Me. -- Angus King is the prohibitive favorite to win the open Senate seat in Maine this year, and it is easy to see why.
At a town-hall-style meeting to discuss technology issues here the other day, he showed a smooth rapport with the audience. They seemed impressed by his knowledge, chuckled at his dry wit and generally bathed in the warm glow of familiarity as he made casual references to his family and his two terms as governor.
This is the calm before the storm.
''A huge negative campaign is about to start,'' said Juliana L'Heureux, 66, a politically active nurse who came here to see Mr. King and who likes him so much that she held a fund-raiser for him at her home. ''Thank God he has a huge reservoir of good will, because he's going to have to draw that down as things get nastier.'' 
Early polling shows Mr. King, an independent, way ahead of his rivals -- a Republican, a Democrat and three other independents. But being the front-runner also makes him the punching bag, and it is unclear whether Mr. King, 68, who seems invincible now, can sustain his lead as the campaign unfolds. He has been out of office for almost a decade and has not faced a competitive campaign since 1994, before the Internet and ''super PACs'' became such forces in politics.
''By the time Labor Day gets here, this race will have a very different complexion,'' Charles Summers, the Maine secretary of state and the Republican nominee, said in an interview. ''It's fair to say it will be important to have a thick skin.''
Conservatives see Mr. King as a big spender who left the state with a deficit when his second term ended in 2003. Liberals are unhappy over some basic blue-collar issues, like his opposition to raising the minimum wage. Both sides question his involvement in a wind power project that last year won a $102 million loan guarantee financed by a federal stimulus program. And both are annoyed over his vow to wait until after Election Day to reveal which party he would align himself with in Washington, though that approach seems to appeal to the majority of voters in Maine.
But what really upsets Republicans is that they did not expect to have to defend this seat in their overall effort to regain control of the Senate. Olympia J. Snowe, a popular three-term Republican incumbent, appeared headed to re-election until she announced in February that the polarization in Washington was too frustrating and that she would not run again.
Mr. King stepped in and said he would run as an independent. But his record, and his announced intention of voting for President Obama, suggests a likely alliance with the Democrats. The nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report now puts Maine in the ''leans Democratic'' column.
Maine is suddenly one of a handful of states that could determine the balance of power in the Senate, making it fertile territory for outside super PACs to start running negative advertisements against Mr. King.
But Mr. Summers, the Republican nominee, and Cynthia Dill, the Democratic nominee, have to persuade their potential donors that they are worth the investment. A poll in mid-June by the Boston public radio station WBUR showed Mr. King with the support of 50 percent of likely voters, Mr. Summers with 23 percent and Ms. Dill with 9 percent. The telephone poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Ms. Dill has the backing of the state's Democratic Party, but the national Democratic Party and the national groups that traditionally get involved in House and Senate races are holding back to see if Ms. Dill can gain traction in the polls.
''At the national level, the silence is deafening,'' Ms. Dill said in an interview in the offices of the state party in Portland. ''I don't have any unrealistic expectations. They want someone who not only shares their values, but is viable as well.''
But, she added, ''my poll numbers have nowhere to go but up, and I believe Angus has reached his high-water mark.''
Mr. King's candidacy has caused angst among some Maine Democrats. They like him and expect that he would generally support the Democrats in Washington. But they recall all too well the election for governor here in 2010, when an independent candidate divided the Democrats and allowed the Tea Party-backed candidate, Paul R. LePage, to squeak through. They also lost both houses of the Legislature.
Mike Saxl, a Democrat and former speaker of the State House, has become a co-chairman of Mr. King's campaign. He acknowledged that his support for Mr. King had ''raised some eyebrows,'' but he said he had worked closely with the former governor and believed he was ready to step into the Senate job ''on Day 1.''
Mr. Saxl said Democrats who were sticking with Ms. Dill were ''less concerned about the values that Angus brings to the table'' and more concerned about the institution of the Democratic Party after the 2010 debacle.
One concern is that as Ms. Dill criticizes Mr. King -- she says he is more focused on the workings of the United States Senate than on the working families in Maine -- she could potentially weaken him and strengthen Mr. Summers.
''The Democrats want to avoid what happened in 2010,'' said Mark Brewer, a political scientist at the University of Maine. ''They won't say it on the record, but as Cynthia keeps pounding away, they just cringe.''
Ben Grant, the chairman of the state's Democratic Party, said the party was backing Ms. Dill ''100 percent.'' For now, he said, that means trying to increase her standing in the polls by introducing her to voters, not by attacking Mr. King.
But Mr. Grant said that his long-term goal as a Democrat was for Mr. Obama to succeed, and that Maine needed ''members of the Senate we can trust to support his agenda,'' a reference to Mr. King's insistence that he would ''vote my conscience,'' not party lines.
In an interview at his bustling campaign headquarters here, where pictures of Robert F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan hang side by side, Mr. King said of the Republicans: ''I'll support them when I think they're right, and I'll support Obama when I think he's right.''
Mr. King said that while voters were not yet talking about some of the matters that concerned him, like his push to end the filibuster, he expected that they would be once the campaign picked up.
''Don't get the impression I'm not interested in issues,'' Mr. King said. ''But I think the overriding issue is the functioning of the Senate. You can't do health care or the deficit or the economy or anything else if the Senate itself doesn't work.''
Mr. King said he did not expect to spend any of his own money beyond the $37,000 he had lent himself to start his campaign. He tried to get the other candidates to agree to penalties if super PACs got involved on their behalf, but he was not successful. As it happens, Mr. King is so far the only beneficiary of such support, from a group called icPurple, started by Ted Waitt, the founder of the Gateway computer company.
''I'm afraid we're in for it,'' Mr. King said of the expected flood of outside money. ''I don't think any of us are fully prepared for what's coming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Olympia J. Snowe, who announced this year that she would not seek re-election, complicating Republicans' plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Former Gov. Angus King, right, at a campaign event last month in Brunswick, Me. Mr. King, an independent, leads in polls against Cynthia Dill, top left, the Democratic candidate, and Charles Summers, the Republican nominee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); WIND ENERGY (50%); WIND POWER PLANTS (50%)

PERSON: ANGUS KING (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



34 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: The Dam Boom In the Amazon

BYLINE: By CHARLES LYONS. 
A multimedia journalist and filmmaker.

 BODY:
Rio De Janeiro
A confrontation between the insatiable appetite for energy and the enduring need for habitability is under way in Brazil as it moves aggressively to harness the power of its rivers with plans for dozens of hydroelectric dams.
Such projects are engineering and aesthetic marvels that provide hydroelectric power and can also control floods and direct water for irrigation. But they also divert rivers, destroy animal habitat, displace entire communities and drown vast amounts of land beneath reservoirs. 
One project has galvanized the anti-dam movement in Brazil -- the Belo Monte dam on the Xingu River, a tributary of the Amazon in Para State. At a cost of roughly $16 billion, it is one of 30 large dams that have been announced for Brazil's Amazon region.
At last month's United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development here, it was hard to miss the irony of delegates gathering to promote a ''cleaner, greener and more prosperous world for all'' as opponents of Belo Monte protested in the streets of Rio and Indians occupied the dam site.
Belo Monte's first turbine is expected to be operational in three years, the entire project in seven. It will be the world's third largest hydroelectric dam, capable of generating more than 11,000 megawatts of electricity. (In New York, Consolidated Edison's record demand is 13,189 megawatts, set last July.)
The Brazilian government and executives at Norte Energia, the consortium of companies behind the dam, say the project is vital to meeting the energy needs of a country poised to become the world's fifth largest economy by 2017. They argue that in 10 years, Brazil will need 56 percent more electricity, and that hydropower is the cleanest, cheapest and most dependable option.
The finished dam will stretch nearly four miles across the majestic Xingu. It will also radically transform the land and the lives of at least 20,000 people, including thousands of Indians who have lived along the river for centuries. The project includes two dams, two canals, two reservoirs and a system of dikes. More earth will have to be dug than was moved to construct the Panama Canal, according to the environmental group International Rivers.
Other environmental groups say the dam will flood more than 120,000 acres of rain forest and release an enormous amount of the greenhouse gas methane from rotting vegetation suddenly placed on the bottom of a reservoir. Critics also say the seasonal variability of the river's flow will yield much less power than advertised.
Belo Monte is one of dozens of major dams under way or in the planning stages around the world. According to Philip M. Fearnside, a professor at the National Institute for Research in Amazonia, Brazil's plan for energy expansion calls for 48 large dams by 2020.
Altamira, a long-neglected, sleepy city in the north of Brazil, has swiftly become a hub of industry. Dilma Rousseff, the president of Brazil, is selling Belo Monte as a shining example of an aggressive ''growth-acceleration program,'' one that will create jobs, raise living standards, close the gap between rich and poor and generate energy.
Such a narrative, as told in videos slickly produced by Norte Energia, glosses over Belo Monte's negative impact on the Xingu region, impossible to miss in Altamira.
When I arrived last November with the Canadian videographer Todd Southgate to document the growing conflicts created by Belo Monte, I found a city in chaotic transition. Pedestrians, bicyclists, horse-drawn wagons, cars and huge Belo Monte trucks competed for right of way at nearly every intersection, where traffic lights were broken or simply did not exist.
''You have an environmental impact study of Belo Monte that is 36 volumes, around 20,000 pages, and it's basically a work of fiction,'' said Mr. Fearnside. ''Belo Monte is a spear point for dismantling the whole system of environmental licensing and regulation here.''
In 2010, James Anaya, the United Nations' special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous people, urged that concerted efforts be made to ensure that ''adequate consultations'' were made with the Indians and that there be consensus on the project. Based on my talks with indigenous leaders, it's clear these conditions have not been met.
AT Norte Energia's headquarters in Brasilia, I met with Joao Pimentel, the director of institutional relations.
''Electricity to us means comfort -- not only for us, but for everybody,'' he said. ''It means my computer, it means my iPhone.'' Noting that Belo Monte had been radically scaled back from earlier plans, he said the dam's environmental impact would be minimal. The river will be navigable, he added, even during the dry season, and no indigenous lands will be flooded. ''They will have their way of life preserved,'' he said.
Mr. Pimentel argued that the energy generated by the Belo Monte dam would provide dependable electricity to millions of Brazilians and help solve an embarrassing problem -- blackouts. But Mr. Fearnside contends that only a quarter of the electricity the dam produces will go to the public. Roughly 30 percent will support heavy industries like aluminum smelting.
Where lawsuits against the environmental licensing process and other issues have stalled in Brazilian courts, opponents have drawn an eclectic coalition to their struggle. The movie director James Cameron and former President Bill Clinton are among those who have urged Brazil to reconsider.
Brazil has never wanted the international community to influence its environmental or other policies. Yet as the so-called country of the future continues to make its remarkable entrance onto the world stage -- with a growing economy, the World Cup in 2014 and the Summer Olympics two years later -- it's whittling away at one of the planet's most vital resources, the Amazon, while ignoring the continuing drama facing the people who live along the Xingu River.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A view of the first stages of construction on the Belo Monte dam in Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVARISTO SA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(SR6)
Protesters at the Belo Monte dam site in Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)(SR6-SR7) GRAPHICS: NEW HYDROPOWER GIANTS: These are some of the big dams under construction, shown with their expected completion dates and potential peak generating capacity. (Seasonal reductions in water flow can lower electric output.) (Sources: Global Water System Project (dam locations)
World Wildlife Fund
Jirau International Hydropower Association (new dams)
United States Dept. of Interior) (GRAPHICS BY JOE BURGESS AND BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAPS: The World's Large Dams: Almost 7,000 and Counting (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (91%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); RIVERS (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); IRRIGATION (71%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); METHANE (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (59%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%) AMAZON RIVER (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



35 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
STUDENTS IN CHINA AWAIT
EXAM RESULTS AND FATE
Millions of high school graduates across China have been furiously dialing telephone hot lines or gathering with family members around the home computer to find out their scores for what is generally considered the most important test any Chinese citizen can take: the college entrance examination. PAGE 4
OIL WEALTH AND MALLS IN IRAQ
American-style malls, fixtures in most of Iraq's wealthy Persian Gulf neighbors, have come to war-torn Baghdad. A return to prosperity is welcome, but economists fear growth of a consumer culture is masking problems with an economy dependent on oil. PAGE 4 
FRUSTRATION IN HONG KONG
President Hu Jintao of China is visiting Hong Kong to observe a change of local government and the 15th anniversary of the former British colony's return to Chinese sovereignty. But Mr. Hu's visit comes at a time when public mistrust of the central government in Beijing is at its highest since the handover. PAGE 9
REFUGEES DRAWN INTO FIGHT
Palestinian refugees in Syria, a country that has treated them more kindly than many others, have found themselves drawn into the worsening conflict between government and opposition. PAGE 10
POWER STRUGGLES IN EGYPT
Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood was formally sworn in as the first democratically elected president of Egypt, marking a new stage in an ever murkier struggle to define the future of the nation after six decades of military-backed autocracy. He must first wrest power from the generals who have ruled Egypt since the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak. Page 11
National
LEADING THE EARLY POLLS
COMES WITH PERIL IN MAINE
Former Gov. Angus King is the prohibitive favorite in the race to fill Olympia J. Snowe's open Senate seat in Maine this year. Early polling shows Mr. King, an independent, way ahead of his rivals -- a Republican, a Democrat and three other independents. But being the front-runner also makes him the punching bag, and it is unclear whether Mr. King, 68, who seems invincible now, can sustain his lead as the campaign unfolds. PAGE 12
Metropolitan
BUILDING A NEIGHBORHOOD
AROUND ONE COMPANY
When Goldman Sachs, the financial services firm, opened its new headquarters on a former parking lot in Battery Park City, Manhattan, it was an area sorely in need of more shops and restaurants. So Goldman created its own, helped by $1.65 billion worth of tax-exempt Liberty Bonds and an additional $115 million in tax sweeteners. PAGE 1
PLAYGROUNDS FOR GROWN-UPS
New York City is testing its first playground for adults, at Macombs Dam in the Bronx, hoping it will succeed where treadmills have failed in combating obesity. The goal is to lure people off their couches with specially designed playground equipment that recalls childhood play while burning fat. PAGE 1
PULLING CARS WITH TEETH
At 91, Mike Greenstein, of Rockaway, Queens, is still pulling cars with his teeth, using a leather bite pad attached to a rope or chain. He has been achieving feats of strength for most of his life, having learned from his showman father, Joe Greenstein, also know as the Mighty Atom. PAGE 4
Sports
ITALY'S GIFTED BALOTELLI
IS EXPLOSIVE ON THE FIELD
Mario Balotelli of Italy, one of soccer's most gifted and eccentric players, scored what proved to be the winning goal against Germany in the semifinal of the European Championships. Critics have called him both hesitant and volatile, and he has endured racial abuse on the field, but Balotelli, 21, has persisted and his team is one victory from becoming the champion of Europe. PAGE 1
PRIOR KEEPS PITCHING
The Class AAA Pawtucket Red Sox is Mark Prior's fourth major league organization since the Chicago Cubs let him go as a free agent after 2007. Despite a career plagued by injuries, Prior has carried on with the belief that he could still have a second act as a short reliever. PAGE 2
LOW-TECH SWIMSUITS
In the first five days of the United States Olympic swimming trials, with high-tech swimsuits out, only three American records fell while every world record remained standing. Technology suits were bonded by polyurethane that made swimmers faster and more buoyant, but the suits were outlawed at the beginning of 2010. PAGE 3
INSPIRATION FOR A SWIMMER
As a teenager, Karen Crouse interviewed swimmer Mike Bruner in 1976, and her article encouraged Bruner at the Olympic trials. He went on to win gold medals in the 200 butterfly and the 800 freestyle relay. Page 8
SURPRISE AT WIMBLEDON
Yaroslava Shvedova, a 24-year-old from Kazakhstan, played the best set of tennis by a woman in at least 44 years -- she did not lose a point and made no errors. The unseeded American Brian Baker and Serena Williams also advanced. PAGE 7
Sunday Business
RULING GIVES HEALTH CARE
A CHANCE TO EVOLVE
When the Supreme Court affirmed the health care law's constitutionality, many forecasters were astonished. The ruling came by the slimmest of margins and was defended, in places, by deeply flawed economic reasoning. But it has paved the way for an orderly rehabilitation of America's gravely dysfunctional health care system, writes Robert H. Frank. PAGE 1
EX-EXECUTIVE CAN'T COLLECT
Michael Winston, a former executive at Countrywide Financial, won a wrongful-dismissal and retaliation case in February 2011, but is still waiting to receive his $3.8 million award. Bank of America is fighting back and has appealed the jury verdict twice. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
RECONSTRUCTING A COLLAPSE
In the new book ''Octopus,'' Guy Lawson tells the roller-coaster tale of Samuel Israel III and the 2005 collapse of the Bayou Group hedge fund. Mr. Israel's story includes a neo-Ponzi scheme and a botched attempt to fake his own suicide, but other parts of the tale did not make it to the news. PAGE 6
A CALMING BOND MARKET
Long-term Treasury bonds, not to mention European government bonds, have had a bumpy road. But analysts see strategies for finding a smoother ride in the overall market.
PAGE 6
Automobiles
BARE-BONES ELECTRIC CAR
THAT GOES THE EXTRA MILE
Coda says that its body structure redesign resulted in the first made-in-China passenger car to meet highway safety standards in the United States. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
THE GORE ABOUNDS
ON LONDON'S STAGES
A particularly violent London season of well-known revivals includes a noteworthy ''Duchess of Malfi'' and a popular ''Sweeney Todd.'' Bloody-minded times call for bloody circuses, Ben Brantley writes. Page 1
THE STAPLE OF SUPER HEROES
The superhero movie is now a Hollywood staple, one that corporations and advertisers want a piece of. This summer at the movies, evildoers beware, you cannot hide from the forces of justice. And neither, apparently, can people heading to the cinema. Page 1
Magazine
A SNITCH'S DILEMMA:
WHEN GOOD GUYS ARE BAD
Alex White works as a confidential informant for local law enforcement in Atlanta. When a woman was gunned down by police in a rough patch of the city known as the Bluff, the police involved came to Mr. White and asked him to help cover for them. Page 24
A ROCK-STAR DIPLOMAT
What is most striking about Hillary Rodham Clinton's stint as secretary of state is how suited for the job she has proved to be and how improbable it once seemed, even to her. The future stretches out before her, but looking at the world, it is hard to see past the next six months. Page 18
Book Review
MAKING A CASE
FOR AMERICAN INTROSPECTION
In his book ''America the Philosophical,'' Carlin Romano claims that Americans are outstandingly philosophical, surpassing even the greats of ancient Athens. One particularly convincing part of his case is that America is not nearly so dumbed down as its detractors at home are fond of saying, Anthony Gottlieb writes. Page 1
REASONS FOR WRITING
Christoph R. Beha's first novel, ''What Happened to Sophie Wilder,'' is about many things, but at its center it is a moving meditation on why and for whom we write, Sarah Towers writes. Page 9
Sunday Styles
THE CZARINAS ARE STANDING
AT FASHION'S FRONT LINE
Beautiful and stylish young Russian women, with their audacious entrances and conspicuous consumption, have become the most visible new customers for couture in a generation, far outspending clients from emerging economies like India, Brazil and China. Page 1
THE NEW PICKY EATERS
With Americans' appetites subject to an array of dietary restrictions, being a good host can be a juggling act, balancing one guest's requirements for gluten free, sugar free and fat free with another's for meatless, wheatless and soyless. Page 1
Sunday Review
MAKING SOME SENSE
OF THE 'BUSY' TRAP
If you live in America in the 21st century, you've probably had to listen to a lot of people tell you how busy they are. It is, pretty obviously, a boast disguised as a complaint. But they're busy because of their own ambition or drive or anxiety. They're addicted to busyness and dread what they might have to face in its absence. Anxiety, Tim Kreider. Sunday Review, Page 1
Editorial
A RADICAL SUPREME COURT
CARRIED BY 5 JUSTICES
The Supreme Court's landmark decision upholding the Affordable Care Act was a deft turn. Yet, while they upheld the law's mandate for individuals to buy insurance under Congress's taxing power, the chief justice joined the four other conservatives to reject that provision under the Constitution's commerce clause. Sunday Review, Page 10
WATCHING THE CONTRIBUTORS
The secret world of undisclosed political contributions is in desperate need of sunlight. Two government agencies are taking an interest in political groups hiding behind the tax code, and could shed light on the secret world of undisclosed political contributions. Sunday Review, Page 10
A NEW VIEW OF IMMIGRANTS
Immigrants are known as entrepreneurial people, for obvious reasons: those with the ambition and energy to build new lives in a distant land are well equipped to build businesses and the economy, too. A new study paints a broad and detailed picture of immigrant entrepreneurship, affirming the centrality of immigration in the economy. Sunday Review, Page 10
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
In leading a reconciliation with Ireland, reaching a white-gloved hand across the bloodstained tide, Queen Elizabeth II has restored a luster dimmed by her 1992 ''annus horribilis'' and her insensitivity after the death of Princess Diana. Sunday Review, Page 11
ROSS DOUTHAT
For President Obama, the consequences of focusing early on health care may still prove disastrous. But Republicans have big problems of their own on the issue. Sunday Review, Page 9
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Generations of Americans have learned to pity Africa. It's mainly seen as a quagmire of famine and genocide, but here's another way to think of Africa: an economic dynamo. Six of the world's 10 fastest-growing economies between 2001 and 2010 were in Africa, according to The Economist. The International Monetary Fund says that between 2011 and 2015, African countries will account for 7 of the top 10 spots. Sunday Review, Page 11
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
The New York Times is the closest thing this country has to a ''newspaper of record,'' but in its increased presence online, some articles have drifted out in multiple versions and others have disappeared altogether. A Web site called NewsDiffs publishes a log of articles that appeared in multiple versions. A reader can compare the versions side by side to see changes in text and headline, complete with the markings showing the edits that have been made. Sunday Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); REFUGEES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RETAILERS (70%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); OBESITY (60%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (78%); MOHAMMED MORSI (78%); ANGUS KING (73%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%); HOSNI MUBARAK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) CHINA (95%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); SYRIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



36 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: How Liberals Win

BYLINE: By BILL SCHER. 
The executive editor of LiberalOasis.com and host of the LiberalOasis Radio Show podcast.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA has endured much criticism of his legislative skills from his fellow progressives. His conciliatory approach has been compared unfavorably with Franklin D. Roosevelt's gleeful pugnacity and Lyndon B. Johnson's relentless arm-twisting. His willingness to strike deals with corporations has been tagged ''business as usual.'' Many progressives, frustrated over the past three years, have concluded that the political system is fundamentally broken because corporate power has been allowed to suffocate popular liberal policies.
But the Supreme Court's upholding of Mr. Obama's health care law reminds us that the president's approach has achieved significant results. If his liberal critics paused to assess how he achieved such results, they would not see a system paralyzed by corporations; they would see that the most liberal reforms in more than 40 years have been brought about because Mr. Obama views corporate power as a force to bargain with, not an enemy to vanquish.
The necessity of corporate support for, or at least acquiescence to, liberal policies is not a new development in the history of American liberalism. Indeed it has been one of its hallmarks. 
Roosevelt may be remembered for his combativeness toward corporations; he famously said, ''I welcome their hatred.'' But he said that in 1936, only after key New Deal legislation had passed with the help of the United States Chamber of Commerce and the American Bankers Association.
Early on, Roosevelt was quite adept at bargaining with corporations. In his first 100 days, to attract corporate support for the National Industrial Recovery Act, he won collective bargaining, minimum wages and maximum hours in exchange for a temporary suspension of antitrust law, so businesses could fix prices. To establish the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1934, he made concessions to Wall Street that scrapped statutory requirements in favor of regulatory flexibility. The following year, to allow the Federal Reserve to better conduct monetary policy, he gave bankers representation on the policy committee.
Johnson also found little value in warring with corporations. He won a Keynesian tax cut in early 1964, defeating budget-conscious conservatives, thanks to a broad coalition that included corporations. He attracted business support to back his first antipoverty bill by junking plans to promote family farming and push businesses to hire long-term unemployed people. He created the Transportation Department, in 1966, only after exempting resistant shipping interests from its jurisdiction. He incited a new era of environmental protection, increasing federal responsibility for cleaning air and water, while defusing corporate opposition by trading away federal pollution standards.
Democratic presidents typically pay dearly when they choose to fight corporations instead of deal with them. Jimmy Carter sapped his political capital in the first two years of his presidency by trying to pass, with belligerent anticorporate rhetoric, a National Energy Act that would reduce our dependence on oil. He gave two major national addresses intended to rally the public and fend off critics' attacks. At a town hall, he lashed out at oil companies for enjoying ''a position of privilege in our country for too long'' and having undue influence in Congress. But these confrontational tactics failed to rouse enough public ire to trump that influence, and Mr. Carter settled for a far smaller energy bill than he originally demanded.
Or consider President Bill Clinton. In 1993, his health care task force largely resisted meeting with insurance lobbyists as it drafted legislation. In turn, the insurers didn't wait for the legislation to be finalized before embarking on a vicious advertising campaign. When the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, tried to belittle that effort, fund-raising for the insurance lobby skyrocketed and its advertising budget quintupled. Mr. Clinton, his bully pulpit diminished, couldn't get Congress to vote on his bill. He suffered such a humiliating defeat that his ability to enact any other progressive reform was severely crippled.
The realities of corporate power cannot be wished away by any president, no matter how tough the talk, because corporations can and will spend freely during the legislative process. And when they are unified, they have the resources to dominate debate. Even the progressive holy grail -- a constitutional amendment banning corporate campaign donations -- would not stop that.
BUT when corporations are divided or mollified, reformers can breathe. The president can be heard. Business owners can be convinced that they will remain profitable. The dim prospect of perpetual gridlock can be trumped by the allure of regulatory certainty.
Just look at how Mr. Obama handled the health care law. Recently released e-mail exchanges between the White House and the pharmaceutical lobby, which detail a path of compromises that won the drug industry's support for the Affordable Care Act, certainly look more like ''business as usual'' than ''change.'' The e-mails include a White House promise of a ''direct line of communication'' to lobbyists, along with a suggestion to ''stay quiet'' about an agreement that buried a proposal for cheap drug imports.
But the e-mail trove is a case study in how liberal change becomes reality. The key to President Obama's success was enlisting drug companies to pay for pro-reform advertisements. He also persuaded health insurers to forgo a major opposition campaign -- by accepting the industry's proposal for the individual mandate to buy private insurance and dropping plans for a competing public insurance option. As the final vote neared, the United States Chamber of Commerce and other organizations spent millions of dollars on advertisements attacking ''Obamacare.'' But the pharmaceutical industry effectively matched the chamber's money in supportive advertisements, blunting the impact of the criticism.
Health care was not an anomaly for Mr. Obama. His original stimulus package never faced well-financed conservative opposition in part because the United States Chamber of Commerce backed the business tax cuts in the package. We got a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau after Mr. Obama put Wall Street at ease by resisting proposals to cap the size of banks. New standards lifting average fuel-efficiency goals were set once the White House accepted the automakers' demand for a review in 2021 and flexibility regarding light trucks. The food safety bill empowered the Food and Drug Administration to recall tainted items but won industry support by dropping a ban on bisphenol A, or BPA, a chemical used in food and beverage containers.
The necessity of forging coalitions with corporations is understandably difficult for progressives to accept. Every time it happens, corporations seem to quickly go back to their usual tricks. They lobby to weaken enforcement. They litigate to have rules overturned. They abandon politicians who risked compromise for them. Corporations are exasperating, irritating and untrustworthy partners.
But most of the time politics is exasperating and irritating, not euphoric and cathartic. As Roosevelt himself told a group of dissatisfied youth activists in 1940, ''if you ever sit here you will learn that you cannot, just by shouting from the housetops, get what you want all the time.''
As much as Roosevelt enjoyed pugnacity, he also understood its limits. Because Mr. Obama heeded this lesson of liberal history, there was a health care law for the Supreme Court to uphold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signing the National Recovery Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); POLITICS (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); MONETARY POLICY (62%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (50%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIMMY CARTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



37 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: What's a Socialist?

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER. 
The Paris bureau chief of The New York Times.; Frank Bruni is off today.

 BODY:
PARIS
FRANCE has elected its first Socialist president since 1988 and then given the Socialist Party and its closest allies a whopping majority in Parliament. But how Socialist is Francois Hollande? And what does it mean to be a Socialist these days, anyway?
Not very much. Certainly nothing radical. In a sense, socialism was an ideology of the industrialized 19th century, a democratic Marxism, and it succeeded, even in (shh!) the United States. Socialism meant the emancipation of the working class and its transformation into the middle class; it championed social justice and a progressive tax system, and in that sense has largely done its job. As the industrialized working class gets smaller and smaller, socialism seems to have less and less to say.
Center-right parties have embraced or absorbed many of the ideas of socialism: trade unions, generous welfare benefits, some form of nationalized health care, even restrictions on carbon emissions. The right argues that it can manage all these programs more efficiently than the left, and some want to shrink them, but only on the fringes is there talk of actually dismantling the welfare state. 
''As an ideologically based movement, socialism is no longer vital,'' says Joschka Fischer, who began his career on the far left and remains a prominent spokesman for the Green Party. ''Today it's a combination of democracy, rule of law and the welfare state, and I'd say a vast majority of Europeans defend this -- the British Tories can't touch the National Health Service without being beheaded.''
Even in the United States, Mr. Fischer says, ''you have a sort of welfare state, even if you don't want to admit it -- you don't allow people to die on the street.''
So why the prospect of ''European socialism'' is so frightening to some Americans puzzles Europeans, a mystery as deep as the American obsession with abortion or affection for the death penalty.
Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a leader of the student revolt of May 1968, known then as ''Dany the Red,'' is now ''Dany the Green,'' co-leader of the ecologist group in the European Parliament. ''The fight between private property and state property is over,'' he says, and traditional class distinctions are blurred. ''There was never a purely socialist working class,'' he suggested. ''Socialism and social democracy today are about a society with more solidarity, more protection of people, more egalitarianism.'' In a way, he said, socialism is defined today mostly by its contrast to neo-liberalism -- by more reliance on the state and higher taxes on the wealthy.
Bernard-Henri Levy was criticized three years ago for saying that the French Socialist Party was not merely dying, but ''already dead,'' a political alternative for those unhappy with Nicolas Sarkozy, then the president, but little more than a differently situated elite. France's ''gauche caviar'' -- wealthy socialists like Dominique Strauss-Kahn or Jack Lang -- were hardly revolutionary, but merely took their neckties off at lunch.
TODAY Mr. Levy has not changed his views. ''There are no more socialists -- if they were honest they would change the name of the party,'' he told me. Socialism ''evokes the nightmare of the Soviet Union, whose leaders named themselves socialists.'' Today, he maintains, European socialists are essentially like American Democrats -- there has been no ideological left in France that matters since the effective demise of the Communist Party, which was ''the true 'exception francaise.' ''
In his book ''Barbarism with a Human Face,'' translated into English as ''Left in Dark Times: A Stand Against the New Barbarism,'' Mr. Levy wrote: ''I would dream of writing in a dictionary for the year 2000: 'Socialism, masculine noun, a cultural genre born in Paris in 1848, died in Paris in 1968.' ''
But democratic socialism of the nonbarbaric kind has a long history in Europe, especially in France. Even today, delegates at the Socialist Party's summer meetings address one another as ''Comrade,'' a gesture to the past for a party largely made up of academics and bureaucrats -- in other words, state functionaries, of whom there are many in France. The French state represents 56.6 percent of gross domestic product, one of the highest figures in the Western world.
''Socialism here is very statist,'' says Marc-Olivier Padis, editor of the quarterly journal Esprit. The leading figures in the Socialist government are more creatures of the French establishment -- elite schools and careers -- than those under Mr. Sarkozy, he explained, ''a combination reproducing the profile of Hollande himself.'' Mr. Sarkozy was more of an outlier than Mr. Hollande, and much closer to business.
Belief in the centrality of the state to run, regulate and innovate remains a core belief of French socialism, and the size of the state is hardly going to be reduced under Mr. Hollande, whose few concrete promises include hiring 60,000 more teachers over five years, raising the minimum wage (the highest in the European Union) and creating a state bank for innovation.
Alain-Gerard Slama, noting that Mr. Hollande won the presidency thanks to half of centrist voters and a third of far-right voters, all of whom detested Mr. Sarkozy, wrote in the newspaper Le Figaro that ''the French don't do anything like anyone else -- they'll give themselves a Socialist president, a Socialist Assembly, a Socialist Senate, Socialist regions, while, by a clear majority, they are not Socialist.''
To be honest, who is anymore? ''Is socialism really more than pragmatism?'' Mr. Padis wonders. Mr. Levy pointed out that the excitement around the far-left French presidential candidate, Jean-Luc Melenchon, got hearts racing for a while. But the rabble-rousing Mr. Melenchon did not do as well as many hoped (or feared). This month he was trounced for an Assembly seat by Marine Le Pen. ''Some believed the French exception was undergoing a revival with Melenchon,'' Mr. Levy said. He then aptly quoted Marx's famous line about Louis Bonaparte, that ''history repeats itself, first as tragedy, then as farce.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An earlier version of this article described the France's minimum wage incorrectly. It is not the highest in the European Union. (According to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Luxembourg has a higher hourly minimum wage.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters, above, of Francois Hollande, the first Socialist candidate elected president of France since 1988. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); EMISSIONS (53%); LABOR UNIONS (53%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2012



38 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 5589 words

HEADLINE: Last Tour of the Rock-Star Diplomat

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
On May 3, the day after an artful deal to end the diplomatic crisis over Chen Guangcheng, China's now-famous dissident, unraveled spectacularly, Hillary Rodham Clinton followed a scrum of Chinese ministers around an exhibition of clean cookstoves. These are safer, portable alternatives to the crude stoves used by hundreds of millions of women in the developing world -- at grave risk to themselves, their children and the planet. Not long after becoming secretary of state in 2009, Clinton took up the cookstove cause, one of what she describes as ''smart power'' issues -- though skeptical veterans of American foreign policy tend to deride them as soft more than smart. 
In September 2010, Clinton announced the creation of a partnership led by the United Nations Foundation to provide 100 million cleaner and more efficient stoves around the world by 2020, and she has since used every opportunity to implore world leaders to adopt policies to encourage their use. Among them was China's top foreign-policy official, Dai Bingguo, with whom she first raised the issue over lunch at the State Department in May 2011. Clinton can recite the arguments by rote: The smoke from poorly ventilated stoves kills nearly two million people a year, more than malaria. Foraging for wood consumes the time and effort of women and children and exposes them to attack. The stoves are a significant source of black carbon in the atmosphere, contributing to climate change. After a year of discussion, Dai agreed to put it on the agenda for their annual meetings this year in Beijing, raising the prospect that China, which accounts for more than a quarter of the world's deaths from the old stoves, would become the 33rd country to join the partnership that Clinton started.
The Chinese are fussy about diplomacy and protocol -- they like neither surprises nor confrontation -- and months of preparation went into the meetings in Beijing. Then late at night on April 25, a week before Clinton was to arrive, she held an emergency conference call over secure lines with her top advisers at the State Department, arriving at a decision that put the entire visit at risk, not to mention years of effort to improve relations with China. Chen, a blind, self-taught lawyer who endured a prison term and ongoing harassment, had escaped house arrest in his village in Shandong Province and made his way to the outskirts of Beijing. An American diplomat secretly met with him there and reported back to Washington that he needed urgent medical treatment in the only safe place imaginable: the American Embassy in Beijing, where a doctor could examine him. After her aides briefed the White House, which traditionally does not involve itself in consular affairs, Clinton agreed. Hours later, the Americans spirited him in. The next challenge was to resolve Chen's fate in a way that wouldn't scuttle essential Chinese cooperation on the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea, the worsening conflict in Syria, the fighting between Sudan and South Sudan, cyberattacks emanating from China -- and cookstoves. No one close to her would dare put it quite this way, but a question at the heart of her legacy is this: As important as the plight of Chen might be, what is it compared to the deaths of nearly two million people a year from toxic smoke in their kitchens?
What has been most striking about Clinton's tenure as secretary of state is at once how suited for the job she has proved to be and how improbable it once seemed, even to her. ''Not in a million years,'' she replied by e-mail in November 2008 when her political aide Philippe Reines first told her that President-elect Barack Obama was considering her appointment, despite having derided her experience in foreign affairs as first lady during the campaign. His experience, Obama said during the primaries, was ''grounded in understanding how the world sees America, from living overseas and traveling overseas, and having family beyond our shores'' and ''not just of what world leader I went and talked to in the ambassador's house, who I had tea with.'' It's true that Clinton lacked the foreign-policy experience of recent secretaries like Condoleezza Rice, Colin L. Powell or Madeleine K. Albright. Nor was she personally close to Obama in the way James A. Baker III was to President George H. W. Bush. What she possessed was energy, the dogged loyalty she displayed campaigning for Obama after she lost and, not insignificant, her fame. Clinton vacillated for days, at one point deciding to decline. (Her aides say Obama would not take no for an answer; he avoided at least one phone call from her, the story goes, by having an aide explain he was in the bathroom.) Ultimately, as the chief of protocol of the United States, Capricia Penavic Marshall, who has worked with Clinton since she was first lady, told me: ''When asked to serve, she does. And her president asked.''
The buzz at the time was that Obama was building a ''team of rivals'' to oversee national security -- not just Clinton but also Vice President Joseph R. Biden. They all had ''their own public profiles and their own public histories and their own policy views,'' as Obama's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, told me. The meme was a presumptuous allusion to Abraham Lincoln's quarrelsome war cabinet, and the Beltway punditocracy waited eagerly for the egos to clash and the backstabbing to begin. ''This is a building full of people, on a political level, who tried to prevent him from being president,'' one of Clinton's aides said of the State Department. ''And that'' -- meaning the White House -- ''is a building full of people who tried to prevent her from being president.'' Three and a half years later, the anticipated schisms have not appeared -- ''much to the chagrin of everybody who'd love to know on the outside where the disagreements are,'' Melanne S. Verveer, another close aide, said.
Obama and Clinton have instead led the least discordant national-security team in decades, despite enormous challenges on almost every front. They share a vision of diplomacy that is high-minded in its support for democratic rights (in Libya and elsewhere) but hardheaded when those values run up against American security interests (Egypt and Bahrain) or other limits of American power (Syria). They have handled crises with neither rancor nor, for the most part, public leaks intended to shape their private debates. Clinton set the tone from the start, enforcing respect for the man who bested her on the campaign trail. ''Early on, when there were people around complaining about the Obama folks, she wouldn't brook it at all,'' Andrew J. Shapiro, Clinton's former Senate aide and now an assistant secretary of state, told me. The message ''was delivered quite clearly.'' ''We work for the president,'' he recalled her saying.
Not that the two have agreed on everything. Clinton, for example, strongly advocated keeping more troops in both Afghanistan and Iraq, according to a senior White House official. Publicly, though, she unwaveringly supported the president's determination to bring to an end America's increasingly unpopular wars, withdrawing the remaining American troops from Iraq last December and scheduling the withdrawals from Afghanistan by 2014.
The re-election of Russia's paramount leader, Vladimir V. Putin, after a campaign orchestrated to produce only one possible winner, prompted one of the sharpest internal debates so far. In December, Clinton denounced parliamentary elections that were a fraud-tainted prelude to Putin's return to the presidency. ''The Russian people, like people everywhere, deserve the right to have their voices heard and their votes counted,'' she said in Bonn, Germany, prompting Putin to suggest that she had signaled -- somehow -- the protesters into the Russian streets.
After Putin won re-election to the presidency on March 4, some at the State Department wanted a new denunciation, arguing that Putin respected only toughness. The White House, however, did not want to make relations with Russia any worse by questioning the legitimacy of his victory. Too much else was at stake for the administration to pick a fight over something it could not change. And so three days later, Clinton appeared at the State Department and, whatever her own misgivings, dutifully voiced the administration's accommodating line, even as tens of thousands of Russians took to the street in protest. ''The election had a clear winner,'' she said, ''and we are ready to work with President-elect Putin.'' ''The thing about Hillary,'' a senior official in Bill Clinton's administration once told me privately, ''is that she is always the Girl Scout.''
By the time Clinton landed in Beijing on May 2 for the fourth round of what's called the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, the two countries had come to an understanding about what to do with Chen. After days of secret discussions, during which no official from either country acknowledged publicly that he was in the embassy, Chen agreed to leave the embassy and get treatment at a hospital where his wife and children had been taken to rejoin him. The Chinese agreed to allow Chen to study in a university and promised an investigation into the abuse he suffered, even as they denounced American interference in China's internal affairs and demanded an apology Clinton had no intention of giving. ''They had to do that,'' one senior official said, explaining the Chinese aversion to the appearance of making concessions to the Americans.
Clinton called Chen as he was being taken in a van to the hospital, and in his excitement, he blurted out, ''I want to kiss you.'' ''I am pleased that we were able to facilitate Chen Guangcheng's stay and departure from the United States Embassy in a way that reflected his choices and our values,'' Clinton said in a brief statement. She then went to dinner with Dai Bingguo and their two senior aides, Cui Tiankai and Kurt M. Campbell, who had hashed out the arrangement over three sleep-deprived days. Even as they ate and discussed the agenda of the coming meetings -- including the cookstoves exhibition -- Chen had second thoughts, having seen his wife and spoken to other dissidents who told him he had made a mistake by leaving the embassy. Using three cellphones the Americans had given him, he began calling supporters and even journalists, upending the carefully orchestrated narrative. He said he no longer felt safe. He denied, untruthfully, that he said he wanted to kiss Clinton. (He later explained he was embarrassed by having spoken so intimately to her.) Most of all, after saying he wanted to stay in China, he now made clear that he wanted to leave.
It was only after dinner that Clinton learned that her diplomatic triumph was turning into a debacle. She met with her aides, scrambling to learn why Chen's mood had changed so radically. And then she went through the next day acting as if nothing had happened, despite the ''massive elephant in the room,'' as one senior aide put it. With Dai, she toured the cookstoves exhibit, listening earnestly to the minister of science and technology, Wan Gang, explain technology she already understood. She and Dai also had three lengthy meetings and a working lunch, covering issues including Syria, Iran and North Korea, China's territorial ambitions in the South China Sea and American complaints about Chinese cyberattacks, but not Chen. ''Even beside all the happy stuff,'' the senior official said, referring to the cookstoves, ''there was an unbelievable amount of very pointed, specific business to do with these guys.'' Meanwhile, Campbell and others couldn't reach Chen, who was undergoing medical tests for much of the day.
Even Clinton remarked to her aides about the mind-bending experience of taking on so many disparate topics simultaneously, cookstoves one moment, grave security threats the next and then the fate of a dissident whose case, the senior official added, ''just exploded into an absolute circus.'' Sympathizers showed up at Chen's hospital, some wearing dark glasses in solidarity. In Washington, human rights advocates and Republicans, including Obama's challenger, Mitt Romney, excoriated the administration for abandoning Chen and failing to receive assurances from the Chinese about his safety. That night Clinton and her aides agreed to ask for another meeting with Dai the next morning, ahead of her meetings with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. ''We woke up Friday not knowing still if any of them were going to be canceled'' because of the public furor over Chen, the official said.
During the meeting, Clinton informed the Chinese that Chen, before dawn in Beijing but Thursday afternoon in Washington, had telephoned Bob Fu, a Chinese activist who works for the China/Aid organization in America. Fu was then in the middle of an emergency Congressional hearing, and he put Chen on speaker, translating for the lawmakers. The Chinese, who had honored their part of the bargain to allow Chen to attend university in China, ''were floored'' to hear it, according to one person in the meeting. Clinton then had to explain that the United States now wanted Chen to study in the United States. Critically she did not mention the subject of asylum, allowing China to save face. The Chinese were furious at the public scandal they were now facing but ultimately relented, having decided, as Clinton had, that they had more at stake in the relationship than one man's fate. Clinton went on to meet China's top leaders without again mentioning the blind dissident. Sixteen days later, exactly as arranged, Chen and his family flew to Newark, and he took up residency at New York University.
A truth often overlooked in the Beltway obsession with assigning blame and credit is that in any administration, the president ultimately determines foreign policy. This was true even under George W. Bush, despite Dick Cheney's best efforts to create a separate foreign-policy apparatus inside the Office of the Vice President. The job of the secretary of state is to help shape and then carry out the president's policies, something her aides emphasize repeatedly.
Clinton and Obama do not seem particularly close personally, though in addition to cabinet and National Security Council meetings, they also meet once a week whenever she is in Washington, joined usually by Biden and Donilon. ''It's a relationship that has evolved, as you would expect, and it's one where -- and I don't say this lightly -- the president has total confidence and trust in Secretary Clinton, in her advice, in her policy views and in her representation of the United States,'' Donilon told me. ''It's a total trust, and that, by the by, is also historically not always the case.'' Despite their differences in upbringing, age and temperament, they share, in his words, the ''common experience'' of running for president, living in the White House and raising children there, ''of being famous people.'' When it comes to policy, both she and Obama are guided by pragmatism, a nonideological, case-by-case approach. It's one reason that no one can really define an Obama or Clinton doctrine and why, at times, the administration has frustrated those who would have had it act more forcefully when street protests auguring the Arab Spring swept Iran in 2009 or now, as Syria savagely represses its opposition.
Clinton was the first elected official to become secretary of state since Edmund S. Muskie served a turbulent eight months at the end of the Carter administration, when Iran held Americans hostage and the Soviet Union occupied Afghanistan. Whatever she might have lacked in scholarship or experience in foreign affairs, she has made up for with a politician's touch, inside the State Department and around the world. She has an acute attention to detail, remembering names and personal details. In a meeting, she once recalled, unprompted, an obscure article about diplomacy in tough places written by a young foreign-service officer who twice served in Iraq, Aaron D. Snipe. Two people who work in the building told me of instances in which she called to express condolences when relatives died. These gestures and her strong advocacy for the budget at the State Department have re-energized the American Foreign Service, which felt beleaguered under President George W. Bush. Clinton makes a point of visiting American embassies and consulates -- 109 so far -- wherever she travels to thank the diplomats and their families, as well as the local staff who make up most of the work force abroad. She became the first secretary to hold special Christmas parties at the State Department for the families of diplomats with hardship posts in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan.
On matters of policy, her political experience and her travels as first lady -- having tea, as it were -- have served her in ways few anticipated. When she traveled to Uzbekistan in October, Clinton reminded the country's authoritarian leader, Islam Karimov, of her previous visit in 1997. ''That was such a great trip,'' she bantered with Karimov, who has the demeanor of the Soviet apparatchik he once was. The next day she visited a women's health clinic where she had been 14 years earlier. The median outside was newly sodded with grass. On a placard inside was a picture of a younger Clinton. ''I'm really impressed how far you've come,'' she said after surveying the clinic's medical equipment. Uzbekistan's human rights record is abysmal, and Clinton raised it in her meetings, but she won Karimov's support for expanding the flow of supplies for the military operation in Afghanistan through what's called the Northern Distribution Network, which became vital when Pakistan closed its borders to NATO materiel.
''The art of diplomacy is to get other people to want what you want,'' Madeleine Albright told me. She and others say that Clinton's skill as a politician turned secretary is her appreciation that a foreign leader, even an autocrat like Karimov, has his own constituencies to satisfy, his own political deals to make. ''I think that she is brilliant at connecting with people on a political level,'' Albright said. ''No question, she knows how to do what I think is essential: putting herself in other people's shoes.''
More recently, at the NATO meeting in Chicago in May, she found herself spending most of a tense meeting with Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, discussing, among other things, Pakistan's byzantine parliamentary politics. Relations with Pakistan have been one of the administration's failures, in large part a result of its greatest success: the killing of Osama bin Laden in a raid that surprised the Pakistanis and, as even American officials acknowledge, violated their sovereignty. Clinton has labored to get the relationship back on track -- twice visiting Pakistan last year -- only for new crises to erupt, first an American airstrike in November that killed 24 Pakistani troops at a border outpost and more recently the sentencing of a Pakistani doctor who helped the Central Intelligence Agency in the hunt for Bin Laden.
In a conference room at the convention center near downtown Chicago, Clinton pressed Zardari to reopen the supply lines to Afghanistan and act more aggressively against Islamic insurgents who use the country as a base to kill Americans. When Zardari complained that his hands were tied, she rebuffed him. According to a senior official who attended the meeting, Clinton said: ''You can't hide behind: 'Oh, it's too difficult. The politics are too difficult.' '' She offered ways for him to overcome the most contentious issue for Pakistani politicians, but still Zardari demurred. American drone strikes that were briefly suspended leading up to the meeting then resumed in earnest, even before Zardari returned home.
At times, Clinton's empathy -- and her relationships developed over more than two decades of international prominence -- have come at a cost. As first lady and after, Clinton developed a friendship with Suzanne Mubarak, the wife of Egypt's former leader, Hosni Mubarak. When protests against his autocratic rule erupted in January 2011, Clinton's initial response was to express support for Mubarak's government. It was a misstep that took months to overcome and even now resonates among Egyptians who believe the United States supported Mubarak far too long and for the most cynical reasons. ''Our assessment is that the Egyptian government is stable and is looking for ways to respond to the legitimate needs and interests of the Egyptian people,'' she said at the time. Mubarak had long been an ally of the United States, and Mrs. Mubarak was a like-minded champion of women's issues, but as Clinton has said on several occasions since the Arab Spring, those who fail to heed popular sentiment will end up ''on the wrong side of history.''
The disciplined decision-making apparatus under Obama has made it difficult to measure where Clinton has wielded the greatest influence. After three and a half years in office, though, her greatest legacy has been the remaking of American diplomacy in her own fashion, shaped as much by her own personality and fame as by a guiding philosophy. A White House official told me it was too soon for Obama to consider who might succeed Clinton if he were to win a second term, but the names most often mentioned only highlight her uniqueness: Donilon, Senator John Kerry and Susan E. Rice, the American representative at the United Nations. All are capable and have their strengths, but none match Clinton's celebrity.
''I would argue that Mrs. Clinton is perhaps the most significant secretary of state since Dean Acheson, who helped unify the relationship between modern Europe and the United States,'' Eric E. Schmidt, the chairman of Google, gushed as he introduced her at a conference on Internet freedom in The Hague in December (at the end of a six-day trip in which she delivered remarks or speeches 26 times, on topics ranging from the future of Afghanistan to gay rights around the world). Even some Republicans in Congress acknowledge the skills she has brought to the job, though they remain critical of many administration policies. ''I think she's represented our nation well,'' Senator Lindsey Graham, the Republican from South Carolina, who as a member of the House served as one of 13 managers in the 1998 impeachment trial of Clinton's husband, told me in an interview in his Senate office. ''She is extremely well respected throughout the world, handles herself in a very classy way and has a work ethic second to none.''
In the administration's reluctant, limited waging of war in Libya, Clinton initially had her own doubts about intervention, including proposals to enforce a no-fly zone over the country. Robert M. Gates, the secretary of defense, and the generals also feared being dragged into another costly war in an Islamic country. As Qaddafi's forces pressed in on the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, though, Obama gathered his advisers in the White House Situation Room on a Tuesday afternoon -- with Clinton participating via a secure telephone line while she was in Egypt -- and decided the United States could not stand by while Benghazi was overrun. ''This is not what we do,'' Obama said, according to someone in the room.
It was Obama, not Clinton, who led the country into the war, though it was left to Clinton and Susan Rice to win enough votes at the United Nations Security Council and to persuade allies like Britain and France that a no-fly zone meant more than a limited intervention.
Clinton's message to them was blunt. The intervention they favored meant the use of overwhelming force at the outset; it meant killing people on the ground. By Saturday, the United States and NATO struck, even as Clinton returned from her second trip to Paris. With determination and abundant miles in the air, she forged an unwieldy diplomatic and military alliance, at once cajoling and reassuring leaders as disparate as President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, prime minister and foreign minister of Qatar. And she held it together through the next seven months, even as officials in the White House grumbled that the conflict was grinding on far longer than anyone had expected.
When Tripoli fell in August and Qaddafi was killed in October, some of the same officials complained that she, not the president, was getting too large a share of the public credit. ''Libya was a good showcase into who she is,'' Lindsey Graham told me. ''I said at one time during this debate, Thank God for strong women.''
That success has haunted the administration when it comes to the slaughter in Syria. Clinton's aides express frustration -- at least privately -- that President Bashar al-Assad remains in power nearly a year after she and Obama said he must go. A nagging criticism of Obama's foreign policy has been the willingness, even preference, to pursue its goals collectively, relying on the United Nations and other international organizations for legal and moral authority. It is one reason that the administration has found it difficult to come up with a workable strategy to deal with Assad. Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker last year quoted an Obama adviser describing the approach in Libya as ''leading from behind.'' The phrase has stuck because it contains an element of truth -- the administration does not want to lead the United States into another war in the Muslim world -- but also because it encapsulates the bumper-sticker view of Obama's Republican critics that he has abdicated American leadership in the world.
Clinton dismissed this when I asked her about it in an interview in her large office on the seventh floor of the State Department. She started by noting that NATO and the military alliances with Japan and South Korea have been bedrocks of national security through every Republican and Democratic administration since World War II. In ''21st-century statecraft,'' though, ''the general understanding, which cuts across parties, is that the United States can't solve all of the problems in the world,'' she said. ''But the problems in the world can't be solved without the United States. And therefore, we have to husband our resources, among which is this incredibly valuable asset of global leadership, and figure out how we can best deploy it.'' She cited the role of the Arab League -- once marginal and mostly dysfunctional -- in forging international consensus for the intervention in Libya. ''The Arab League was not prepared to work with NATO, work with the United States,'' she explained of nudging others to the forefront of international action. ''But we've worked very hard, and I certainly have worked hard, to create an openness to that, and I think it's in America's interest.''
Clinton's is a humbler view of foreign policy that, Republican criticisms aside, seems in tune with American sentiment. After all, not many Americans are clamoring for a war in Syria. To the extent that foreign policy influences voters at all, Obama has a record of successes abroad -- from ending the war in Iraq to killing Osama bin Laden to overthrowing Muammar el-Qaddafi -- as well as failures, including the early effort to jump-start peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, which has soured relations with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to this day. The confrontation over Iran's nuclear program went from a simmer to a boil this year, with Netanyahu openly pressing the administration to draw distinct lines that would trigger a military attack. The administration instead continues to rest its hopes on a diplomatic solution after three new rounds of talks between world powers and Iran in Istanbul in April, Baghdad in May and Moscow in June. Clinton described the administration's efforts over Iran as ''the hard shoe leather of diplomacy.''
Getting to this point was possible only after years of building consensus for punishing sanctions and increasing the isolation for Iran's leaders. ''There was nothing flashy about it,'' Clinton told me. ''It just had to be ground out. It was the ground game, so to speak. But it laid the groundwork for what we now have, which is a quite extraordinary commitment to imposing very tough sanctions, both multilateral and unilateral, on Iran as part of a concerted effort to persuade them to change their commitment to acquire nuclear weapons.'' William J. Burns, a career diplomat who rose to deputy secretary of state, told me: ''She's not inhibited by problems. If you're secretary of state, inevitably, every day into your in-box comes a lot of really nasty problems, many of them intractable. The natural inclination is to run away from them. And I've never seen that in her.''
When she gathered Burns and others in her office for a senior staff meeting at the start of this year, Clinton had neatly, compactly written out a to-do list that covered four yellow legal-pad pages. They went through it, nation by nation, conflict by conflict, not just the major ones in the news, but also those that have simmered for decades, like the partition of Cyprus.
It spoke to her focus and discipline, but also the urgency of time running out. Clinton has said many, many times -- on the record, off the record -- that she will step down at the end of Obama's first term, and yet few can imagine that will be the end of her political career. Such has been her success as secretary that when Obama's popularity ebbed last year, a spate of ''what if'' stories pondered whether she would have made a better president. Those were followed by more suggesting -- fantasizing, really -- that Obama would drop Biden and put her on the ticket this year. Clinton herself dismissed it as ridiculous, and senior White House officials told me that the notion misunderstood Obama's temperament and affection for Biden. Now there is speculation that she could mount a presidential bid in 2016, regardless of Obama's fate in November. Some administration officials privately acknowledge that she would instantly be the presumptive front-runner, only 69 in November 2016 and more iconic than ever.
Meantime, for all the world's crises, Clinton seems to be enjoying herself immensely, more relaxed as America's top diplomat than perhaps at any other time in her public life. At the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, in April -- infamous now for the behavior of Secret Service agents detailed to protect the president -- she joined her staff for a birthday party at a nightclub called Cafe Havana, where she danced and tossed back beer. (''Swillary,'' The New York Post declared.) Around the same time, two communications specialists in Washington, Adam Smith and Stacy Lambe, created an Internet meme with a black-and-white photo of Clinton in dark glasses, reading her Blackberry on the C-17 that took her to Libya last year. The two juxtaposed photographs of other officials and celebrities and imagined hilarious exchanges. ''She's going to love the new Justin Bieber video!'' one caption reads under a picture of Obama and Biden. ''Back to work, boys,'' Clinton texts back. Far from taking offense or ignoring it, as she might once have, Clinton submitted her own caption and met Smith and Lambe at the State Department. ''ROFL @ ur tumblr! g2g -- scrunchie time. ttyl?''
Clinton told me she had not yet made specific plans for her future, but then revealed some, or ''pieces of things,'' as she put it. She intends to write another book and to pursue philanthropy, championing women and girls, as ever. She hinted that people had floated some ideas already, ''but there's too much to do. I can't stop and worry about what's next.'' She sounds sincere when she says she simply wants a rest after four decades of public life. On a lovely spring evening in Rome last year, Clinton joined the traveling press corps for bellinis at Harry's Bar on Via Vittorio Veneto and was asked, again, what she intended to do next. She laughed it off as always, saying she would love to return and linger right there. ''What sentient being wouldn't?'' she told me later, granting permission to describe what had been an off-the-record happy hour. It doesn't really seem likely, if only because it is difficult for those who know her best to imagine her stopping for long. It would be foolish to assume this is Clinton's last act.
''I have no doubt about the fact that whatever she does, she will be out there working on the causes that she's passionate about,'' Melanne Verveer, who has known her for four decades, said. ''I think the demands on her, the requests to her -- if she doesn't engage in politics anymore, if that is truly behind her -- will be so great. In many ways she's become a world brand. And you know, how the Hillary brand gets used, I think, remains to be seen.''
Correction: July 29, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article about Hillary Rodham Clinton misspelled the surname of a foreign-service officer who wrote an article mentioned by Clinton. He is Aaron D. Snipe, not Snipes. It also misstated which round of the United States-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue Clinton attended this year. It was the fourth round, not the third. A correction in this space on July 15 misstated the date the article was published. It was July 1, not June 17.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Head of State: Secretary of State Hillary Clinton at a senior staff meeting in Washington. (MM18-MM19)
The Hillary Brand: Clinton with Laura Bush at the U.S.-Afghan Women's Council 10th-anniversary luncheon at the State Department. (MM21)
 Everyday Diplomacy: Clinton meeting with Croatia's foreign and European aff airs minister, Vesna Pusic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA DIMMOCK/VII, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MALARIA (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); HOUSE ARREST (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CROATIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012



39 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aide Rejects 'Tax' Label for Health Care Law

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: The White House chief of staff, in interviews, defended President Obama's health care law but rejected the "tax" label that the Supreme Court, in a ruling last week that mostly upheld the law, used to describe the penalty payment required for those who choose to not buy health insurance. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Jacob J. Lew, the White House chief of staff, on Sunday defended President Obama's health care law but rejected the "tax" label that the Supreme Court, in a ruling that mostly upheld the law last week, used to describe the penalty payment required for those who choose not to buy health insurance.
The Supreme Court affirmed the so-called individual mandate to buy health insurance on the ground that it might be "reasonably characterized as a tax." Since the ruling, Republican leaders have denounced the White House for raising the tax burden on Americans with the law, and they have called for its full repeal.
The mandate is a central piece of the health care law and is enforceable with a penalty assessed through the tax system.
But Mr. Lew repeatedly declined to call the mandate a tax. "The law set it up as a penalty for the people who make" the choice not to purchase health insurance, he said in an interview with George Stephanopoulos on the ABC program "This Week." "The court found it constitutional. Frankly, what you call it is not the issue."
"For that 1 percent who have chosen not to buy health insurance, and just to pass the burden on to others, there's this penalty," he said.
Mr. Obama has also denied that the penalty is a tax. "For us to say that you've got to take a responsibility to get health insurance is absolutely not a tax increase," he said in a 2009 interview with Mr. Stephanopoulos, for instance. "What it's saying is, is that we're not going to have other people carrying your burdens for you anymore."
On the CBS program "Face the Nation," Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said the law "has to be ripped out by its roots."
"This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry," Mr. Boehner said in an interview with Norah O'Donnell. "The American people do not want to go down this path. They do not want the government telling them what kind of insurance policy they have to buy, and how much they have to pay for it, and if you don't like it we're going to tax you."
Mr. Lew said Congress should move on. "It's time now to get over the debate and implement that law," he said in a separate interview on Sunday on the CNN program "State of the Union."
"What the American people don't want is, they don't want to be taken back to the old divisive debate," he said. "They want to get on with it, and they want us to be focusing on economic growth and creating jobs."
The ruling has set off a heated debate over whether the penalty constitutes a tax. Republicans have argued that the Supreme Court ruling clearly means it is. Democrats have argued that it is not, given that it will hit only a small number of Americans and is not designed to raise revenue for the government.
The dispute over the health care law, the Affordable Care Act, dominated the Sunday morning programs.
The Supreme Court justices are "eroding our freedoms, but at least they're more honest than the president," Bobby Jindal, the Republican governor of Louisiana, said on the NBC program "Meet the Press." "They called it what it was: a huge tax increase. The federal government can now tax us for inactivity to compel behavior, not primarily to collect revenue."
The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said the health care law in fact provides significant tax breaks for families and small businesses buying insurance.
"The penalty is on people who have the wherewithal but refuse to buy health insurance, figuring they won't be sick and if they do other people will have to cover it," she said on "Meet the Press." 
Mr. Lew, on CNN, also contested the idea that the Supreme Court ruling meant that the mandate penalty was definitively a tax. "They didn't call it a tax. They said it was using a power under the Constitution that permits it," he said. "It was not labeled. And this is a penalty. It's something that only 1 percent of the people who could afford insurance who choose not to get it will pay."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (94%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (60%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



40 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Its I.P.O. Botched, Facebook Looks Hard at Nasdaq

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Tensions between Nasdaq and Facebook are so high that the social networking company is still considering switching exchanges and is weighing the costs of such a move, officials there said. 

 BODY:
Facebook's debut was supposed to be Nasdaq's ultimate coup.
But in the weeks since the social network's much-ballyhooed - and ultimately botched - initial public offering, the relationship has soured.
In Facebook parlance, it's complicated.
Executives at the Internet company are pinning much of the blame on Nasdaq, according to several people close to the company and its underwriters, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of continuing shareholder lawsuits. Tensions remain so high that Facebook is still considering switching exchanges and is weighing the costs of such a move, these people said.
As the drama plays out, Nasdaq, the first electronic stock market, faces one of its hardest tests since it was founded 41 years ago.
For years, the exchange, considered friendly to start-ups, was the preferred place for up-and-coming technology companies. Now, Nasdaq is trying to salvage its reputation with Facebook and the rest of Silicon Valley while also fending off the advances of its archrival, the New York Stock Exchange, which has ramped up efforts in the industry.
"Nasdaq will be wearing that albatross for quite a while," said Lise Buyer, founder of Class V Group, an advisory firm for initial public offerings. "The errors associated with Facebook's I.P.O. will now be part of Nasdaq's conversations."
 Nasdaq, for its part, has expressed contrition, with its chief executive, Robert Greifeld, publicly acknowledging the firm's arrogance during the I.P.O. The exchange has also agreed to set aside $40 million for broker losses. Even so, Nasdaq defends its position as a major player in technology listings.
"For more than two decades, Silicon Valley has played a vital role in Nasdaq's evolution," said Joseph G. Christinat, a Nasdaq spokesman. "Nasdaq will always strive to be part of the Valley's start-up ecosystem."
Nasdaq's troubles come at a challenging time for the industry.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is pressing exchanges to bolster controls, with open investigations on Nasdaq, N.Y.S.E. and others. Authorities are focusing on the Facebook I.P.O., trying to determine if Nasdaq acted improperly as it scrambled to push Facebook live and clear orders. So far, Nasdaq has not been charged with any wrongdoing, but the scrutiny represents a marked shift for the S.E.C., which has traditionally had a light touch with exchanges.
Facebook and its underwriters have been criticized for being too aggressive on the size and price of the offering. Still, many experts argue that it's impossible to discount the psychological impact of Nasdaq's problems.
"Very small actions can trigger very large dynamic mechanisms," said Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke.
Nasdaq is navigating a forest of questions, as rival N.Y.S.E. settles onto its turf.
N.Y.S.E., once known as the dowdy exchange of blue chips, has aggressively courted Silicon Valley in the last five years, calling on executives and holding private dinners at places like the Four Seasons in East Palo Alto, Calif. The Big Board recently snapped up the listings of a number of technology start-ups, including LinkedIn, Pandora and Yelp.
While N.Y.S.E.'s sales pitch used to center on its established brand, it now talks about technology and client services. A few years ago, the exchange also revised requirements to make it easier for smaller technology companies to list. The two exchanges battled for months over Facebook. Nasdaq won, in part, because it agreed to shorten the so-called seasoning period for newly public companies. The move would allow Facebook to join the Nasdaq 100 three months after its listing, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
But the short-lived victory has become an ordeal.
In recent weeks, the divide between Nasdaq and Facebook has deepened, as both face a bundle of shareholder lawsuits. In June, Facebook filed a motion alongside its lead underwriters to combine these lawsuits in New York. Nasdaq, which faces some of the same suits, was left out of the motion. Shares of Facebook, which hit a low of $25, currently trade around $31.10, well below the offering price of $38.
Facebook is upset about Nasdaq's lack of communication, according to people close to the company. Executives were left out of important decisions like whether the stock should begin trading at all given the crush of early issues. Once trading did begin on May 18, Nasdaq did not contact Facebook's chief financial officer, David Ebersman, who was the main point person for the I.P.O.
Executives at the social network have also grown frustrated by the technology problems. Many order confirmations were delayed. These were eventually released hours later, along with stock that ended up in a separate Nasdaq account. But the unexpected flood of shares looked like a giant order of roughly 11 million shares, weighing on the stock, according people with knowledge of the matter.
Facebook executives believe Nasdaq added to the woes the next week. Before the second trading day, Nasdaq alerted traders to file claims by noon if they wanted financial "accommodations" for the I.P.O. Executives believe the notice encouraged investors to dump shares to prove a loss on Facebook, prompting the stock to fall more than $4 in the first hour of trading that day.
Perhaps most disconcerting was Nasdaq's conference call with reporters on Sunday, just days after the I.P.O. On the call, Mr. Greifeld, Nasdaq's chief, assured the press that Nasdaq's errors had not affected the stock's performance.
"It would lead a reasonable person to conclude that it didn't have an impact on the stock price," he said.
The statement was tantamount to an act of betrayal, according to those close to Facebook. Once again, the Facebook team was baffled. Why didn't the exchange warn them about Mr. Greifeld's comments? Incensed, a Facebook executive told Mr. Greifeld, "You don't understand the hole you're in."
Most start-ups hoping to go public are not worried about encountering Facebook's problems. As the largest Internet I.P.O. on record, Facebook attracted a barrage of coverage. Many industry insiders interviewed believe Nasdaq will move quickly to improve its controls. It is currently working with I.B.M., for instance, to review its entire technical system.
Still, the fumbles are ugly blemishes for an exchange that has prided itself on its tech heritage. After dominating technology listings for the last decade, Nasdaq's ranking has slipped. So far this year, Nasdaq has accounted for 11 of the 24 technology listings, with the rest going to N.Y.S.E., according to Renaissance Capital, an I.P.O. advisory firm. "It might be an anomaly," said Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, a data storage company. "But Nasdaq is getting more competition from N.Y.S.E., which has been really proactive out here."
Amid mounting pressure, Mr. Greifeld made one more visit to Menlo Park three weeks ago.
In a meeting with Mr. Ebersman and other executives, he apologized, according to people briefed on the meeting. He acknowledged that he had said that Nasdaq's problems did not impact Facebook's price, but conceded that that assessment did not fully factor in the psychology of the market.
After that, a chill settled in the room, as several executives quietly scrawled his statement on their notepads.
An earlier version of this article misidentified the location of the Four Seasons Hotel. It is in East Palo Alto, Calif., not Palo Alto. 

        
As Facebook Seeks Answers, S.E.C. Investigates Exchanges
        
The Facebook I.P.O.'s Potential Legal Exposure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (56%); LITIGATION (56%) Bob Greifeld; Facebook; Facebookmania; Initial Public Offerings; Nasdaq OMX; Nasdaq Stock Market; Robert Greifeld; Securities and Exchange Commission; Greifeld, Robert; Social Networking (Internet); Facebook Inc; NASDAQ OMX Group Inc; Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; NASDAQ OMX Group Inc|NDAQ|NASDAQ; I.P.O./Offerings; Technology

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Facebook Inc; NASDAQ OMX Group Inc

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%) Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; NASDAQ OMX Group Inc; NDAQ; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: ROBERT GREIFELD (90%) Greifeld, Robert

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



41 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: A Holiday Week in a Tough Campaign

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Summertime for presidential candidates means taking advantage of the long, hot weeks before the party conventions kick the campaign into high gear. 

 BODY:
This Fourth of July holiday week provides an initial peek into the strategies of President Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee.
Mr. Obama will take the first half of the week off and then travel through Ohio and Pennsylvania on a two-day bus tour. Mr. Romney is taking the full week off, except for a brief appearance at a Fourth of July parade near his vacation home in New Hampshire.
But not taking a break are the television advertisements from both campaigns, which are continuing to accelerate.
Here are the particulars of the candidates' week ahead:
OBAMA The president and his family will start the week at the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland before returning to the White House for the holiday on Wednesday. Mr. Obama will host members of the military for a Fourth of July picnic on the White House lawn - one of the perks of incumbency.
But the relaxation ends on Thursday, when Mr. Obama begins the bus tour through Ohio, with a stop in western Pennsylvania.
The presidential trip follows Mr. Romney's recent five-day bus tour, and it highlights Mr. Obama's focus on battleground states like Ohio. It is also intended to get the president out of the formal confines of the West Wing to make a closer connection with the voting public.
Mr. Obama has long complained about feeling stifled and disconnected from the public in Washington. The campaign, and especially the bus tour, helps avoid the kind of "Rose Garden isolation" that his campaign fears will feed an impression that he does not understand the economic plight of struggling Americans. Aides said the tour would focus on the economy.
One thing to watch for: on Friday, while Mr. Obama is on the road, the government will issue the jobs and unemployment reports for June. The timing will give the president a real-world backdrop when he reacts to the numbers - a better image than the blue curtains of the White House briefing room, where he said last month that the "private sector is doing fine."
ROMNEY Every summer, Mr. Romney's extended family gathers at his vacation home on a lake in Wolfeboro, N.H., for a week of competitive sports and private time. (They call it the "Romney Olympics," according to The Washington Post.)
A presidential campaign apparently does not get in the way.
Taking this week off is probably good timing. Voters are likely to be paying more attention to their barbecue grills than their television sets as they celebrate the holiday.
But the weeklong break also fits in with Mr. Romney's overall campaign strategy of trying to keep the focus on the president's record - not his own. Aides say they believe that voters in November will harshly judge Mr. Obama's handling of the economy over the last three and a half years. Staying off the campaign trail, except for the brief appearance at the parade in Wolfeboro, will ensure that Mr. Romney will not say or do anything that might get in the way of that message.
One curious question is how Mr. Romney plans to respond to the jobs report on Friday. It would seem an odd choice for him to comment on the news with his six-bedroom home on 13 acres as a backdrop. Mr. Romney could change his plans and travel to a small business or another location. The campaign has not said what its plans are for Friday.

        
Romney Ad a Response to Obama Attack
        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Face Off in Ohio
        
Romney and Obama to Appear on Country Music Award Show
        
Obama Campaign's New Attack on Romney's Record as Governor
        
Romney Unveils First Ad of General Election

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); FAMILY (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (56%) mitt romney; Political Advertising; president obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Independence Day (US) (July 4); United States Politics and Government; Washington Post; Maryland; New Hampshire; Ohio; Pennsylvania; Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Washington Post

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Maryland; New Hampshire; Ohio; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



42 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the ISM manufacturing index for June and construction spending for May (Monday); factory orders for May and North American vehicle sales for June (Tuesday); the ADP employment report for June; weekly jobless claims; the retailers' report on sales for June; and the ISM service index for June (Thursday); and unemployment for June (Friday). IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the United States International Trade Commission will decide whether it will review a trade judge's finding that Microsoft's Xbox game system infringes four patents held by the Motorola Mobility unit of Google, and a bankruptcy judge is expected to rule on Eastman Kodak's plan to auction 1,100 patents. 
On Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund will release its annual report on the United States economy at a news conference with Christine Lagarde, the managing director.
On Wednesday, financial markets, government offices and most businesses will be closed in the United States in observance of the Fourth of July holiday.
INTERNATIONAL On Monday through July 10, negotiators from nine Pacific Rim countries, including the United States, will begin the latest round of talks on a trade pact in San Diego, Calif.
On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany will meet with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy in Rome.
On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue their decisions on interest rates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); PATENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); RETAILERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (70%); JUDGES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); ITALY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



43 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Small Farmers Creating a New Business Model as Agriculture Goes Local

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- The cultivated rusticity of a farmers' market, where dirt-dusted beets are status symbols and earnest entrepreneurs preside over chunks of cheese, is a part of weekend life in cities across the nation as the high days of the summer harvest approach.
But beyond the familiar mantras about nutrition or reduced fossil fuel use, the movement toward local food is creating a vibrant new economic laboratory for American agriculture. The result, with its growing army of small-scale local farmers, is as much about dollars as dinner: a reworking of old models about how food gets sold and farms get financed, and who gets dirt under their fingernails doing the work.
''The future is local,'' said Narendra Varma, 43, a former manager at Microsoft who invested $2 million of his own money last year in a 58-acre project of small plots and new-farmer training near Portland, Ore. The first four farmers arrived this spring alongside Mr. Varma and his family, aiming to create an economy of scale -- tiny players banded in collective organic clout. He had to interrupt a telephone interview to move some goats. 
Economists and agriculture experts say the ''slow money'' movement that inspired Mr. Varma, a way of channeling money into small-scale and organic food operations, along with the aging of the farmer population and steep barriers for young farmers who cannot afford the land for traditional rural agriculture, are only part of the new mix.
A looming shortage of migrant workers, with fewer Mexicans coming north in recent years, could create a kind of rural-urban divide if it continues, with mass-production farms that depend on cheap labor losing some of their price advantages over locally grown food, which tends to be more expensive. From the vineyards of California to the cherry orchards of Oregon, big agriculture has struggled this year to find willing hands. Local farm sales are becoming more stable, predictable and measurable. A study last fall by the Department of Agriculture said that local revenues had been radically undercounted in previous analyses that mainly focused on road stands and markets. When sales to restaurants and stores were factored in, the study said, the local food industry was four times bigger than in any previous count, upward of $4.8 billion.
More predictable revenue streams, especially at a time when so many investments feel risky, are creating a firmer economic argument for local farming that, in years past, was more of a political or lifestyle choice.
''How you make it pay is to get closer to the customer,'' said Michael Duffy, a professor of economics at Iowa State University, capsuling the advice he gives to new farmers in the Midwest.
Labor, as it has been for generations in the United States, is still the big wrinkle for local growers. But in many cases, experts like Professor Duffy say, the local food system is increasingly going its own way, differentiated from the traditional labor pool of migrant workers that the United States' mainstream produce system depends on. Many larger local farms hire Hispanic workers, but at more farm stands and markets, buying local also means, in subtle or not so subtle ways, buying native.
''A byproduct of local food is that local hands are more likely to be producing, harvesting, packing and marketing it, especially for new farmers on small-scale farms,'' said Dawn Thilmany McFadden, an agricultural economist at Colorado State University who is part of a leadership team for a training program for beginning farmers.
In other instances, Hispanics who had worked as low-wage laborers are now becoming entrepreneurs. A three-year-old nonprofit group north of Seattle, Viva Farms, specifically aims to help Hispanic farmers get started, with assistance in language training and in understanding the vagaries of the marketplace.
''We work harder now,'' said Misael Morales, 35, describing the main difference between life as a farm laborer and as an entrepreneur.
Mr. Morales came to the United States from Oaxaca, Mexico, as a teenager, and last year he and his brother, Salvador, 32, began farming a one-acre plot at Viva Farms. They mainly grow lettuce for markets and restaurants in Seattle.
''Early or late, when something has to get done, you do it,'' he said.
Viva Farms' director of business and organizational development, Ethan Schaffer, said former wage workers like the Morales brothers are often surprised when they realize the prices and profit margins that local organic produce can fetch -- something, he said, that rarely penetrates down to the daily life of a migrant picker.
''They get the ag part, and once they realize how the market works, they're off and running,'' Mr. Schaffer said.
Other new farmers, like Christopher Brown, 26, a former Marine infantryman who worked his first day last month at Grow Washington, an organic farm north of Seattle, have more complex motives. Taking a break from the carrot-cleaning table, he says he dreams of building an organization to help bring other veterans into local farming.
Other urban-focused farms, including one in Oregon City, Ore., called C'est Naturelle, are offering, starting this month, one-stop shopping services: community-supported agriculture subscriptions to supply a family a full diet of food from one place, from eggs and butter to beef and greens.
Mr. Varma's project near Portland, called Community by Design, was inspired, he said, by the Slow Money movement, which has emerged in recent years as a vehicle for financing local, organic food production through groups like Slow Money, a nonprofit group in Boulder, Colo., that connects investors, entrepreneurs and farmers. Of $18 million raised in the last two years by Slow Money, $4 million -- the biggest chunk -- landed here in the Pacific Northwest, said Woody Tasch, the group's chairman.
But the economic path for local food is still in many ways difficult.
The federal farm bill, passed by the Senate last month, has provisions to support farmers' markets. But in Washington State, a program aimed at helping growers build direct marketing relationships with grocers or restaurants died last year in a round of budget cuts.
For Jenny and Alex Smith, both 25, a couple since they met in college -- now first-year farmers on a tiny plot about an hour north of Seattle -- the economic equation comes down to lowering costs and needs.
They live in a recreational vehicle with no television or Internet service, and they hope to break even this year, earning perhaps $1,600 a month through farmers' markets and subscriptions for weekly produce packages, so far mostly from friends and family. But they say a farming life still feels, to them, full of promise. They had boring office jobs in Seattle, they said, and now they have a farm dog named Banjo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Radishes are among the many vegetables grown at Alm Hill Gardens near Everson, Wash., where produce is sold locally. (A7)
 Jenny and Alex Smith, top, both 25, are first-year farmers on a tiny plot about an hour north of Seattle. Above, customers strolled through the Ballard Farmers Market in Seattle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); CHEESE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); NUTRITION (57%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



44 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: At Least 15 Die in Kenya Church Attacks

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- Masked gunmen hurled grenades into two churches in eastern Kenya on Sunday and then sprayed gunfire at fleeing worshipers, killing at least 15 people in one of the worst terrorist attacks Kenya has suffered in years.
When Kenyan forces stormed into Somalia eight months ago, Somalia's fiercest militant Islamist group, the Shabab, vowed to wreak vengeance, saying it would topple Nairobi's skyscrapers and kill Kenyan civilians. 
The skyscrapers are still standing, but militants believed to be connected to the Shabab have carried out more than a dozen attacks in Kenya, scaring off tourists and putting a serious dent in this country's economy and sense of security.
At 10:30 a.m. Sunday, four gunmen attacked the African Inland Church in Garissa, an outpost town in the arid flatlands near the border with Somalia. Kenyan police officials said the gunmen had hurled two grenades into the church and shot and killed two police officers who had been posted at the church's door because of several recent attacks in Garissa.
The gunmen then fired the police officers' high-powered assault rifles at worshipers pouring out of the church in a desperate stampede. Witnesses said at least 15 people had been killed and as many as 50 wounded. The local media showed scenes of bloody bodies sprawled under the church's pews.
About the same time, two other assailants hurled grenades into a Roman Catholic church in Garissa, wounding three people.
''The goons were clad in balaclavas,'' the regional deputy police chief, Philip Ndolo, told Reuters.
The assailants appeared to have escaped.
For some time now, American officials have been deeply concerned about a major terrorist attack in Kenya. Last month, the American Embassy sent out a warning to American citizens about an imminent strike in the port city of Mombasa. A day later, a grenade attack at a Mombasa bar killed three people and wounded several others.
At any given moment, thousands of Americans are in Kenya -- aid workers, diplomats, missionaries, students and safari tourists.
The Obama administration condemned the attacks, saying in a statement on Sunday that those responsible ''must be brought to justice for these heinous acts.''
''At a time of transition, peace and stability are essential to Kenya's progress,'' the statement said. ''We support those who recognize Kenya's ethnic and religious diversity as one of the country's greatest strengths.''
Kenyan security forces are widely considered weak and corrupt, and the country has had a history of attacks, including the truck bombing of the American Embassy in downtown Nairobi in 1998; that well-planned operation, carried out by Al Qaeda, killed more than 200 people, most of them Kenyans. So far, though, recent episodes have been relatively small-scale attacks, like a grenade rolled into a nightclub or bus station, causing few casualties. Sunday's simultaneous attacks on two churches seemed to mark a shift in tactics and ambition.
There have also been several kidnappings in the past year, and on Friday, gunmen seized four foreign aid workers at a refugee camp near Garissa after killing a Kenyan driver. The gunmen, thought to be Somali militants, escaped with the hostages into the Somali desert.
In October, Kenyan authorities said they were sending troops into Somalia, which has struggled with various degrees of chaos for more than 20 years, to push the Shabab away from their border and improve Kenya's security. But many analysts -- and Kenyans -- say they believe that since then, Kenya has become much less safe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sheet covered a body outside the African Inland Church in Garissa, Kenya, on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MANN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); RELIGION (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); FIREARMS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (93%) KENYA (99%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



45 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NUTLEY JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Saddened Town Recalls History With Drug Giant

BYLINE: By AARON EDWARDS

 BODY:
NUTLEY, N.J. -- In a 127-acre medical research campus nestled at the edge of Nutley, N.J., scientists and engineers have performed groundbreaking feats of medical prowess. It was here that Valium was invented by the renowned research chemist Leo H. Sternbach and where advances have been made toward targeting different forms of cancer.
With roots dating to the late 1800s, Roche, a global pharmaceutical company with facilities in Nutley, has been a major player in the medical industry. But the way the residents of Nutley speak of the company's recently announced departure suggests that they view it less like an international corporate giant and more like a friendly neighborhood mom-and-pop shop. 
''Roche was very good to us; they really were,'' said Linda Diacheysn, 48, a longtime Nutley resident and former Roche employee who was laid off during cutbacks in 2009. ''Generations of people in Nutley worked there. It's just devastating they are leaving. It's so sad.''
Ms. Diacheysn's words echo a resounding sentiment in this three-square-mile slice of New Jersey about 12 miles west of Manhattan.
Roche said it would shut down its site in Nutley by the end of 2013 to cut costs -- a move that will put about 1,000 workers (about 70 of whom live in the small township) out of work.
For some, there is a sense of abandonment by a company that injected millions of dollars into the town's economy and made promises to stick around for a while.
On its Web site, Roche stated that it would expand its research base in Nutley and that it would become one of the largest research and development centers for the company.
The company even went so far as to name a compound it had discovered in cancer research -- the Nutlin -- after the town.
''They had made a promise to the community, but now they're pulling out,'' Dave Kealy, 43, a Nutley resident, said.
The effect of Roche's departure is multipronged. One is the economic blow: Roche contributes about $9 million in yearly taxes, about 10 percent of the town's overall tax income, the Nutley mayor, Alphonse Petracco, said.
Some residents worry that their taxes will rise to make up for the loss.
''I was angry and upset when the news came out,'' Mayor Petracco said. ''But they are committed to working hand-in-hand to possibly place a new business in there. It's about replacing the jobs and getting those people placed in new jobs. They're not in the business of bankrupting municipalities.''
But beyond money, many residents have personal connections to the company in much the same way as Rochester has with Kodak, or Flint, Mich., has with General Motors.
When Roche's Nutley campus also handled manufacturing, before it was moved to a facility based in San Francisco in 2009, generations of Nutley residents worked on assembly and distribution lines, or as janitors.
At the local ShopRite supermarket, many shoppers seemed to know someone who worked at Roche.
''Oh yeah, I had friends in high school with parents and uncles and aunts who worked there,'' one shopper, Stephanie Mattia, 20, said.
Another shopper, Johanne Meola, 58, has lived in Nutley for 55 years and has seen the company grow.
''It was there for so long, since I was a little kid,'' Ms. Meola said. ''My friend's mother worked there. My mother's best friend worked there. It was like a family business and really good for the community. It's so sad to see them go.''
The relationship between the company and the town began in 1929, when Roche first opened an Art Deco plant in the northwestern tip of the town. The site was close to the company's office in Manhattan and later expanded into a 40-building campus of manufacturing centers, laboratories and research facilities, said Darien Wilson, a spokeswoman for Roche.
Roche has said the site's closing is part of a larger reorganization in the company and a move to consolidate its research operation to save money. Some scientists worry, though, that the shutdown will hamper the company's ability to keep up with the increasing demand for new drugs.
''There's a certain pessimism about the pharmaceutical industry right now because it's a difficult time,'' said Brent R. Stockwell, associate professor of biology and chemistry at Columbia University.
Mr. Stockwell, who visited Roche's Nutley site in January, recalled signing a red log book of hundreds of reputable scientists who had been to the site. ''Nutley was a really standout facility for a lot of people, where a lot of great work was done,'' he said.
Roche officials say they have tried to support Nutley during difficult economic times. For the past two years, the company has offered each of its full-time Nutley employees $25 to spend at local businesses.
''We'll survive, but we'll miss them,'' said Luther Engler, the president of the local Chamber of Commerce. ''They've been a good neighbor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roche, a global pharmaceutical company, will soon close its facilities in Nutley, N.J., cutting about 1,000 jobs. At right, the groundbreaking ceremony at the Roche site in 1928. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC.) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CANCER (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); WEB SITES (65%); TAX INCREASES (60%)

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (92%)

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



46 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Financial Giants Are Moving Jobs Off Wall Street

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York's biggest investment houses are shifting jobs out of the area and expanding in cheaper locales in the United States, threatening the vast middle tier of positions that form the backbone of employment on Wall Street.
The shift comes even as banks consider deeper staff cuts here, which could undermine the state and city tax base long term.
''Places like New York or London will remain financial centers, but most of the players are taking a much harder look and asking whether they can move large numbers of jobs,'' said James Malick, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group who advises banks on relocation. In addition to higher taxes in the New York region, employers face real estate and labor costs significantly above the national average.
Consultants say they have seen a sharp pickup in this trend, known as near-shoring, as opposed to offshoring overseas. Goldman Sachs, during a presentation to investors in late May, even boasted of the cost savings that relocating jobs can bring. 
''Some functions need to stay in the United States, but they don't need to be in New York City or near the client,'' Mr. Malick said. And with most investment giants facing anemic revenue and more stringent regulation that cuts into trading revenues, relocation is more tempting than it was before the financial crisis.
Low-level jobs have already migrated to call centers and back offices overseas, while top-end traders and bankers are secure in the New York area, experts say. Instead, services like accounting, trading and legal support, and human resources and compliance are being shifted to places like Salt Lake City, North Carolina and Jacksonville, Fla.
Garry Douyon enjoyed his job helping process trades and working with clients and traders at RBS in Stamford, Conn., earning nearly $100,000 a year, but when the firm decided last fall to move his team to Salt Lake City with a salary of $60,000, he said he really didn't have much of a choice.
''I didn't even consider moving,'' said Mr. Douyon, who founded a biofuels company, All-City Clean Energy, in Brooklyn with four partners. ''I liked RBS but I have my roots here, I have a home, I have kids in school.'' A few members of his team decided to go, he added, but most chose to stay in the New York area.
The potential shift has profound implications for New York's tax base and economy because of Wall Street's outsize financial profile. Last year, the industry contributed 14 percent of New York State's tax revenue.
After peaking at 213,000 in August 2007, securities industry jobs in the state fell more than 15 percent in the wake of the financial crisis, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Since then they have risen nearly 12,000, but at 191,200, employment is well below pre-crisis levels. By contrast, over the same period, Delaware gained 1,300 securities jobs while Arizona picked up 2,600.
The federal government does not specifically track securities jobs in Utah, North Carolina or Florida, popular locations for near-shoring. But data from firms illustrates the trend.
Since the end of 2009, Deutsche Bank's work force in the New York area has fallen to 6,900 from 7,400 even as its staff in Jacksonville rose to 1,000 from 600. Credit Suisse's staff in the New York region has dropped by 500 in the past four years, but the firm has added 450 positions in North Carolina's Research Triangle, in the area of Raleigh, Cary, Durham and Chapel Hill. And last year, Bank of New York Mellon cut 350 jobs in New York City while hiring 150 people in Lake Mary, Fla.
New York's status as a financial capital is not likely to fade, and the state's share of securities jobs in the United States has held steady at about 24 percent in recent years. ''Even as the securities industry goes through a difficult time, New York remains the financial capital of the world and I don't see that changing anytime soon,'' said Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller.
But regional offices perform more and more of the sophisticated work usually associated with Wall Street and nearby trading hubs like Jersey City and Stamford. This parallels a shift in some technology jobs away from Silicon Valley to Portland, Ore., and cities in Texas, said Michael Shires, a professor at the School of Public Policy at Pepperdine, who prepares an annual ranking of the best cities for employment.
''I expect to see an acceleration,'' he said, noting that while these middle-tier jobs may lack the salaries and glamour usually associated with Wall Street, ''these are the support people that actually make the stuff work.'' What's more, there are many more positions in the middle of the jobs pyramid at Wall Street firms than at the top.
Deutsche Bank's office in Jacksonville started out in 2008 as a back-office service center, according to bank officials. Since then, technology workers, legal and compliance staff members, and trading support jobs have been added. More recently, some traders who deal directly with clients are being located there. Lower costs and taxes are behind the moves, the officials said.
J. Keith Crisco, the North Carolina secretary of commerce, visits New York three to five times a year, meeting with executives from firms already in North Carolina, like Credit Suisse, while reaching out to prospects. Another trip is planned this month.
North Carolina provided Credit Suisse with roughly $14 million in incentives to bring it to the state.
Delaware, which announced in April it had lured up to 1,200 JPMorgan Chase jobs to the state, is set to pay the giant bank $10.1 million in cash incentives. Alan Levin, director of the Delaware Economic Development Office, estimates the typical salary for those jobs at $78,000 a year.
''These jobs will be here for a long time,'' he said. ''We want to create not just jobs but careers.''
The erosion of middle-tier jobs in the financial sector is not limited to New York. In a presentation to analysts in late May, the president of Goldman Sachs, Gary Cohn, described what he called the firm's ''high-value location strategy.'' By looking outside hubs like New York, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong, he said, the firm could save 40 percent to 75 percent on job-related expenses.
Over a third of Goldman hires in 2011 and 2012 have been in cities like Bangalore in India, Salt Lake City, Dallas and Singapore, Mr. Cohn said. Utah, with looser regulation and lower taxes than New York, has been a particular area of growth for Goldman.
While Goldman's work force in the New York area has been flat since the end of 2009 at just over 10,000, full-time employees in Salt Lake City have doubled to 1,400, making that office Goldman's sixth-largest globally. In addition to its technology and operations staff, Goldman has expanded activities like research and investment management there.
These days, Mr. Douyon is building a refinery at the Brooklyn Navy Yard that aims to make biodiesel from waste products like vegetable oil and grease from restaurants. While he says it is a more flexible way of life and, he hopes, more lucrative, he still feels the tug of the trading floor.
''To be honest, I miss working on Wall Street,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Garry Douyon, right, partners Eric Leaphart and Chris Percival, and Baldev Duggal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); ACCOUNTING (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%); BIOFUELS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); UTAH, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



47 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SCHOOLBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Chasing Broken Bats and Foul Balls

BYLINE: By ANN FARMER

 BODY:
As an avid Yankees fan for years, Edwin Tavarez often noticed bat boys on the field catching foul balls outside the first- and third-base lines and retrieving bats flung by hitters. But Edwin, an 18-year-old senior at Urban Assembly School for Careers in Sports, never imagined that one day he would have the opportunity to become one.
''I didn't know how they got the job,'' he said, ''so I didn't think I'd get it.''
A selection process little known outside of a couple of high schools in the Bronx, however, made it possible for Edwin and his classmate, Bryan Jimenez, 17, to both land batboy posts this season, a feat only dreamed of by many youths their age. 
''It's awesome,'' said Edwin, as he and Bryan shared their good fortune after school on a recent Monday, the only afternoon that week they didn't have to don their pinstripe uniforms and race to Yankee Stadium.
It used to be that most batboy aspirants or their parents knew somebody with an inside connection to the Yankees organization. Or they knew somebody who knew somebody. There was certainly no formal process for applying for a coveted Yankees batboy position.
But about seven years ago, things changed. Once the Yankees announced their new stadium plans in 2005, they began reaching out to the surrounding Bronx community to fill some of their batboy slots.
Two schools, in particular, emerged as pipelines for candidates: the Urban Assembly School and the Bronx School for Law, Government and Justice, both in the Concourse Village area near the stadium.
Urban Assembly received its first call from the Yankees in 2006 requesting that the school provide several solid candidates for batboy openings, of which there are usually five positions: three batboys attend to the home team each season and two cater to the visiting side.
The school's Yankees liaison, Sharon Aiuvalasit, who also teaches English, said the Yankees officials mentioned only a few requirements, specifically wanting good students who could catch, throw and manage the long hours without their schoolwork taking a hit. And since the Yankees often invite batboys back for a second year, any senior class candidates should be planning to attend college in New York City.
Bryan is enrolled in Fordham University for the fall, and plans to study finance/economics and become an investment banker. Edwin will be attending the New York City School of Technology in Brooklyn, where he plans to study computer engineering. Both boys graduated on Saturday.
''You don't have to be that individual who can run off everyone's stats,'' said Brian Smith, the Yankees' senior vice president for corporate/community relations, ''and tell you how many times they've gone deep this year and hit home runs, and so on. You just need to be that well-rounded individual that can come in and be productive.''
Urban Assembly, however, created additional standards stated at the start of each school year -- which include regular attendance, a specific standard for grade-point averages and participation in extracurricular activities.
Teachers at the school rank the applicants. Character, maturity, leadership skills and some knowledge of baseball also come into play. Girls cannot apply since the duties require entering the players' locker room.
''This program is a huge motivator for kids to succeed,'' Ms. Aiuvalasit said. ''This is the coolest thing this school has to offer, and this should be a reward for hard work.''
Bryan, for instance, has helped out in churches and soup kitchens. Edwin participated in Project Discovery, a school camping program for developing self-reliance. Both young men are in the school's mentoring program.
''There were such great candidates this year,'' said Mr. Smith, who, along with other staff in his department, reviewed the resumes and cover letters of the applicants for the two openings.
Those who pass muster next meet with senior clubhouse attendants. If that goes well, they finally have to impress Lou Cucuzza Jr., the Yankees' clubhouse manager, who began as a batboy with the team in 1979.
''We basically want people persons,'' Mr. Cucuzza said. ''They are going to be dealing with many players. And these players have many different personalities.''
Then there's the coaching staff, support staff, managers and owners who are coming in and out of the clubhouse. Batboys assigned to the visiting clubhouse must also cater to a revolving cast of players.
To earn their minimum-wage salary, he said, ''Basically, it's clean, clean and more cleaning.'' The batboys arrive several hours before the game starts to set up the equipment in the dugouts. After batting practice, ''they're cleaning shoes,'' he said. And once the game is over, ''they're cleaning shoes again.''
During the game, they are positioned alongside the playing field. But it's not always as glamorous as it seems. Bryan was recently chasing a foul ball down the third-base line during a game against the Cincinnati Reds. His job was to scoop up the ball and toss it to some eager young spectator.
He slipped on the wet turf and took a tumble. ''I was embarrassed,'' he said, recalling how the crowd erupted into a sympathetic chorus of ''Awww.'' Adding to his self-consciousness, he said, ''I ran to my stool and the camera was still on my face. Everything you do is seen by everybody, because everybody follows the ball.''
As far as getting friendly with the players goes, ''We don't really want them to engage in conversation,'' Mr. Cucuzza said. ''But we also don't want them to run when a player decides to strike up a conversation.''
He added, ''The only way we direct them is: 'You're going to see things in the clubhouse. You're going to hear things. It's private. It's not anything to put on Facebook or Twitter.'''
Some former batboys have capitalized on their celebrity access. Luis ''Squeegee'' Castillo was criticized for writing the tell-all ''Clubhouse Confidential,'' which was published last year. Nowadays, batboys must sign confidentiality agreements.
And no longer are they put through what used to be standard, first-day initiations. A former batboy, Matt McGough, for instance, on his naive first day in 1992, was sent by the Yankees captain at the time, Don Mattingly, on a wild-goose chase for a bat stretcher, much to the snickering delight of everyone who knew there was no such thing.
''That's really a lost art. We tend not to do that anymore,'' Mr. Cucuzza lamented.
All batboys, however, collect indelible memories.
On Bryan's first day assigned to the visiting clubhouse, he was expected to play catch between innings with Vernon Wells, the left fielder for the Los Angeles Angels. Only Mr. Wells quickly ascertained that Bryan, perhaps because he was nervous, wasn't a very good catcher.
''I was beside myself not knowing what to do,'' recalled Mr. Cucuzza, who considered letting Bryan go. Then Mr. Cucuzza remembered what he had told Bryan and Edwin in their job interview. ''The first thing I said to them was, 'Guys, you're not here to try out for the Yankees. You're not going to be assigned a number. You're not making the team.'''
With that in mind, Mr. Cucuzza decided to improve Bryan's catching skills. For the next couple of weeks, ''We took him out there -- an hour a day -- and we turned this kid into a ballplayer.''
Bryan progressed so much that the day after he slipped in front of 40,000 stadium-goers, he got a chance to redeem himself, catching a foul ball during a game against the Kansas City Royals with enough pizazz to garner a replay on television.
''I didn't know how to react,'' recalled Bryan, who kept a straight face as the stadium cheered for him. ''But it was awesome.''
Correction: July 3, 2012
A picture caption on Monday with an article about the Yankees' choosing batboys from the community around their Bronx stadium misspelled, in some copies, the surname of one of the boys. As the article correctly noted, he is Edwin Tavarez, not Taverez.
Ann Farmer is a journalist in New York City who frequently contributes to The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Through a school program, the Yankees hired Edwin Tavarez, a senior at Urban Assembly School for Careers in Sports, as a batboy this season.
 Bryan Jimenez, 17, was given training by the clubhouse manager to improve his catching skills. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



48 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: Mexicans Appear to Favor Party Once Dominant

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Reporting was contributed by Damien Cave from Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl, Mexico; Karla Zabludovsky from Ecatepec; Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City; Mariana Martinez Estens from Tijuana; and Thalia I. Longoria from Ciudad Juarez.

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- The party that ruled Mexico for decades with an autocratic grip appears to have vaulted back into power after 12 years in opposition, as voters troubled by a bloody drug war and economic malaise gave its presidential candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, a comfortable victory on Sunday, according to preliminary returns and exit polls.
The victory was a stunning reversal of fortune for the centrist Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, which was thought to be crippled after its defeat in the 2000 presidential election ushered in an era of real multiparty democracy here.
Buoyed by a strong machine across several states, by the youthful Mr. Pena Nieto's capture of the television spotlight and by voters' unhappiness with the direction of the country, the PRI defeated both the incumbent conservative party and the candidate who nearly beat the conservatives last time. 
A ''quick count'' based on a sampling of returns from across the country, announced by election officials late Sunday night, showed Mr. Pena Nieto with 38 to 39 percent of the vote and a 7-point lead over Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor who lost narrowly in 2006 and is a member of the left-leaning Party of the Democratic Revolution. The conservative candidate, Josefina Vazquez Mota, a former cabinet secretary who sought to become Mexico's first woman president, was running third with 25 to 26 percent. Earlier in the evening, exit polls released by several news organizations pointed to similar results, though with a somewhat wider lead for Mr. Pena Nieto.
He addressed supporters shortly before midnight, repeatedly saying ''Mexico won,'' promising to govern openly and with accountability, and trying to knock down any suggestion that he would reach accommodations with criminal groups, as his party has been accused of doing in the past.
''There will be no deals or truce with organized crime,'' he said.
Though Mr. Pena Nieto was declared the winner and President Felipe Calderon telephoned to congratulate him, the preliminary results suggested that he had not won an unequivocal mandate, garnering less than half the total votes and trailing in some of the most violence-plagued states.
Ms. Vazquez Mota made a concessionary speech soon after the polls closed. Without mentioning Mr. Pena Nieto directly, she alluded to concerns about the PRI, saying she would continue to fight against ''the return of authoritarianism, of corrupt rule, impunity and capitulating to organized crime.''
But Mr. Lopez Obrador said late on Sunday that he would not concede, and would instead wait for complete vote tallies in the coming days. ''The final word has not been said,'' he told supporters. In 2006, Mr. Lopez Obrador refused for 48 days to accept defeat, and led street demonstrations demanding a full recount.
Mr. Pena Nieto, who has visited Washington and New York several times in the past year to introduce himself to lawmakers and opinion leaders, has promised more efficient, expanded trade with the United States and predicted that relations would be strong. But Washington will be watching closely for any hint of his administration's easing the pressure on drug traffickers.
In his campaign, he promised to refocus the drug war more on combating the violence afflicting Mexicans, and has hardly mentioned attacking drug trafficking itself or taking down cartel leaders.
That stance might have been meant to distance him from President Felipe Calderon, whose militarized approach to the drug war left many Mexicans uneasy over the heavy civilian toll -- more than 50,000 drug war-related deaths in recent years -- and eager for a better strategy. Mr. Calderon acknowledged Mr. Pena Nieto's victory in remarks late Sunday night.
That some in Washington intend to watch Mr. Pena Nieto closely on the drug war issue was demonstrated minutes after the preliminary results were announced, when Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas, issued a statement that combined congratulations with a warning.
''I am hopeful that he will not return to the PRI party of the past, which was corrupt and had a history of turning a blind eye to the drug cartels,'' Mr. McCaul said of Mr. Pena Nieto in the statement.
No single issue dominated the campaign -- not the drug war or the economy, which is growing but leaving the poor behind and lagging in raising wages.
Instead, polls indicated that voters felt a general malaise and fatigue after 12 years of rule by the conservative National Action Party, and disenchantment with Mr. Calderon, whose six-year term ends in December. Mexican presidents are limited by law to a single term in office.
Mr. Pena Nieto, 45, a former governor of Mexico State, which nearly surrounds Mexico City and is the nation's most populous, rose rapidly from obscurity through his party's ranks in the state, where relatives of his had played prominent roles.
Critics suspected the party's old guard was hiding behind his fresh face, and in an interview last month he staunchly defended the party, saying that opponents focused too much on its misdeeds and overlooked the economic growth and social programs the party fostered in its heyday.
He campaigned without an ideological bent, as he had when running for governor, and presented himself as a pragmatic manager, publicly signing pledges to get things done.
He made the economy his centerpiece, saying he would create jobs and lift wages, and that he planned to shore up Pemex, the country's national oil monopoly and a vital source of public revenue, by opening the company to private investment.
Mr. Pena Nieto took a lead in the polls that he maintained even as his opponents attacked his party, suggesting that it would try to bring peace in the streets by making deals with the drug networks and would rule by corruption and patronage, as it had in the past.
University students held demonstrations against him -- some protesters briefly blocked his path as he tried to vote Sunday -- and accused the major television channels of favoring him with biased coverage, especially Televisa, the largest network. Mr. Pena Nieto appeared frequently on Televisa in news coverage, advertisements and infomercials, and is married to one of the network's most popular soap opera stars, Angelica Rivera, who campaigned prominently for him.
The atmosphere at PRI headquarters Sunday night was jubilant. Supporters wearing the party's signature red T-shirts waved Mexican and party flags as reggaeton and cumbia music pounded on speakers, and cheers erupted with every new bit of news. In addition to the presidency, the exit polls indicated that the party may have made gains in the federal legislature and picked up control of at least two more states, bringing its total to 22 out of 31.
Some voters said on Sunday that they favored the PRI out of tradition, or a sense of nostalgia for what they remembered as a more stable time.
''Better the old one you know than the new to get to know,'' Jorge Osorio, 70, said, recalling the words of his grandfather as he voted near Mexico City for the PRI candidate.
Still, such is the taint of the PRI, which kept power for decades through rigged elections, corruption and patronage, that many people were reluctant to admit on Sunday that they supported Mr. Pena Nieto. Leonor Acosta Chavira, 77, who waited to vote with about 300 people in Tijuana, said she was worried that others would get angry if they knew of her choice.
''I vote for the party, no matter the candidate,'' he said.
Many others declined to divulge their choice because of government admonishments for a ''voto secreto.'' But some said they could not stomach giving the PRI another chance.
''The PRI had its opportunity for 70 years, and the country didn't progress,'' said Moises Basilio, 29, of Guerrero State, a supporter of Mr. Lopez Obrador. ''We're a country with great potential. The problem is the government has never made the people a priority.''
Liliana Patino, 33, a voter in Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl, outside Mexico City, backed Ms. Vazquez Mota, the candidate of the incumbent party, because she said she ''wanted to give them more time to complete what they started.''
Nearly 80 million Mexicans were eligible to vote, with turnout estimated at about 62 percent, slightly higher than in 2006. Federal election authorities said the voting went smoothly despite some bumps, and a group of observers from the Organization of American States said there were few problems.
At some polling stations, there were reports of a shortage of ballots and missing paperwork, and watchdog groups were collecting reports of vote-buying and other irregularities. Social media sites flared with depictions of disorganization and delays at some polling stations. In one video circulated on YouTube and Twitter, the chairman of the PRI was seen cutting ahead in line to vote, to a chorus of catcalls of ''Corrupt!''
A government hot line set up to receive reports of fraud had received more than 1,300 calls by midafternoon, but it was unclear whether the problems were any more numerous than in previous elections, or had merely been documented by more voters with smartphones.
There were also reports of security problems at some sites, but government officials did not give specifics; they said that over all, feared drug-related violence had not come about.
Mr. Osorio, the PRI supporter, said his name was already crossed off a list of voters when he arrived at his polling station. Election workers decided it was an error and let him vote.
All the parties have been accused of giving voters money and goods in exchange for support, but the PRI has a reputation for being particularly adept at it.
Eber Alvarez, 23, a dental student in Ciudad Nezahualcoyotl, said 15 of his relatives and friends had been paid up to 500 pesos each by the PRI, while the Party of the Democratic Revolution and the National Action Party never seemed to offer more than 400, and typically less. He said he did not receive anything himself, but registered a small protest by drawing a giant X across his ballot. ''I annulled it,'' he said. ''The system is a joke.''
During the PRI's rule, its leaders were credited with modernizing the economy and creating lasting social programs -- the poet Octavio Paz called them ''philanthropic ogres'' -- but they stifled political dissent and rigged elections, and were eventually undone by economic crises and corruption scandals.
The National Action candidate, Ms. Vazquez Mota, 51, struggled to find a message and ran a gaffe-prone campaign that sank her into third place. Mr. Lopez Obrador, 58, hoped to capture the anti-PRI vote with blistering attacks on the party and on Mr. Pena Nieto, and made a point of campaigning in PRI-run states.
Still, Amado Dominguez Hernandez, 43, who lives in Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso and one of the Mexcian cities most affected by drug violence, said he chose Mr. Pena Nieto in the end because he believed Mr. Pena Nieto would improve security.
''Honestly, I think he is going to change the country and he's going to change it for the better,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Institutional Revolutionary Party's presidential candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, waved to supporters Sunday after voting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTEBAN FELIX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 Supporters of Enrique Pena Nieto gathered at the headquarters of the Institutional Revolutionary Party in Mexico City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARIO LOPEZ-MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); MAYORS (72%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (93%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



49 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Home-Care Workers Aren't Just 'Companions'

BYLINE: By EILEEN BORIS and JENNIFER KLEIN. 
Eileen Boris, a professor of feminist studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Jennifer Klein, a professor of history at Yale, are the authors of ''Caring for America: Home Health Workers in the Shadow of the Welfare State.''

 BODY:
NOT long after announcing his candidacy in 2007, Barack Obama spent a day working alongside Pauline Beck, a home health care aide in Oakland, Calif. Together, they cooked breakfast and lunch, cleaned house and did the laundry. Last December, the president mentioned his day with Ms. Beck when he proposed placing most home-care employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act, from which many of them have long been excluded.
Mr. Obama proposed revising a Labor Department rule so that it would give home attendants and aides the protections, like overtime pay, that most American workers take for granted. The department opened an extended comment period and received some 26,000 statements, two-thirds of them positive. It is now deliberating on a final rule.
With a work force of about 2.5 million, two-thirds of whom would be affected by the proposed rule, home health and personal care is the second-fastest-growing job category in the country, projected to double by 2018. As women, immigrants and service workers have become the new face of labor, what happens to home care matters for the shape of our economy, the fate of unionism and the establishment of a decent standard of living for all. 
Mr. Obama's proposal has come up against Republican opposition. On June 7, a dozen Senate Republicans, led by Mike Johanns of Nebraska, sought to pre-empt Mr. Obama's initiative and consign home-care workers to perpetual second-class status. Senator Johanns introduced the Companionship Exemption Protection Act, which would permanently codify their exclusion by defining ''companionship services'' to include ''meal preparation, bed making, washing of clothes, errands'' and ''assistance with incontinence and grooming.'' In assuming that adequate care can come only from suppressing wages, these Republicans seek to pit the interests of care receivers and givers against one another.
To understand this talk about ''companionship exemptions,'' we have to go back to the 1970s, when domestic servants received the F.L.S.A. protections denied to them under the original law in 1938. During a debate in 1971 about extending the act, Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, compared home health care aides to baby sitters: '' 'companion,' as we mean it, is in the same role -- to be there and to watch an older person.''
When Congress actually granted domestic workers the right to a minimum wage and overtime pay three years later, this analogy formed the basis for excluding home aides and attendants. Implementing the new amendments in 1975, the Labor Department redefined home-care workers as ''elder companions,'' which also had the perverse effect of removing from the law employees of nonprofit social welfare agencies and for-profit manpower firms who previously had F.L.S.A. coverage.
The existing exemption mainly serves home-care franchises, an $84 billion industry that is one of the most profitable in the United States. Congressional Republicans and industry representatives like the National Association for Home Care and Hospice invoke the debates of the 1970s to defend a rule that allows the industry to squeeze additional hours of unpaid labor from ''companions.''
They offer a false history of ''companionship.'' From the 1930s until the 1970s, no such job as ''companion'' existed, though there were community volunteers who would check in with a ''shut-in'' or other homebound individual. New Dealers named the job ''visiting housekeeper,'' financing a work relief program that sent unemployed domestic servants into the homes of chronically ill or elderly adults. After World War II, family welfare agencies renamed the position ''homemaker''; hospitals defined it as health aide. Aiming to develop ''manpower'' for the booming service sector, President Johnson's War on Poverty trained home aides. Once Medicaid funds became available after 1965, states embraced the term ''home attendant.''
The title may have changed, but the work has remained the same: a combination of basic bodily care and housekeeping. That care workers substituted for the unpaid labor of wives and mothers further confused their status. So did the home location. As one 64-year-old worker told Congress in 2007, ''I would get time and a half pay for my overtime hours for performing the same tasks for Mrs. G. if she were in a nursing home facility. But because my work helps her to stay in her home, I am deprived of overtime pay.''
The ''elder companion exemption'' has allowed staffing agencies to avoid paying overtime. It treated women who labored to support their families as if they were teenagers picking up some spending money. Conveniently, this exemption came just as home care became a growth industry, aided by changes to Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs. Beginning with the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, these programs funneled more public money to for-profit firms, generating a vast home health industry -- with a tenfold increase in for-profit agencies during the first half of the 1980s alone. By the 1990s, home care was the fourth largest occupation.
This labor market growth made a mockery of the companionship classification. Bill Clinton's administration recognized this and proposed ending the companionship exception, but delayed action until January 2001. George W. Bush's Labor Department withdrew the Clinton proposal. Legal advocates for home-care workers subsequently went to court, but in 2007 the Supreme Court upheld the exemption by ratifying the role of executive agencies, like the Labor Department, in making such determinations.
Using the model of the temp agency, the ambiguous legal status of the home as a workplace and the distrust of care labor as ''real work,'' home agencies have tenaciously held onto the companionship exemption. They do so while getting plenty of public dollars. With Medicaid directing at least $15 billion annually to their provision of personal care, agencies are clearly happy to have government money; indeed, they have depended on it to fuel an impressive 9 percent average yearly leap in revenue between 2001 and 2009. Government becomes harmful, it seems, only when setting a floor under workers' wages.
In today's fiscal climate, the slipperiness of the companionship terminology becomes the perfect cover for states to constrict public spending and for home-care companies to protect profits. States are reducing the hours an aide can spend with a client and targeting housekeeping for elimination. They are able to do so because there is a long history of dismissing housekeeping and personal care as not real work and because both providers and consumers of home care are stigmatized as clients of the welfare state.
Mr. Obama's proposal explicitly recognizes that housekeeping is bound up with caregiving in the home. Companionship emerges as a benefit from the human relationships essential to the job, but it isn't the major task, as the current rule implies. Establishing the legitimacy of care as productive, necessary labor -- a real job -- would recognize the realities of both our aging society and our service economy. It would also begin the long-overdue work of updating labor standards for the workplaces of a new century.
Mr. Johanns and his co-sponsors probably don't have the votes to bring their bill to the floor. But if the Labor Department delays issuing a final rule, home-care workers could remain unprotected in the shadows of the low-wage economy.
This fight isn't simply about the ability to earn the minimum wage or slightly more for working even longer hours; that would still keep home-care workers poor. Its deeper possibility is the potential to re-establish some notion of labor standards, rights and security after decades of gutting them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (89%); OVERTIME (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MIKE JOHANNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



50 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Split Adds To Pressure On Papers

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
With the announcement that News Corporation will be split in two, employees at the company's many print papers are facing a new reality: they are now in the newspaper business.
For years, the success of News Corporation's lucrative cable and entertainment assets formed a buffer between its print properties and the downturn in the newspaper industry. Now, many journalists at those newspapers worry about what will happen as they become part of a much smaller company, grouped with HarperCollins and News Corporation's education assets.
Even before the split was announced last week, News Corporation was acting to streamline the newspapers and make them more profitable. Its Australian papers, which according to the company's latest earnings report have had declining advertising revenue, could cut nearly 10 percent their staffs. 
One reporter at The Australian, who asked for anonymity because the subject was delicate internally, said the split ''comes at an already traumatic time here, with the whole Australian business being restructured and hundreds and hundreds of jobs being cut.''
The reporter said, ''People fear the loss of the security that has come from being underpinned by a vast and profitable entertainment empire.''
At The Wall Street Journal, in which News Corporation has invested extensively in the last five years, a reporter said, ''Everybody knows that the reason the paper is having investment put into it is Rupert Murdoch singularly.'' The reporter, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that while that dependence on Mr. Murdoch might raise some fears, the effects on the paper on a daily basis seemed too distant to worry about.
''This is so far above any of our pay grades and control,'' that reporter said. ''There's a little bit of mentality that we work for a company that is constantly evolving and changing by a family in turmoil.''
News Corporation has a deep, widespread presence in newspapers around the world. In the United States, that empire ranges from well-known properties like The Wall Street Journal and The New York Post to the smaller Local Media Group, with papers stretching from The Cape Cod Times in Massachusetts to The Record in Stockton, Calif.
In Britain, News Corporation assets include better-known properties like The Times of London and The Sun. Mr. Murdoch's native Australia is home to his largest portfolio: nearly 150 news brands, including The Australian.
Some industry analysts predict the split will have little impact on the daily operations of the newspapers. They say they expect the new company to have no debt, and because of that it should be able to continue to finance investments in its papers.
''This is purely a move to appease Wall Street and better display the value of the parts,'' said Richard Greenfield, an analyst with BTIG Research. ''I don't think there's more or less of a chance of layoffs as two separate companies.''
As part of a smaller company, News Corporation's newspaper profits and losses will be scrutinized more closely. But the newspapers will be part of a structure that is difficult to compare with other newspaper and publishing companies, said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst with Nomura Securities.
He said, for example, that it will be difficult to compare this new company with the Gannett Company, which owns television stations in addition to newspapers.
''There's not going to be a lot of peers out there that you can instantly benchmark this to,'' Mr. Nathanson said.
But with the new company's structure, investors will be able to see more easily how much money some of the newspapers are losing. Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli & Company, told Bloomberg that he thought The New York Post had lost as much as $110 million a year. A reporter who left The Post in recent years said that, although the paper spends on certain news stories, it does not have the deep coffers of The Wall Street Journal to devote to hiring, or to video reports, and that it relies heavily on freelancers.
For the newspapers, the one constant before and after the split is Mr. Murdoch himself, who plans to retain control over both new companies.
''The one friend that newspapers had was Rupert,'' said Charlie Beckett, director of Polis, a media research organization affiliated with the London School of Economics. ''Rupert has lost the battle completely in terms of his affection for newspapers, especially in Britain. His love of newspapers, especially British newspapers, has been getting in the way of the share price.''
With the split, the British newspapers may be held more financially accountable. Mr. Beckett already pointed to plans to raise the newsstand prices of The Sun and The Sunday Times of London as another small sign ''that newspapers are going to have to stand on their own two feet.''
George Brock, a professor and head of journalism at City University London, who left the Times in 2009 after a 27-year career, said that Mr. Murdoch ''put an enormous amount into modernizing it.'' He expressed fear now that The Times's big losses will be so much more noticeable under the new structure that it will be even more likely to be sold.
Charles R. Eisendrath, director of the Knight-Wallace Fellows in journalism at the University of Michigan, said Mr. Murdoch, despite his love of ink and paper, would not stick with any asset that he did not believe would not benefit him financially.
''He is not going to run them as a charitable enterprise, that's for sure,'' Mr. Eisendrath said. ''He's going to run them as a profitable business, and there's nobody in the world who has shown more aptitude for that or more commitment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, The Sun and The Times on sale in London
above, the Manhattan hub of another News Corp. paper, The Wall Street Journal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WRITERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



51 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: A Partnership on the Rocks

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
Facebook's debut was supposed to be Nasdaq's ultimate coup.
But in the weeks since the social network's much-ballyhooed - and ultimately botched - initial public offering, the relationship has soured.
In Facebook parlance, it's complicated.
Executives at the Internet company are pinning much of the blame on Nasdaq, according to several people close to the company and its underwriters, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of continuing shareholder lawsuits. Tensions remain so high that Facebook is still considering switching exchanges and is weighing the costs of such a move, these people said.
As the drama plays out, Nasdaq, the first electronic stock market, faces one of its hardest tests since it was founded 41 years ago.
For years, the exchange, considered friendly to start-ups, was the preferred place for up-and-coming technology companies. Now, Nasdaq is trying to salvage its reputation with Facebook and the rest of Silicon Valley while also fending off the advances of its archrival, the New York Stock Exchange, which has ramped up efforts in the industry. 
''Nasdaq will be wearing that albatross for quite a while,'' said Lise Buyer, founder of Class V Group, an advisory firm for initial public offerings. ''The errors associated with Facebook's I.P.O. will now be part of Nasdaq's conversations.''
Nasdaq, for its part, has expressed contrition, with its chief executive, Robert Greifeld, publicly acknowledging the firm's arrogance during the I.P.O. The exchange has also agreed to set aside $40 million for broker losses. Even so, Nasdaq defends its position as a major player in technology listings.
''For more than two decades, Silicon Valley has played a vital role in Nasdaq's evolution,'' said Joseph G. Christinat, a Nasdaq spokesman. ''Nasdaq will always strive to be part of the Valley's start-up ecosystem.''
Nasdaq's troubles come at a challenging time for the industry.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is pressing exchanges to bolster controls, with open investigations on Nasdaq, N.Y.S.E. and others. Authorities are focusing on the Facebook I.P.O., trying to determine if Nasdaq acted improperly as it scrambled to push Facebook live and clear orders. So far, Nasdaq has not been charged with any wrongdoing, but the scrutiny represents a marked shift for the S.E.C., which has traditionally had a light touch with exchanges.
Facebook and its underwriters have been criticized for being too aggressive on the size and price of the offering. Still, many experts argue that it's impossible to discount the psychological impact of Nasdaq's problems.
''Very small actions can trigger very large dynamic mechanisms,'' said Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke.
Nasdaq is navigating a forest of questions, as rival N.Y.S.E. settles onto its turf.
N.Y.S.E., once known as the dowdy exchange of blue chips, has aggressively courted Silicon Valley in the last five years, calling on executives and holding private dinners at places like the Four Seasons in Palo Alto. The Big Board recently snapped up the listings of a number of technology start-ups, including LinkedIn, Pandora and Yelp.
While N.Y.S.E.'s sales pitch used to center on its established brand, it now talks about technology and client services. A few years ago, the exchange also revised requirements to make it easier for smaller technology companies to list. The two exchanges battled for months over Facebook. Nasdaq won, in part, because it agreed to shorten the so-called seasoning period for newly public companies. The move would allow Facebook to join the Nasdaq 100 three months after its listing, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
But the short-lived victory has become an ordeal.
In recent weeks, the divide between Nasdaq and Facebook has deepened, as both face a bundle of shareholder lawsuits. In June, Facebook filed a motion alongside its lead underwriters to combine these lawsuits in New York. Nasdaq, which faces some of the same suits, was left out of the motion. Shares of Facebook, which hit a low of $25, currently trade around $31.10, well below the offering price of $38.
Facebook is upset about Nasdaq's lack of communication, according to people close to the company. Executives were left out of important decisions like whether the stock should begin trading at all given the crush of early issues. Once trading did begin on May 18, Nasdaq did not contact Facebook's chief financial officer, David Ebersman, who was the main point person for the I.P.O.
Executives at the social network have also grown frustrated by the technology problems. Many order confirmations were delayed. These were eventually released hours later, along with stock that ended up in a separate Nasdaq account. But the unexpected flood of shares looked like a giant order of roughly 11 million shares, weighing on the stock, according people with knowledge of the matter.
Facebook executives believe Nasdaq added to the woes the next week. Before the second trading day, Nasdaq alerted traders to file claims by noon if they wanted financial ''accommodations'' for the I.P.O. Executives believe the notice encouraged investors to dump shares to prove a loss on Facebook, prompting the stock to fall more than $4 in the first hour of trading that day.
Perhaps most disconcerting was Nasdaq's conference call with reporters on Sunday, just days after the I.P.O. On the call, Mr. Greifeld, Nasdaq's chief, assured the press that Nasdaq's errors had not affected the stock's performance.
''It would lead a reasonable person to conclude that it didn't have an impact on the stock price,'' he said.
The statement was tantamount to an act of betrayal, according to those close to Facebook. Once again, the Facebook team was baffled. Why didn't the exchange warn them about Mr. Greifeld's comments? Incensed, a Facebook executive told Mr. Greifeld, ''You don't understand the hole you're in.''
Most start-ups hoping to go public are not worried about encountering Facebook's problems. As the largest Internet I.P.O. on record, Facebook attracted a barrage of coverage. Many industry insiders interviewed believe Nasdaq will move quickly to improve its controls. It is currently working with I.B.M., for instance, to review its entire technical system.
Still, the fumbles are ugly blemishes for an exchange that has prided itself on its tech heritage. After dominating technology listings for the last decade, Nasdaq's ranking has slipped. So far this year, Nasdaq has accounted for 11 of the 24 technology listings, with the rest going to N.Y.S.E., according to Renaissance Capital, an I.P.O. advisory firm. ''It might be an anomaly,'' said Aaron Levie, the chief executive of Box, a data storage company. ''But Nasdaq is getting more competition from N.Y.S.E., which has been really proactive out here.''
Amid mounting pressure, Mr. Greifeld made one more visit to Menlo Park three weeks ago.
In a meeting with Mr. Ebersman and other executives, he apologized, according to people briefed on the meeting. He acknowledged that he had said that Nasdaq's problems did not impact Facebook's price, but conceded that that assessment did not fully factor in the psychology of the market.
After that, a chill settled in the room, as several executives quietly scrawled his statement on their notepads.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Zuckerberg, the chief of Facebook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Nasdaq's chief executive, Robert Greifeld, has apologized to Facebook for the way his exchange handled the company's stock market debut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS
 MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (56%); LITIGATION (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); ROBERT GREIFELD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



52 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Stung by Recession, Young Voters Shed Image as Obama Brigade

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta, and Malia Wollan from San Francisco. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
Maria Verdugo, a 20-year-old graduate of the University of California, Santa Cruz, barely remembers the presidential election of 2008 -- the one that spawned a youth movement that was singular in its scope and political effectiveness -- except for ''something about Obama saying we needed a change.''
These days, Ms. Verdugo is so busy working to pay off her student loans that she has not decided whether to register ''as a Democrat, a Republican or what,'' she said.
Chad Tevlin, 19, a student trying to pay for college by cleaning portable toilets in South Bend, Ind., cannot recall if he registered to vote at all. ''Pointless'' is how he describes politics. 
And Kristen Klenke, a music student in central Michigan, has decided to skip this election altogether. ''I know it sounds horrible,'' said Ms. Klenke, 20. ''But there's a lot of discouragement going around.''
In the four years since President Obama swept into office in large part with the support of a vast army of young people, a new corps of men and women have come of voting age with views shaped largely by the recession. And unlike their counterparts in the millennial generation who showed high levels of enthusiasm for Mr. Obama at this point in 2008, the nation's first-time voters are less enthusiastic about him, are significantly more likely to identify as conservative and cite a growing lack of faith in government in general, according to interviews, experts and recent polls.
Polls show that Americans under 30 are still inclined to support Mr. Obama by a wide margin. But the president may face a particular challenge among voters ages 18 to 24. In that group, his lead over Mitt Romney -- 12 points -- is about half of what it is among 25- to 29-year-olds, according to an online survey this spring by the Harvard Institute of Politics. And among whites in the younger group, Mr. Obama's lead vanishes altogether.
Among all 18- to 29-year-olds, the poll found a high level of undecided voters; 30 percent indicated that they had not yet made up their mind. And turnout among this group is expected to be significantly lower than for older voters.
''The concern for Obama, and the opportunity for Romney, is in the 18- to 24-year-olds who don't have the historical or direct connection to the campaign or the movement of four years ago,'' said John Della Volpe, director of polling at the Harvard Institute of Politics. ''We're also seeing that these younger members of this generation are beginning to show some more conservative traits. It doesn't mean they are Republican. It means Republicans have an opportunity.''
Experts say the impact of the recession and the slow recovery should not be underestimated. The newest potential voters -- some 17 million people -- have been shaped more by harsh economic times in their formative years than by anything else, and that force does not tend to be galvanizing in a positive way.
For 18- and 19-year-olds, the unemployment rate as of May was 23.5 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. For those ages 20 to 24, the rate falls to 12.9 percent, compared with the national unemployment rate of 8.2 percent for all ages. The impact of the recession on the young has created a disillusionment about politics in general, several experts suggested.
''I think the lack of excitement right now is palpable enough to be a challenge to the re-election campaign'' of Mr. Obama, said Peter Levine, director of the Center for Information and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University.
The Romney campaign intends to seize the moment, with new online and campus-based initiatives rolling out in the next few weeks, said Joshua Baca, the campaign's national coalition director. He said the message would be simple: Mr. Obama's economic policies are not working for young people.
The strategy? ''Dorm room to dorm room'' or ''parent's basement to parent's basement, wherever they are because of the economy, that's where we'll be going,'' Mr. Baca said. ''The key to this is having a very strong volunteer base to knock on doors.''
For its part, the Obama campaign has already started outreach efforts focusing on teenagers in high school. It has organized youth rallies in swing states over the last few months and plans to be a force on college campuses in the fall.
Campaign officials expressed confidence.
''Young people know what's at stake,'' said Clo Ewing, an Obama campaign spokeswoman. ''So just as they came out in huge numbers to organize and lead a movement in 2008, their energy and commitment will help build this campaign again in 2012.''
In 2008, Mr. Obama was the first to recognize the full power of the youth vote as a game changer, and his timing coincided with a political awakening among young Americans after a tumultuous period that included the Sept. 11 attacks, the beginning of the Afghanistan and Iraq wars and the government failures during Hurricane Katrina.
But since then, the mood of the country has changed. Beyond that, Republicans in several states have recently passed more restrictive election laws, which they say will fight fraud; Democrats say they will make it harder for some of their main constituencies -- youths, for instance -- to vote.
Mr. Tevlin, the Indiana student, said his exhaustive search for meaningful summer employment was so futile that he took a job cleaning toilets and septic tanks. ''I think we're in pretty deep trouble, and the future, as far as jobs, is not looking good at all,'' he said.
A political science major, Mr. Tevlin has become more cynical over recent years. ''I see lies and I hear lies, nothing gets past partisanship, and I don't believe anything,'' he said. ''I think the party system is stupid.''
In the last three general elections, young voters have given Democrats a majority of their votes, according to exit polls.
Today, specifically, the youngest potential voters are more likely than their older peers to think it is important to protect individual liberties from government, the Harvard data suggest, and less likely to think it is important to tackle things like climate change, health care or immigration.
Mr. Tevlin, for instance, found the Supreme Court ruling upholding Mr. Obama's health care law troubling.
''I don't think the government should force you to buy anything,'' he said.
Brandon Dennis is one voter who says he is open to someone new. Mr. Dennis, 20, comes from a black family of Obama supporters. But when he came of age to vote, he registered as an independent. He is listening to Mr. Romney's appeals.
''This time, it's more about what you're going to do for the economy,'' said Mr. Dennis, a chemistry major at Clark Atlanta University.
Vanessa Espinoza, 19, who lives in eastern Iowa, says she does care about this election but has been unable to commit to a political party. As a conservative Catholic, she sides with Republicans on issues like abortion. As a full-time factory worker without health insurance, she favors the president's health care law, which may have finally swayed her.
Still, her endorsement is less than resounding.
''I lean a little toward Obama,'' she said. ''I guess.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chad Tevlin, 19, who cleans portable toilets to support himself during college, says he finds politics pointless. Vanessa Espinoza, 19, says she cares about the election but has not yet chosen a political party. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



53 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: A Holiday Week In a Tough Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Summertime presents a challenge for a presidential candidate: how to take advantage of the long, hot weeks before the party conventions kick the campaign into high gear?
This Fourth of July holiday week provides an initial peek into the strategies of President Obama and Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee.
Mr. Obama will take the first half of the week off and then travel through Ohio and Pennsylvania on a two-day bus tour. Mr. Romney is taking the full week off, except for a brief appearance at a Fourth of July parade near his vacation home in New Hampshire. 
But not taking a break are the television advertisements from both campaigns, which are continuing to accelerate.
Here are the particulars of the candidates' week ahead:
OBAMA The president and his family will start the week at the Camp David presidential retreat in Maryland before returning to the White House for the holiday on Wednesday. Mr. Obama will host members of the military for a Fourth of July picnic on the White House lawn - one of the perks of incumbency.
But the relaxation ends on Thursday, when Mr. Obama begins the bus tour through Ohio, with a stop in western Pennsylvania.
The presidential trip follows Mr. Romney's recent five-day bus tour, and it highlights Mr. Obama's focus on battleground states like Ohio. It is also intended to get the president out of the formal confines of the West Wing to make a closer connection with the voting public.
Mr. Obama has long complained about feeling stifled and disconnected from the public in Washington. The campaign, and especially the bus tour, helps avoid the kind of ''Rose Garden isolation'' that his campaign fears will feed an impression that he does not understand the economic plight of struggling Americans. Aides said the tour would focus on the economy.
One thing to watch for: on Friday, while Mr. Obama is on the road, the government will issue the jobs and unemployment reports for June. The timing will give the president a real-world backdrop when he reacts to the numbers - a better image than the blue curtains of the White House briefing room, where he said last month that the ''private sector is doing fine.''
ROMNEY Every summer, Mr. Romney's extended family gathers at his vacation home on a lake in Wolfeboro, N.H., for a week of competitive sports and private time. (They call it the ''Romney Olympics,'' according to The Washington Post.)
A presidential campaign apparently does not get in the way.
Taking this week off is probably good timing. Voters are likely to be paying more attention to their barbecue grills than their television sets as they celebrate the holiday.
But the weeklong break also fits in with Mr. Romney's overall campaign strategy of trying to keep the focus on the president's record - not his own. Aides say they believe that voters in November will harshly judge Mr. Obama's handling of the economy over the last three and a half years. Staying off the campaign trail, except for the brief appearance at the parade in Wolfeboro, will ensure that Mr. Romney will not say or do anything that might get in the way of that message.
One curious question is how Mr. Romney plans to respond to the jobs report on Friday. It would seem an odd choice for him to comment on the news with his six-bedroom home on 13 acres as a backdrop. Mr. Romney could change his plans and travel to a small business or another location. The campaign has not said what its plans are for Friday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama leaving for Camp David on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); FAMILY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (55%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



54 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: For a Vacation Spot, It's Not Just Another Summer

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WOLFEBORO, N.H. -- Coast Guard boats. Men in dark glasses driving S.U.V.'s. Pasty reporters, drinking up the sunlight with notepads and cameras in hand.
The signs pointed to just one thing: Mitt Romney, currently Wolfeboro's most famous summer resident and the presumed Republican nominee for president, was in town.
And so, as the members of the Romney clan slowly gathered here over the weekend to start their annual vacation -- 30 people total, including all 5 sons and 18 grandchildren, happily ensconced at the multimillion-dollar lakefront compound by Saturday night -- the town that bills itself as ''the oldest summer resort in America'' began wondering just what a Romney presidency would mean for their calm and scenic way of life. 
Though Mr. Romney still faces a tough electoral path to the White House in November, knowing looks and murmured questions were already swirling on Main Street, where families padded off the docks to lick drippy ice cream cones and ponder their buzzed-about guest. Would Mr. Romney continue to be the same ''regular guy'' who stopped into Dive Winnipesaukee last month, clad in jeans and boat shoes, to pick up four paddle boards? Would his Secret Service detail and motorcade further snarl traffic on Main Street? Could Wolfeboro become the next Kennebunkport, Me., as a summer White House, and would it even want to be?
That Mr. Romney's presence threatens to upend the very quaintness and tranquillity that first led the Romneys to summer here was not lost on his son Josh, who helped open a Wolfeboro campaign office (complete with a dock) on Saturday morning.
''We hope we can stay as low-profile as possible,'' Josh Romney said. ''And in reality, we hope America doesn't discover how cool this place is, because we love having it to ourselves.''
That might be tough. Reporters have already begun descending en masse, renting pontoon and ski boats to better stake out Mr. Romney's waterfront house. And just about every resident has been recounting a Mitt Romney story -- the time someone saw him doing his own shopping at Hunter's grocery down on Main (''Just him and one son''); the time someone spotted him piloting his modest Boston Whaler under the bridge, with his wife, Ann, at his side (''You would expect someone with his money to have a bigger boat, but he tries to fit in''); and the time someone waited on his family at dinner (''Just really nice and smiley and polite'').
Mr. Romney is hardly the first politician to bathe a favorite vacation spot in attention -- both wanted and unwanted. Ronald Reagan had his Western White House in California, and George W. Bush enjoyed clearing brush at his beloved Crawford, Tex., ranch. Martha's Vineyard played host to both the Clintons and the Obamas. (President Obama also favors Hawaii, where he was born and attended high school and where he has been known to sneak out for some shave ice and plate lunch.)
But Wolfeboro may be most similar to Kennebunkport, the town that the elder President Bush helped put on the map with his family's compound at Walker's Point. Initially, residents there worried that the area would be overrun by gawkers and turned into a ''Bush Gardens North,'' fears that were largely unfounded.
Interviews with nearly two dozen Wolfeboro residents reveal a town that is both uneasy and excited about its starring role. They pride themselves on their low-key attitude, which has made Wolfeboro a favored escape of celebrities and Bostonians alike, who come here to relax and recharge. But they also worry that an actual president of the United States and the accompanying entourage could threaten even their New England nonchalance.
''One of the things he likes about this town is nobody makes anything of him,'' said Ron Barlett, 65, a neighbor of Mr. Romney's who works part-time at a grocery store in town. ''Nobody cares.''
Though Mr. Barlett said he had noticed an influx of traffic on his quiet road -- which ends in a cul-de-sac, with Mr. Romney's house hidden by a long driveway thick with trees -- his main concern now was that Mr. and Mrs. Romney would no longer be able to freely ride their bikes around town.
''There will be times when there will be a five-car motorcade,'' he said. ''You wave at it, and you just don't know what car he's in. Hopefully he waves back.''
Last August, while campaigning in Manchester, N.H., Mr. Romney talked up the economic benefits of having a president who summered in the state, a view echoed by some residents.
''Economic times are tough, and small businesses are desperate, believe me, so if it takes Romney hitting Wolfeboro as his summer residency, I'll take it,'' said Rhonda Martin, 59, the owner of Crepes Ooh La La. ''You don't look a gift horse in the mouth.''
Another woman, who owns a specialty foods store in town, said that while she did not support Mr. Romney's policies, particularly on same-sex marriage, he and his family had always been polite, and she was more than happy to take his money. But others are more skeptical. Pam MacCulloch, 35, a year-round resident, said, ''For me, honestly, personally, I am hoping he doesn't win because of what it would mean for Wolfeboro.
''I can tell you summers are challenging enough as it is with all of the regular tourists,'' Ms. MacCulloch said, finishing up an ice cream cone from Bailey's Bubble (also Mr. Romney's preferred place for dairy treats). ''If you're bringing in Mitt Romney and his entire brigade, it just makes things more difficult.''
So far, save for three Mitt Romney books on display in Wolfeboro Casuals, a resort clothing shop on Main Street, there are few overt signs of the candidate's presence. David Hemenway, 66, who owns the store, said that he mainly gets positive comments about the books, but he has a ready retort for the naysayers: ''Mitt Romney has a summer house here, and you should know who's running for president.''
Though Mr. Romney is expected to march in Wolfeboro's Fourth of July parade, his stated purpose here is a week of vacation. Still, there are rumors that his campaign may try to smuggle vice-presidential contenders up for some one-on-one time with Mr. Romney. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio is already scheduled to be in the state on Saturday for a Republican Party fund-raiser.
But for now, Mr. Romney and his family are staying under the radar. Late Saturday afternoon, his oldest son, Tagg, emerged from a gift shop with a shopping bag and one of his six children in tow. His wife, just a few doors down, soon joined him, and together they looked like an average Wolfeboro summer family -- sun-flecked and happy and tired.
The family headed back to the dock, and with nary a glance or a raised eyebrow of recognition, they boarded their boat and motored back across the lake, toward their secluded getaway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney's home, middle, in Wolfeboro, N.H., a popular New England vacation spot. The Romneys have often spent part of the summer in town, going about daily business on Main Street in Wolfeboro or going out on Lake Winnipesaukee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM COLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ICE CREAM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (73%); RESORTS (71%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



55 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: A Summer Storm's Disruption Is Felt in the Technology Cloud

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
The cutting edge of the Web just bled a little.
On Friday night, lightning in Virginia took out part of Amazon's cloud computing service, called Amazon Web Services, which hundreds of companies use for data storage and computation. Well-known sites like Netflix, Pinterest and Instagram were not accessible for hours. There was little information for customers about what had happened, or even whether user data was safe.
The interruption underlined how businesses and consumers are increasingly exposed to unforeseen risks and wrenching disruptions as they increasingly embrace life in the cloud. It was also a big blow to what is probably the fastest-growing part of the media business, start-ups on the social Web that attract millions of users seemingly overnight. 
Besides Internet-connected computers, tablets and smartphones, which people rely on daily, consumers and businesses are connected to the Web through everything from cars and appliances to utility monitors and surveillance cameras. How well the systems behind these are built, and how they handle unforeseen disruptions, will increasingly affect the larger economy.
Amazon has built a thriving business in cloud computing, with a range of customers including Intercontinental Hotels, Fox Entertainment, Unilever, Spotify, as well as 187 government agencies and hundreds of small start-ups looking for the cheapest possible computing.
None of these big customers reported any service disruptions. While it was not clear if they were using the Amazon center that was crippled, analysts said the disruption would cause renewed scrutiny of their dependence on cloud computing.
''The way companies view it is in terms of reliability generally,'' said Michael Chui, a senior fellow at McKinsey & Company. Big customers of Amazon, he said, ''have the opportunity to shape the marketplace and make demands that make products better. They will push for improvements.''
They will also have another option. On Thursday, Google said it would offer computing over the Internet at half the price of Amazon.
The weekend's disruption happened after a lightning storm caused the power to fail at the Amazon Web Services center in Northern Virginia containing thousands of computer servers. For reasons Amazon was still unsure of on Sunday, the data center's backup generator also failed.
By midday Saturday, Amazon said in a statement that it had restored service ''to most of our impacted customers, and continue to work to restore service to our remaining impacted customers,'' adding, ''we will share more details on this event in the coming days.'' The company had no further comment.
It was at least the second major failure for Amazon in that area. In April 2011, a problem in Amazon's networking at a nearby data center took down a number of applications and popular Web sites, including Reddit and Quora, for more than a day.
To be sure, Amazon Web Services held up better than many utilities affected by the storm, which left more than four million homes and businesses without power on the East Coast. By Sunday, some Instagram customers in the Washington area could, through their cellphones, share pictures on the Web before they had lights or safe drinking water.
Netflix, along with Pinterest and Instagram, did not respond to requests for comment Sunday. Netflix was able to restore service in a couple of hours. Many more Amazon customers, including the small start-ups that make up the bulk of its customers, did not report any problems, but may have scrambled to make sure their systems were secure.
''We were late at work, playing an online video game that went down, then got a notification from our own system that it was starting to fail,'' said Benjamin Coe, the founder of Attachments.me, a start-up in San Francisco that connects e-mail attachments to online data storage services. ''We had built for redundancy, but our system failed in two areas, making it hard for the third to work.''
Mr. Coe said he stayed up until 4 a.m. fixing the problem. It was, he said, the price of working cheaply with a service that enabled his six-person company to potentially serve millions of customers, who he said would be understanding about brief shutdowns.
''For a consumer product that is free, there is an understanding all around that things can fail occasionally,'' he said. ''If you were flying a plane or something, this would be totally unacceptable.''
The ability to deal with failures has long been a feature of any computing system, but like much else in the cloud, there are no common standards to guide how much protection against disaster is enough. Many start-ups appear not to take advantage of more expensive redundancy features in Amazon, like swapping data between the East Coast and West Coast Amazon facilities.
Bigger companies are moving to the cloud as well, but may now look at Amazon Web Services as a stopgap as much as a primary provider.
''Maybe 15 percent of our customers now keep their data with us in the cloud, but in three years that could be 75 percent,'' said Carl Bass, chief executive of Autodesk, a leading maker of design software. Most of that data is stored on Amazon servers for now, he said, but the company is weighing managing its own cloud, as customers use cheap cloud computing to generate huge numbers of design simulations.
''It'll cost $10 million to get started, and we'll probably still rely on A.W.S. to handle big workloads,'' he said. ''We're going to need tools for infinite computing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Utility workers secured lines in Springfield, Va., on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); STARTUPS (74%); TABLET COMPUTERS (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); WEATHER (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (68%); NETFLIX INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



56 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ELECTION COMMISSION OFFICES
SACKED IN LIBYA BEFORE VOTE
Hundreds of armed protesters attacked the offices of Libya's election commission in two cities, Benghazi and Tobruk, in anger over the way seats in next week's planned election for a constituent assembly were distributed among the country's regions. Page A4
PROTESTS GREET NEW LEADER 
Huge crowds of protesters thronged the streets of Hong Kong hours after President Hu Jintao of China swore in a new chief executive and cabinet for the territory. Protesters championed causes ranging fromgreater democracy in Hong Kong to calls for better state pensions and day care. Page A4
JAPAN RESTARTS REACTOR
A two-month shutdown of Japan's nuclear power plants ended when officials at a western plant reactivated a reactor for the first time since the disaster last year in Fukushima. Page A6
THE HOLOCAUST AND THE POPE
Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust museum and memorial, changed the wording of an exhibit on Pope Pius XII's actions during World War II to soften its criticism of the pope over a subject that has long divided Jews and the Vatican. Page A5
National
SMALL-SCALE FARMERS
CREATING A NEW PROFIT MODEL
The movement toward locally grown food is creating a vibrant new economic laboratory for American agriculture. The result, with its growing army of small-scale local farmers: a reworking of old models about how food gets sold and farms get financed, and who gets dirt under their fingernails doing the work. Page A7
COLLEGE RULE OVERTURNED
A federal judge in Washington has overturned a key component of the federal Department of Education's so-called ''gainful employment'' regulations that were applied on career-training programs and were hotly contested by for-profit colleges, saying that regulation was arbitrary. Page A9
New York
A BRONX SCHOOL PERK GIVES
YOUNG FANS A DREAM JOB
It used to be that most batboy aspirants or their parents knew somebody connected to the Yankees organization. But a selection process little known outside of a couple of high schools in the Bronx made it possible for an avid Yankees fan and his classmate to become batboys this season. Page A10
Business
DOUBTS GREET PROPOSAL
FOR A BANK REGULATOR
European leaders have pledged to establish a new agency aimed at curbing problems afflicting lenders in the euro zone. But analysts are asking whether the new agency would be given the power to rein in risky practices and hold offending banks accountable. Page B1
UBER APP EXPANDS SERVICE
Uber, a start-up based in San Francisco, has won a following among urbanites with its novel twist on calling a car service: with a tap on your phone, its app lets you summon a luxury sedan. Now it is trying to appeal to the less affluent by adding less luxurious cars. Page B3
NBC'S LATINO WEB SITE
NBC News is about to unveil NBCLatino.com, a new Web site dedicated to news and features for a Latino audience. Page B4
Sports
SPRINTERS TO SQUARE OFF
FOR OLYMPIC SPOT
Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh have chosen a runoff to decide who would claim the final spot to represent the United States in the women's 100 meters at the Olympics. The two runners finished in a dead heat for third place in the event in the Olympic trials on June 23. Page D1
YOUNGEST TO WIN TOUR STAGE
Peter Sagan of Slovakia became the youngest winner of a Tour stage since Lance Armstrong took one as a 21-year-old in 1993. Page D6
Arts
LIFE AND LIVE PERFORMANCE
BROUGHT TOGETHER BY DANCE
Maria Hassabi's ''Show,'' part of the River to River Festival, placed live performance in front of the New York Stock Exchange, inviting passers-by to stop and watch. Dance Review. Page C6
Obituaries
HORACIO COPPOLA, 105
Mr. Coppola's black-and-white images of the cafes, side streets and neon-lit boulevards of Buenos Aires in the 1930s, and of ordinary objects like a typewriter and a doll, introduced avant-garde photography to Argentina. Page A12
DORIS SAMS, 85
Ms. Sams pitched a perfect game and set a single-season home run record in the women's professional baseball world of the 1940s and 50s that inspired the movie ''A League of Their Own.'' Page A13
Op-Ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); POWER PLANTS (74%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); JUDGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); SEDANS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); EURO ZONE (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



57 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Celebrate Summer: 10 Ways to Teach the Season

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Ten ideas and related questions for teaching and learning about different aspects of the season of summer. Come post answers to our questions. 

 BODY:
We're closing up shop this week in favor of fireworks and beach books, and we hope you're taking a break, too.
For inspiration, we've got 10 ideas for celebrating, and learning from, summer and its pleasures - and an invitation to students to post answers to the questions we've asked below.
We'll be back with our usual summer content on July 9, but, of course, our Summer Reading Contest will still run this week. (Post your picks here until Friday, July 6.)
1. What makes summer, summer for you? 
Is it grilling burgers? Swimming? Going to camp? Wearing trendy skin-bearing fashions? Playing baseball the way they did in 1864
Whatever it is, tell us by commenting on this post, or use the articles in the 2010 Summer Rituals series as models for longer essays that explore quintessential summer traditions or pleasures. 
2. What's unique about summer in the place you live? 
Do tourists come to watch fireflies blink in unison? Probably not - that seems to happen only in Elkmont, Tenn. - but it's likely that you have special local traditions, like the Fourth of July festivities in this New Jersey town, or a beach, lake or pool where everyone gathers in the way generations of New Yorkers have gone to Coney Island. You probably even have a dangerous summer rite of passage in your area that every child you know has participated in at least once.
Jeff Scher, the artist who created the video at the top of this post writes:
I made "Summer Sketches" so I could keep some summer in my pocket. Come the dead of winter, when I play the film back on my phone, it will warm by sparking memories of bare feet in sand, warm breezes off bays, the smell of suntan lotion and chlorine, the kids turning amphibian for a day, and secret tan lines.
How will you keep summer in pocket? Perhaps by making a video that shows 36 seconds of the season in your area? 
3. What are you reading this summer - either because you want to or because you have to? 
Last month we invited everyone to take to Twitter to post their thoughts with the hashtag #summerreading, and some people are still at it. Dip into the stream for suggestions, or scan the hundreds of titles teachers and students gave us in 2011. 
And don't forget that we're running a Summer Reading Contest through Aug. 17. Tell us what you found most interesting in The Times each week and why, and you might be one of our weekly winners.
4. Hot enough for you? 
In 2010, on a particularly steamy day in July, we created a page called Teaching the Heat Wave: Games, Lessons and More. Use that, or this page, to investigate the science of summer.
You can also search The Times using the words "heat" or "temperature" to find interesting leads for learning. For example, How do birds keep their chicks hydrated? Should air conditioning be a goal for everyone in the world, or is it an unsustainable luxury? Why do we call them "heat waves"? How has temperature affected the wildfires burning in Colorado? What effects did a recent brutal heat wave that crested at 115 degrees have on the town of Hill City, Kansas?
We also invite you to pose your own questions about any aspect of summer that intrigues you, below.
5. What do the police do with illegal fireworks? 
Last year around this time, the New York Police Department reported that it had confiscated more than 5,000 pounds of illegal fireworks, ranging from sparklers to professional pyrotechnics. Would you like to see a video of the mass detonation of the entire stash? Of course you would.
And if you love to blow things up, we have just the summer camp for you. (For those not into pyrotechnics, we invite you to post a description of a summer camp that would be perfect for you. Maybe one like this, for instance?)
6. What are your favorite summer games - Olympic or otherwise? 
Maybe summer for you means sports. If so, you'll want to bookmark a great Times Topics page where you can find everything The Times will publish this summer about the Olympic Games in London. (We'll also post our own pieces on the Olympics later this month, so please check back.) Which Summer Olympic sport is your favorite?
Or maybe you like games you can play in air-conditioned comfort. We love this description of the "paperback game," which, the writer says, is best played with mass-market paperbacks, "the cheesier the better."
For other indoor games, visit our Student Crossword archive or The Times's page to try Sudoku, Ken Ken or Set. If you think you're up to the challenge, you can also play rock-paper-scissors against a computer. 
7. Do you have a summer job? 
According to this blog post, probably not. Some ambitious teenagers, however, seem to have taken the recession as a challenge, including Cameron Stephens of Atlanta who, in order to get a job last summer, just worked until someone noticed.
Another creative idea we've come across is Michael Warshafsky's 60 Days/60 Job Shadows. Mr. Warshafsky is an 18-year-old living in Canada who followed people like a rabbi and a venture capitalist to find out about different jobs, then blogged about it. 
In the meantime, if you have a job, write in and tell us about it here. And if you don't, The Choice blog offers a pre-college summer to-do list.
8. What journeys will you take? 
Are you traveling this summer? Or are you just hanging out, creatively using unstructured time? Where would you go if you could take a fantasy road trip? Should you get off the grid, or is it O.K. to be plugged in? 
Use The Times's annual Best Places to Go list, or the T Summer Travel issue, - or just browse recent articles in the travel section like this one about fjord-hopping in Norway, or this one about a new roller coaster with winged seating at Hersheypark in Pennsylvania.
You could also look at the wonderful reader-submission series "Why We Travel." There you can learn about places to get a fish pedicure,bungee jump or sand surf. 
What photo and story from your own travels, near or far, would you submit?
 9. What summer arts events are you looking forward to?
What summer movies have you already seen, and which are you looking forward to seeing? Which movies were overhyped this season, and which ones deserved a bigger audience? What live music would you like to hear? What television shows or theatrical performances appeal to you?
The Times asked 20 of its critics to share one thing on the season's cultural calendar they most looked forward to. Here are their answers. What would you say if they'd asked you?
10. What's your "song of summer"?
What's your vote for the 2012 song of summer? Maybe this one
As a 1995 article put it, "During the 40 years since rock-and-roll first altered the course of pop music, a soulful summer tradition has emerged. Each year, one song separates itself from the pack, exercising a deep, calling-out power over anyone who falls in love between June and September." In 2007, another article explored a similar idea, debating whether Rihanna's "Umbrella" would beat out Sean Kingston's "Beautiful Girls" to become that summer's song. 
Last year, The Times asked some Brooklyn residents to name their favorite summer song of all time and got these answers. 
We like the concept of the "summer song" so much that we created a whole lesson plan around it in which you're invited to create a playlist of summer songs. What would be on yours?
Teachers: Feel free to bring your students to answer any or all the questions in this post in the comments section below. Remember, though that for privacy reasons we ask that students not post last names.

        
What Interested You Most in The Times This Week?
        
Blogging a Day Devoted to Summer Reading
        
Celebrate Summer: Ideas for Teaching the Season
        
What Are You Looking Forward To This Summer?
        
Kids + Tech = Summer Fun

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (74%); WEATHER (72%); BASEBALL (69%) summer; summer 2012; summer camp; summer school; summer vacation; Weather (Des);; Bulletin Board; Lesson Plans

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



58 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Health Care Fantasies

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: the 25 biggest product flops, Google's bid to control the future, and "no-brainer" businesses anyone can start. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: The Fallout
The Supreme Court upholds the health care mandate. The National Federation of Independent Business is not happy. The Small Business Majority says it's a victory. Here are the winners and losers, here are 11 facts about the Affordable Care Act, and here's what the White House says. Neil Shah explains the economic effects of the ruling. Loren Steffy says the decision ensures that your premiums will go up. But Andy Kroll sums up 10 things you will get with the law's survival. There were plenty of funny reactions on the Web. David Frum says repeal is "a fantasy." A small-business owner says the decision will force him to rethink investment and hiring plans.
The Economy: About That Stimulus
The United States economy is growing at 1.9 percent. A new report says that 76 percent of small-business owners are optimistic about their growth for the remainder of 2012. As Congress considers delaying automatic budget cuts, Alan Blinder says that stimulus is nota dirty word. Shaun Connell says three myths about the national debt won't die. A new paper from a Harvard professor looks at the "unprecedented upsurge" (pdf) of oil production capacity and what it means for the world. A 1969 meteorite yields a new mineral. Some believe that America will halve its reliance on Middle East oil by the end of this decade and could end it completely by 2035. But Kevin Bullis wonders if all this new oil production will cause oil prices - and energy innovation - to collapse. Perhaps this combination could solve our energy problems? A professor recommends waiting a week or two before buying gasoline. America's biggest advantage over the rest of the world? Demographics.
The Data: Chemical Demand
New home sales rose at their fastest annual pace in two years. But weak demand for chemicals signals slower growth. Consumer confidence continues to decline (as does female interest in unemployed men). Durable goods orders are up but Doug Short uses four metrics to show that "orders remain far below their respective peaks near the turn of the century and earlier." The slow recovery continues to create state budget shortfalls.
Your People: Corporate Refugees
Even with high unemployment, some small businesses struggle to fill positions. Boeing and Airbus fight for aerospace engineers. One new study finds that work-life balance has improved for employees while another reveals surprises about traditional office life, including some creative excuses for not showing up at the office. (It's Elvis' birthday?). A 16-year-old chief executive just wants to stay in school. A video game company hires an economist to explore virtual worlds. Here are stories of five Gen-Y entrepreneurs who are corporate refugees.
Management: Listen Up
Louis C.K. sells tickets straight to his fans. These are the 25 biggest product flops of all time. Glori Surban offers seven rules of listening. An associate professor at Wharton believes quiet leaders make better leaders. Here are a few small office storage ideas. Here's how to trick an umpire. The Manufacturing Leadership Council lists its critical issues. Jim Smith suggests five steps to scale your business. Nicole Fende suggests documenting your business processes: "Imagine how many times you would have to do this process or task over the next 12 months. Now project that over all the years you will be running your business." Summer may be the time for vacations, but small-business owners can't afford to be away for long.
Google: Controlling the Future
Here are four things to know from last week's Google conference, where the big news was another tablet announcement. Fred Vogelstein says it's not a media gadget, "it's Google's bid to control the future." The mobile industry could lose $40 billion as a result. Google executives promise that their redesigned ads will increase click-through rates 100 percent. They also announced a redesigned app to help businesses manage mobile work forces. And everyone's excited about Internet glasses. Jeff Bullas explains why you shouldn't ignore Google Plus. Maybe Google can help these people fly?
Marketing: Digital Power Brokers
Rieva Lesonsky has learned seven business lessons from Lady Gaga and Madonna, including "Image matters": "Neither performer caught on with fans until they found their image. ... Takeaway: in today's visual society (Instagram, Pinterest) your image has to stick in customers' minds." Another lesson: don't pose for wedding pictures on a rickety dock. Scott Dinsmore says you can network with anyone: "Pay ridiculous attention. It's nearly impossible to genuinely offer help if you don't pay attention - I mean real attention, not just to what business they started or what sport they like!" Or you may want to pay attention to this new app. The old and the less educated watch the most TV. Verizon has a new video about bartering for your small business. Megan Leap suggests 10 ways to improve your social media marketing. Facebookchanges its e-mail addresses. These people are the Internet's digital power brokers. Girls use social media more than boys. This concerned father doesn't need social media to get his message across.
Start-Up: High Tech Parking
Marty Nemko suggests "no-brainer businesses" anyone can start. A Nashville start-up claims to introduce the first completely new business computing platform in 25 years. Carnegie Mellon invests in a start-up that fights blindness in children. Richard Demb suggests seven reasons why today is the best day to start your sustainable business. A Baltimore start-up takes parking high tech. Eric Ries plans a lean start-up conference in San Francisco.
Around the Country: Stuck in California
A California city files for bankruptcy, and a California teenager becomes stuck in a vending machine. The Supreme Court splits on Arizona's immigration law, and small businesses fret about boycotts. Manufacturing activity in Texas expands, but Chicago's economic activity index slips and manufacturing in the Kansas City region (pdf) slows. New York City is getting a technology upgrade while a few of its sneaky sneaker thieves have found a way to succeed. If you live on the East Coast, it might be time to sell your boardwalk business. Cory Annis shares a secret for healthful eating for business travelers. The Detroit Chamber of Commerce introduces small businesses to Boeing. These are America's 10 richest counties. A DailyCandy contest gives entrepreneurs a boost. The MillerCoors urban entrepreneurs series introduces its 13th season.
Around the World: Russian Roulette
Britain's economy is officially in recession and the Olympics are already over budget. So why not play a round of Russian roulette with eggs? Bill Clinton crashes an Irish wedding. Chinese female entrepreneurs are finding India attractive. An unidentified object is discovered at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. Gunmen attack Microsoft headquarters in Athens. A Dutch stroller manufacturer prints instructions on its packaging to encourage customers to turn the boxes into something useful.
Technology: Girls Who Code
Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry wonders what's taking so long with mobile payments. Jonathan Feldman believes that Apple is planning its own obsolescence. Microsoft buys Yammer and announces that Windows Phone 8 will ship with a fresh version of Office. A group of tech companies announce an initiative called "girls who code." Here are some quick tips for storing business photos. The Radio Frequency ID market is expected to grow.
Tweets of the Week
@chrisbrogan: When you realize that every little thing is frustrating you, it's probably you. Retreat. Retrench. Carry on.
@Lead Today: Just because the idea is yours doesn't mean it's automatically the best.
@AlfredEdmondJr: Don't get so caught up in your victories that you forget to prepare for the challenges to come. Success is a test that is easy to fail.
The Week's Bests
Lars Lofgren suggests creating a "viral loop" for growth: "A viral loop means that if you start with 10 customers, they'll bring more than 10 other customers to you. Each batch of new customers gets larger and larger as you go viral. ... For it to work, your virality needs to be a fundamental part of your product. ... Skype has an amazing viral loop that's built into the fabric of its product. Once you've started to use the product, you'll encourage friends and family to join you so everyone can easily keep in touch. As they start Skyping with you, they'll encourage people in their network to also use it. Before long, Skype gets bought by Microsoft for $8.56 billion."
Danielle LaPorte gives a few reasons to take some time off this summer: "Culturally - especially for entrepreneurs - we tend to stop only when we're too beat to take another step. ... You don't have to be depleted to warrant stopping."
This Week's Question: Will your company buy Google's new tablet?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: 10 Billion Video Ads
        
This Week in Small Business: Working Without Pay
        
This Week in Small Business: Change Your Password
        
This Week in Small Business: Blame the S.B.A.
        
This Week in Small Business: It's Small Business Week!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); MINING OUTPUT (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); GENERATION Y (69%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); DURABLE GOODS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BUDGET CUTS (52%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (50%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Dashboard

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (51%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (84%) Google Inc

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



59 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: The Tricky Business of Counting Rain

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: A decline in water measurement stations poses challenges for meteorologists and climatologists worldwide. 

 BODY:
The number of water-monitoring stations around the world has declined steadily over the last quarter-century, and economic doldrums and a lack of resolve on the policy-making front could cause the trend to hold for years to come, researchers warn. This could deprive scientists and practitioners of data essential to immediate and long-term water resource management decisions, many argue.
From 1989 to 2006, the number of stations across Europe fell by nearly half, from 10,000 to less than 6,000, according to a study published this month in the Journal of Hydrometeorology. (Half of the 6,000 are in Germany.) 
A far more precipitous decline occurred in South America, where the numbers dropped from nearly 4,300 to 400. The United States has witnessed one of the mildest contractions, while large swaths of Africa and Asia remain without a single gauge.
"If hydrological networks are thinning out spatially, then the ability to effectively manage water resources locally" is also compromised, said Wolfgang Grabs, chief of the Hydrological Forecasting and Water Resources Division at the World Meteorological Organization.

Most immediately, municipalities are losing some of the precipitation and runoff data used for storm water management, which is regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency. The agricultural sector also depends on these data, as do hydroelectric power stations, fish and wildlife management personnel and municipal reservoir operators, among many others.
Further afield, the Agriculture Department, which pays tens to hundreds of millions of dollars each year in fraudulent insurance claims, uses precipitation data to corroborate weather-related losses reported by farmers. And epidemiologists use water flow data to uncover mosquito breeding grounds, as they did in 2003 in Fort Collins, Colo., then the epicenter of the West Nile virus outbreaks.
Consistent long-term records of 30 years or more are also "really critical for looking at trends," said Michael Strobel, director of the U.S.D.A.'s National Water and Climate Center. "We need to know not only what's happening today, but what happened before."
Dr. Grabs of the World Meteorological Organization describes such records as "climate memory," something that is assuming particular importance as rising levels of greenhouse gases and rapid changes in land cover alter regional and global water cycles.
The root cause of the decline in monitoring is a familiar refrain in the scientific world these days: "Everybody wants data but no one wants to invest in getting the data," said Karen Frenken, a senior water resources management officer at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
Certain processes, including routine maintenance, cannot be automated at these stations, which are often located in remote or rugged terrain. That makes labor a significant expense.
Concern over data availability was also raised at this year's Executive Council meeting for the World Meteorological Organization in Geneva, and it will be discussed at an upcoming session of the United Nations General Assembly. But otherwise it is "not really in the mainstream policy discussion," Dr. Grabs said. Without widespread and concerted government support, scientists are beginning to hunt for alternatives.
Nolan Doesken, a state climatologist at Colorado State, manages the Community Collaborative Rain, Hail and Snow Network, or CoCoRaHS, a collective of 15,000 volunteers in all 50 states and Canada that provides up to 10,000 precipitation measurements a day. The information is compiled and distributed freely.
In Fort Collins, Colo., where he is based, the network has established one volunteer monitor for each square mile. By contrast, NOAA's recently completed United States Climate Reference Network has just 114 climate stations, albeit quite sophisticated ones, across the three million square miles of the continental United States.
Despite the potential for dense networks of grass-roots monitoring, the measurements that these volunteers can perform are relatively basic and provide only a crutch, being limited to geographies where people choose to live. Quality control is an ongoing challenge, as is attrition: CoCoRaHS must recruit an average of 10 volunteers a day to counter its losses. This raises questions about the data continuity that is so critical to understanding long-term trends.
Tom Peterson, a principal scientist at NOAA's National Climatic Data Center, focuses on another workaround: he retroactively integrates data from disparate measuring sites, creating a "network of networks," in Mr. Doesken's words. This can sharpen the overall picture of precipitation around the world despite a decline in absolute numbers of stations.
Companies like Earth Networks are also building a private market for weather data, installing stations and providing information to a long list of partners that includes federal agencies.
Unfortunately, private data are proprietary; and even national or institutional data, which Dr. Peterson relies on, are sometimes withheld, particularly along transboundary river basins.
In some ways, Mr. Doesken said, the decline in monitoring stations is a conscious technological bargain made in recent decades: "You can pay for a whole lot of surface rain gauges for a long time for the cost of a new satellite," he said, "but we want satellites, too."
Although vitally important, weather satellites require "ground-truthing," or the calibration of remote readings with physical measurements. Without this, scientists essentially have "a fancy colored image to look at, but no idea" of what it represents, said Harald Kunstmann, head of the Regional Climate Systems Department at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in Germany and a co-author of the recent article in the Journal of Hydrometeorology.
Mr. Doesken is intimately familiar with this shortcoming. When huge storms and flooding struck Fort Collins in July 1997, remote technologies measured rainfall of three to four inches, whereas in fact more than 14 inches of rain deluged some sections of the city.
"Without good ground data, you don't know how wrong you are," he said.
Scientists are meanwhile exploring whether the expansive global mesh of cellphone signals could be used to measure precipitation data. Mobile phones emit and receive microwave signals, and the air through which they travel attenuates the signal in discernible ways. 
In attempts to develop an indirect measure of precipitation, teams of scientists in Israel, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and Germany are trying to exploit differences in these signal patterns created by changes in water content of the air.
As of 2011, there were 5.9 billion mobile phone subscriptions worldwide, and an overall penetration rate of 79 percent in developing countries. "Even across Africa, in the smaller villages, they're all connected by mobile phones," Dr. Kunstmann said.
Cellphone companies must be persuaded to work with the scientists on this initiative, and Dr. Kunstmann said that was no easy task. "It's a long process," he said.
In the meantime, the number of measuring stations continues to decline, with far-reaching consequences for economies, livelihoods and "not least, saving of lives by mitigating disasters," Dr. Grabs warned.

        
On Our Radar: Californians Mobilize for Nuclear Safety
        
Oklahoma Sets Water Conservation Goal
        
On Our Radar: Cuts in the Firefighting Budget
        
'Hidden' Water: Where Does It All Go?
        
On Our Radar: An Energy Challenge for Gamers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (93%); METEOROLOGY (93%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLLUTION MONITORING (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); TRENDS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (87%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); WEATHER (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); WEST NILE VIRUS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); WILDLIFE (65%); POWER PLANTS (65%); VIRUSES (63%); INSURANCE FRAUD (50%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%) climate science; monitoring stations; precipitation; rain; Water; Floods; Rain; Weather; Agriculture Department; Environmental Protection Agency; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; General Assembly (UN); Karlsruhe Institute of Technology; National Climatic Data Center; World Meteorological Organization; climate change; Research/Studies; Science; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD METEOROLOGICAL ORGANIZATION (91%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (84%) Agriculture Department; Environmental Protection Agency; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations; General Assembly (UN); Karlsruhe Institute of Technology; National Climatic Data Center; World Meteorological Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



60 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Don't Punish Yourself Every Time You Spend

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS


HIGHLIGHT: Some people experience more pain when they should when it comes time to make a purchase. Carl Richards explains how to conquer it. 

 BODY:
My daughter made the cross-country team, and she needed new running shoes. Have you shopped for new trail-running shoes recently? They're so expensive that it hurt! I was telling someone I know about the experience and said I hoped buying something like shoes never stopped being painful, because I never want to get casual about spending that kind of money.
She surprised me by asking this: What good does it do for it to be painful? How did that help?
That's a really good question. I was going to buy the shoes for my daughter anyway. I'm excited she is running cross country. In fact, that is exactly the sort of thing our family wants to spend money on, and it fits in our budget. So why make it painful?
Turns out there is some research on this connection between spending and pain. Scott Rick, a University of Michigan marketing professor, and other researchers did a study to measure how people felt about their buying decisions. Along the way, they discovered something interesting, as a Kiplinger writer noted:
Spendthrifts don't feel enough pain for their own good, so they overspend, carry more debt and feel guilty later. Tightwads, however, experience too much pain, which leads to feelings of regret for not having spent enough. Rick says it's worse to be a spendthrift because of the financial costs, but neither extreme is as good as the middle group, labeled unconflicted. "Spendthrifts are bad off financially and psychologically," he says. "Tightwads have big bank accounts, but we find that they're less happy than the unconflicted group."
George Lowenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University, has also looked closely at the psychological connection of pain and money:
People experience what my research collaborators and I call a 'pain of paying' when they pay for purchases, and this pain is more intense with cash than with cards. Paying with cards is more carefree.
So as Lowestein notes, paying cash is a physical thing that results in having less cash in your wallet. You can see it happen, and you know that you immediately have less money. Knowing you'll have less money then makes you less likely to spend because you want to avoid the pain.
When you pay with a credit card, however, your action is disconnected from spending the money. You end up with the gratification of getting what you want immediately, but the pain of paying for it is delayed several weeks until the bill arrives.
It's hard not to wonder if this focus on pain has contributed to our less-than-healthy relationship with money. How can it be good for my children to hear me talk about both the car repair bill and their summer camp bill being painful?
What if we focus instead on making sure the way we use our money is aligned with what we say is important to us? In other words, shouldn't we be happy about spending money on things we value and are within our budget?
In fact, I believe it's this kind of aligned spending that makes it possible to spend our way to happiness. So instead of looking for pain, let's look for alignment. Next time you reach for the debit card, or cash (if you like pain), ask yourself this:

        
Does this fit in my budget? In other words, can I afford this?
        
Is this something I value?
If the answer to both is yes, then you should be able to put a stop to most of the pain and actually enjoy the purchase. This is one way we really can spend our way to happiness.

        
Adding Up the Costs of Summer Break
        
The Case for Spending a Little More Sometimes
        
Half of Americans Still Lack 3-Month Emergency Fund
        
Average Household Feeling Less Distressed, Analysis Finds
        
The Right Way to Try to Buy Happiness

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RUNNING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%) Budgeting; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



61 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Waning

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Unlike their counterparts in the millennial generation who showed high levels of enthusiasm for Barack Obama at this point in 2008, the nation's first-time voters in 2012 are less enthusiastic about him, Susan Saulny reports. The new crop of youths have come of voting age with views shaped largely by the recession, and they are significantly more likely to identify as conservative and cite a growing lack of faith in government in general.

        
Mitt Romney and his family have gathered in Wolfeboro, N.H., for their annual vacation, but so have the reporters and photographers who descended en masse, Ashley Parker writes. The town that bills itself as "the oldest summer resort in America" is now wondering just what a Romney presidency would mean for their sleepy and scenic way of life.
Happenings in Washington

        
Congress is on break until July 9 and President Obama is on vacation at Camp David.

        
The Weekend Word: Regrouping
        
The Early Word: Constitutional
        
The Early Word: Decision Time
        
The Early Word: Inquiries
        
The Early Word: Split

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CAUCUSES (88%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESORTS (69%) The Early Word; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Senate; New Hampshire; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



62 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Micron to Acquire Elpida Memory in Deal Valued at $2.5 Billion

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Micron Technology has agreed to buy Elpida Memory, which filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, for $754 million in cash and $1.76 billion in installments to cover debt. 

 BODY:
Micron Technology has agreed to buy Elpida Memory for $2.5 billion in a bid to bolster its manufacturing capacity.
Under the deal, Micron Technology, will buy the bankrupt Japanese chip maker for 60 billion yen ($754 million) in cash. Micron will then pay 140 billion yen in upcoming annual installments to cover Elpida's debt. 
Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, also announced on Monday that it was buying a 24 percent stake in the Rexchip Electronics Corporation from the Powerchip Technology Corporation for about $334 million. Since Elpida owns a 65 percent stake in Rexchip, Micron will own 89 percent of that company once both deals close. 
 Elpida, which makes dynamic random-access memory chips used in personal computers and other products, filed for bankruptcy earlier this year amid mounting debt and falling chip prices. Although some analysts questioned Micron's appetite for all of Elpida, the deal will allow Micron to expand its manufacturing capacity at a relatively low price. 
Elpida owns a large chip fabrication factory in Hiroshima, Japan, while Rexchip has one in Taiwan along with a testing facility in Akita, Japan. According to a Micron news release, the deals should increase manufacturing capacity by 50 percent. 
"We get significantly inexpensive or less costly assets," Ronald C. Foster, Micron's chief financial officer, said in a conference call on Monday morning. "It's a very economic solution for us." 
By expanding capacity, Micron will also be able to better adjust to the fluctuations of the chip industry, a business where pricing can sharply fall or rise based on supply. When pricing is strong, Micron will be able to easily ramp up production in Elpida's fabrication facilities. While Elpida is best known for the types of chips used in PCs, Micron said it will have the flexibility to produce a variety.
The cross-border deal is not expected to close until the first half of 2013 and is subject to regulatory approvals. According to Micron chief executive Mark Durcan, once it closes, the deal is expected to bolster cash flow within the first 12 months.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); PLANT CAPACITY (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Elipda Memory; Elpida; Micron; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (92%); ELPIDA MEMORY INC (90%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (72%) IDAHO, USA (90%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



63 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: GE Capital Sells Property Lending Unit for $2.51 Billion

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: EverBank Financial Corporation, a bank based in Florida that went public last month, has agreed to acquire Business Property Lending, a unit of GE Capital, for $2.51 billion in cash. 

 BODY:
The EverBank Financial Corporation, a bank based in Jacksonville, Fla., that went public last month, said on Monday that it had agreed to acquire Business Property Lending, a unit of GE Capital, for $2.51 billion in cash. 
Since the financial crisis, General Electric has been steadily streamlining GE Capital, its huge financial arm, shrinking its real estate loan portfolio in particular. 
Business Property is a commercial real estate lender for properties owned or leased by small and midsize businesses. The acquisition includes about $2.44 billion of performing commercial loans, the origination and servicing platforms, and servicing rights on $3.1 billion of loans securitized by GE Capital. Business Property employs 108 people.
"Today's announcement represents a compelling strategic expansion into business property lending in key metropolitan areas where EverBank currently has significant lending, leasing and deposit customers," Robert Clements, chief executive of EverBank, said in a statement. "We believe this fully integrated, high quality franchise will accelerate EverBank's strategic growth plans and will further enhance and diversify our robust, nationwide asset generation capabilities."
Backed by the private equity firms Sageview Partners, TPG Capital and New Mountain Partners, EverBank went public on May 2 at $10 a share. On Friday, its shares closed at $10.87. 
EverBank, which started in 1994, is a savings and loan company. It acquired the banking operations of the failed Bank of Florida in a deal brokered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in 2010. 
The company offers a range of lending, banking and investing products. In April, EverBank acquired the warehouse finance business of MetLife. 
Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch and the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell advised EverBank on the GE Capital deal. Goldman Sachs also acted as an adviser to EverBank, and Gateway Asset Management provided loan diligence. Deutsche Bank and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges advised General Electric. 

        
Revenue Drops at GE Capital
        
Once a Millstone, GE Capital Is Now a Profit Center

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); SECURITIZATION (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%) EverBank Financial; GE Capital; General Electric; Banking and Financial Institutions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Real Estate (Commercial); EverBank Financial Corporation; GE Capital Corp; EverBank Financial Corporation|EVER|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Real Estate

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%); EVERBANK FINANCIAL CORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (55%); TPG CAPITAL LP (55%); NEW MOUNTAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%); BANK OF FLORIDA CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EverBank Financial Corporation; GE Capital Corp

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%); EVER (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%) EverBank Financial Corporation; EVER; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



64 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: As Attitudes Shift on P.T.S.D, Media Slow to Remove Stigma

BYLINE: MIKE HAYNIE


HIGHLIGHT: Some in the media continue to perpetuate a stigma linking military service to mental illness and violence, a veteran of the Air Force argues. 

 BODY:
In 1999, President Bill Clinton convened the first White House Summit on Mental Health. The aim of the conference and the public campaign that followed was, in part, to educate the media on the moral and ethical imperative related to dispelling the stigma associated with mental illness. In a radio address to announce the conference, Mr. Clinton said, "Mental illness is nothing to be ashamed of, but stigma and bias shame us all."
In recent years, the Department of Defense has made unprecedented progress toward eliminating the stigma associated with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health issues affecting service members. This cultural shift within the military is a sea change, as more and more of our service members are seeking and receiving the support they need and deserve from a grateful nation. In the face of that progress, it's unfortunate that some in the media continue to perpetuate a stigma linking military service to mental illness and violence.
This is seen in news articles throughout the country, with some referring to veterans as "ticking time bombs." By describing vets as "time bombs" who are highly trained in "guerrilla warfare," media outlets prove far too careless with regard to providing societal context for isolated acts of violence committed by people who sometimes happen to be veterans.
Reporting has been biased toward paper-selling sensationalism that perpetuates the stigma of a dangerous combat veteran akin to Rambo, invading our neighborhoods and homes. Consider the media coverage of the case of Itzcoatl Ocampo, who has been charged with the murders of several homeless men in California. Some news outlets went as far as to identify him as a former Marine before even mentioning his name. Others were sure to immediately identify him as an Iraq war veteran, and then described how the victims were tracked in a meticulous manner, blatantly attempting to portray Mr. Ocampo as if he believed he was still on mission. Mr. Ocampo has even been called an "Iraq war veteran" and a "monster" in the same paragraph, connecting the two.
If the charges against Mr. Ocampo are proved true, it's very likely he is a monster and a terrible threat - no different from a serial killer who is not a veteran. However, the unfortunate reality is that the message that far too many Americans take away from stories crafted in this way is a stigma that paints all veterans with the same brush, and the color of the paint is disturbing and dangerous.
Most unfortunate, and misleading, are the links these reporters imply between military service, mental health and an increased propensity for extreme violence. In 2008, The New York Times published a series of articles focused on "veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan who have committed killings, or been charged with them, after coming home." The Times found "121 cases in which veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan committed a killing, or were charged with one, after their return from war." At the time those articles were published, the population of post-9/11 veterans was about 750,000, an offender rate of 16 homicides per 100,000 veterans.
Data from the Department of Justice indicates that the homicide offender rate in the civilian population during that same period varied between 25 and 28 homicides per 100,000 young American males - implying that veterans might actually be less likely than their non-veteran, age-group peers to commit a violent homicide.
Also not supported by facts is the link often implied by the media between combat stress and crime in general. A recent study published in the British Medical Journal indicates that veterans with combat trauma are no more likely than other people to end up in prison. Further, data from state and federal prisons highlights that the number of incarcerated veterans has at worst remained unchanged, and in many states declined, throughout the past decade of war.
For better or worse, the media will play a large and important role in shaping the cultural narrative that defines this generation of veterans. Unfortunately, that narrative has been a story of extremes to date. At one extreme, it's the story of the veteran as the superhero - unstoppable and iconic. At the other extreme, it's a narrative that frames the veteran as "broken," whose life course will be defined by post-traumatic stress, domestic violence, suicide, unemployment and homelessness. The result is a caricature of the American veteran as someone who exclusively represents one of these extremes.
The reality is 99 percent of veterans do not represent either extreme. Instead we live our lives in the middle of this continuum. We are teachers, plumbers, doctors, pilots and bus drivers. We're your neighbors. On behalf of this 99 percent, I appeal to the media to keep that in mind while shaping the public narrative that the entire community of veterans will ultimately inherit.

        
Making Commanders Accountable for Soldiers' Suicides
        
New Study Gives Scope and Cost of Combat-Related Conditions Among Veterans
        
Veterans, Like Active Duty Troops, Are Hesitant to Seek Mental Health Care
        
The Financial Costs of War, Beyond the Battlefield
        
Supreme Court Rejects Case of Former Sailor With Stress Disorder

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (95%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); VETERANS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MURDER (86%); HOMICIDE (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); AIR FORCES (75%); HOMELESSNESS (73%) homicide; journalism; mental health; murder; news media; Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder; PTSD; Veterans; Ocampo, Itzcoatl; Mental Health and Disorders; Murders and Attempted Murders; News and News Media; United States Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department; New York Times; Syracuse University; Afghanistan; Iraq; United States; health

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (84%); US AIR FORCE (59%) Defense Department; New York Times; Syracuse University

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%) Ocampo, Itzcoatl

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%) Afghanistan; Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



65 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Lies About Health Care

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: What Paul Ryan, Rush Limbaugh and Mitch McConnell are saying about the Affordable Care Act. 

 BODY:
Now that some of the shock is fading among conservatives that Chief Justice John Roberts would betray their cause, and among liberals that he would take up theirs, politicians are starting to talk about how to play health care in the campaign.
The big push from the right will be to elect Republicans so they can repeal President Obama's insurance reform, and Doug Holtz Eakin, an economist who worked for Senator John McCain in 2008, had some advice on that score. He said that the repeal message should be "framed very carefully" - and focused on how the law affects jobs and the economy.

It's good advice, except that "framed very carefully" is not exactly the G.O.P. way of doing business. It's more like "wildly out of control."
Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee and the Republican guru on all things related to the economy, said on ABC's "This Week" that the reform law should be repealed as a theological matter.
"We disagree with the notion that our rights come from government, that the government can now grant us and define our rights," he said. "Those are ours, they come from nature and God, according to the Declaration of Independence - a huge difference in philosophy."
That is huge. I didn't recall any references to the deity when the health law was passed. The Farmer's Almanac says there was some light drizzle in Washington that day, March 23, 2010, so not even any thunderclaps from the heavens.
The court gave Republicans one talking point by ruling that the "mandate" was actually a tax. But they might want to be a bit more careful about using that point than Rush Limbaugh, who has been saying that it is "the largest tax increase in the history of the world."
Even allowing some leeway for poetic license, that's not even remotely true. For proof, see this chart on Ezra Klein's Wonkblog. As he said, "It's not even the biggest tax hike in the past 60 years. Or 50 years. Or 30 years. Or 20 years."
It's also not true, as claimed by Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate Minority Leader, that the law will cut $500 billion from Medicare.
And the Republicans might want to come up with some better spin about their alternative to "Obamacare" than the one Mr. McConnell offered on Fox News Sunday - that the 30 million uninsured Americans that are given access to insurance under Mr. Obama's plan "are not the issue."
I understand that polling on both sides of the political divide shows that voters don't care much about poverty or poor people, but that sure sounds cynical.

        
Opinion Report: Health Care
        
Romney's Call to Arms
        
Roberts Hits the Reset Button
        
Health Care Confusion
        
The Thurmond Rule

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); INSURANCE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TAX INCREASES (68%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%); RELIGION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (51%) health care reform; Mitch McConnell; Paul Ryan; Rush Limbaugh; Limbaugh, Rush; McConnell, Mitch; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (90%); JOHN ROBERTS (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Limbaugh, Rush; McConnell, Mitch; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



66 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Record Civil Fine in Kalamazoo Spill

BYLINE: ELISABETH ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Aside from other enforcement actions, the federal pipeline safety agency wants Enbridge to pay a $3.7 million fine. 

 BODY:
The federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration said Monday that it would seek to impose a $3.7 million fine -- a record civil penalty -- on the pipeline operator Enbridge over an oil spill in the Kalamazoo River in Michigan two years ago. 
The spill from the pipeline, which involved at least 800,000 gallons of a form of crude called diluted bitumen, has proved difficult to clean up, and parts of the river remain closed. The pipeline agency, part of the Department of Transportation, found that the company had violated many federal regulations, including failing to follow proper management procedures and using operators without the proper qualifications.
For example, despite alarms indicating a problem with the pipeline, Enbridge employees tried several times to restart the flow, with more oil spilled as a result. "We will hold pipeline operators accountable if they do not follow proper safety procedures to protect the environment and local communities," the federal transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, said. 
Enbridge now has 30 days to indicate whether it will accept the judgment. The company said in a statement on Monday that it had cooperated fully with United States investigators and was reviewing the proposed penalty in preparation for a response. It said it would not comment further "until that analysis is complete."
A larger question raised by the spill is whether diluted bitumen - a combination of a gritty oil-containing paste and diluting liquids - is more hazardous to transport than conventional crude and thus requires the adoption of special precautions and regulations. The agency has commissioned the National Academy of Sciences to study that question.

The answer is important because oil from Canada's oil sands region is usually transported in that form. Like 6B, the pipeline involved in the July 2010 spill in Michigan, a a number of pipelines carry "dil-bit" from Canada to the United States, and the United States will have to decide whether to welcome more. 
Keystone XL, a gargantuan pipeline project that was put partly on hold by the Obama administration this year, would carry dil-bit from Canada southward through the heart of the county and on to the gulf coast and is likely to come up for review again after the presidential election. 

        
Study Warns of Economic Damage in a Keystone Pipeline Spill
        
On Our Radar: Will the Keystone Delay Benefit Enbridge?
        
Report Finds Pipeline Oversight Wanting
        
Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands
        
Again, Transcanada Seeks Keystone Permit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (94%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL SANDS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%) bitumen; enbridge; fines and penalties; Keystone XL pipeline; Oil Sands; Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration; pipeline safety; pipeline spill; LaHood, Ray; Fines (Penalties); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Transportation; Enbridge Inc; National Academy of Sciences; Canada; Kalamazoo River (Mich); Michigan; Business; Oil; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%) Enbridge Inc; National Academy of Sciences; Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) LaHood, Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Canada; Kalamazoo River (Mich); Michigan

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



67 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2012

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Young Voices Challenge Results of Presidential Election

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON and KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY


HIGHLIGHT: On Mexico City's streets and on Twitter, a new student movement, known as #YoSoy132, expressed frustration that the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, was back in power. 

 BODY:
Marcha #YoSoy132 por Campos Eliseos http://t.co/SeHh6DlI
 - Alejandro Gonzlez M (@agonzalmorg)2 Jul 12
Disappointed by the outcome of the presidential election in Mexico, members of the country's new student movement took to Twitter, then to the streets of Mexico City on Monday afternoon to express their frustration that the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, was back in power. 
They claimed that the election was a fraud and demanded that the authorities investigate possible irregularities in some of the polling stations.
As my colleague, Randal C. Archibold reports, Mexico's president-elect, Enrique Pea Nieto, won 38 percent to 39 percent of the vote on Sunday. He began the transition to power on Monday, promising to focus on defeating organized crime, improving the economy and creating "a democratic presidency that governs for all Mexicans."
"The presidency that I want to enact and contribute to is modern, open to criticism, ready to listen and to work with all forms of political expression," Mr. Pea Nieto said at a news conference.
But Mr. Pea Nieto faces a struggle in winning over members of the student movement, known as #YoSoy132, or "I am 132." 
Before the rally was announced on Facebook, Twitter and other Web sites, the group released a video on YouTube arguing its case that the election should not stand. 
#RT #YOSoy132 #HoyVotoPorAMLO #AMLOVE #AMLO #ipn #unam #uam #Melapelasnieto # http://t.co/NehhdLFg
 - Lupita Rodea (@lupit_aaa)2 Jul 12
#Mexico: Students gathering at the Monument to the Revolution just sent out the following communiqu: https://t.co/3i2rqD1b! #YoSoy132
 - Erik de la Reguera (@erikdelareguera)2 Jul 12
The movement, which began in May, has been growing steadily, as my colleague, Damien Cave has reported. It started after Mr. Pea Nieto made a campaign appearance at Ibero American University, and students shouted him down. 
When the campus protest was inaccurately described as being orchestrated by outside agitators, students responded with an online video that went viral, showing 131 students. Many displayed their student IDs, and all explained why they, not outsiders, felt the need to protest. 
The video has surpassed 1.1 million views and helped prompt protests and huge rallies across the country, calling on voters to oppose the return of the PRI, which ruled Mexico for decades before it was ousted from power in 2000. The movement, which is also critical of the major television networks, helped organize a presidential debate that Mr. Pea Nieto did not attend.
It remains unclear what role the movement may have played in the election. 
Despite the large and growing protests and robust online conversation about the presidential election, Mr. Pea Nieto won. His margin of victory was not as big as most polls projected. And preliminary returns, as my colleague Mr. Archibold points out, show that the PRI-led coalition in Congress did not appear to have won an outright victory.
"They definitely made an impact in getting visibility for some of the issues that the young people were talking about," said Andrs Monroy-Hernndez, a fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society who has been following the movement. "My impression is that a lot of young people who were not thinking about the election got excited and properly decided to go out and vote." 
He noted, however, that social media, while effective, cannot fight the "huge machinery of the television networks and the practices of the PRI."
The Nieman Journalism Lab published a post on how online journalism had "shaken up political coverage in Mexico."
Mr. Monroy-Hernndez and others noted how members of the movement had used social media and online efforts to effectively crowdsource complaints about corruption and irregularities at the polls on Sunday. At one point, a Web site that the group was using came under an attack by hackers and was inaccessible for a while.
@LaSexyTuitera A ver si te gusta esta PIC del conteo de votos !! Deveras que es un fraude !!! http://t.co/i0OOSTDH
 - Raul F. Garcia Mtz. (@raulfgarciamtz)2 Jul 12
At the protest Monday afternoon, the crowd sped through the streets, with random students sporadically taking the lead to start a chant: "Out, Pea," "one should study, he who doesn't study ends up like Pea," and "if there is imposition, there will be revolution."
Fuera Pea, fuera Pea! #YoSoy132 http://t.co/L5j8C0rI
 - Daniela Garduo (@DanielaNitza)2 Jul 12
The university students said they did not want Mr. Pea Nieto to be president. They explained that the return of the PRI, which ruled Mexico for 71 years uninterruptedly and is perceived to be the godfather of rampant corruption and elitism in the country, was detrimental to democracy.
They also complained about the dominance of the two giant, privately owned media companies. 
"They want to impose something as if it were an absolute truth," said Jessica Hernandez, 20, raising her voice above the loud chants. Members of the #YoSoy132 movement believe that one of the country's largest media conglomerates, Televisa, favored Mr. Pea Nieto by giving him more and better coverage than the other candidates.
"Our brains are being washed," said Ms. Hernandez, who said it was suspect that El Universal, one of the country's leading newspapers, had announced Mr. Pea Nieto's victory on its front page before the electoral authorities had made the results public.
The protesters said it would not be their last demonstration. 
One message did unify the crowd on Monday: Mr. Pea Nieto is not a welcome choice.
"I don't want Pea as president," said Jessica Sanchez, 20, as she pounded her fists in the air in unison with the crowd. 
@beltrandelriomx Los #YoSoy132 hoy en Polanco http://t.co/1zsEoPc3
 - Cecilia Soto (@ceciliasotog)2 Jul 12

        
In Protests and Online, a Youth Movement Seeks to Sway Mexico's Election
        
Cat-and-Mole Games on the Mexican Border
        
A Spanish Class Says Mexican Pledge, and Some Respond 'No Me Gusta'
        
Some Experts Question Iran's Role in Bungled Plot
        
Addressing Some Misperceptions About Mexican Immigration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); RIOTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); INTERNET VIDEO (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%) #yosoy132; Mexico; Mexico Presidential Election; PRI; Pena Nieto, Enrique; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Social Networking (Internet); Twitter; YouTube.com; Mexico City (Mexico); americas; News; world

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter; YouTube.com

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (93%) Pena Nieto, Enrique

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (95%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico; Mexico City (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2012



68 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Growing Traffic in Sri Lanka's Waters Threatens Blue Whales

BYLINE: By ERIK OLSEN

 BODY:
MIRISSA, Sri Lanka -- In early April, whale watchers off this country's southern coast were greeted by a disturbing sight: the lifeless body of a 60-foot-long blue whale floating in the water about 12 miles offshore.
The body was swelling rapidly, and suckerfish swarmed across its skin. Even more unsettling was the condition of its tail, which had been nearly severed from the body.
''It was very obviously from a ship's propeller,'' said Mazdak Radjainia, a structural biologist and underwater photographer from the University of Auckland in New Zealand who happened upon the whale. ''It must have been a really cruel death, because it was such a massive injury.''
Researchers say ship strikes are a leading cause of death among whales around the globe. Many that are killed are from endangered populations like blue whales that are barely holding on. 
The problem is particularly troublesome here in Sri Lanka, where a largely unstudied population of blue whales, possibly numbering in the thousands, has come under increasing pressure from commercial shipping and from a boom in unregulated whale-watching boats.
Because these waters are poorly monitored, scientists do not know for sure whether ship strikes are on the rise. But the whale's death in April was already the sixth of the year, according to news reports. In one grisly encounter in March, a blue whale was found draped over the bow of a container vessel in the harbor in the capital, Colombo, 90 miles north of this beach resort. Last year, some 20 whale carcasses (not all of them blue whales) were seen around the island, according to Arjan Rajasuriya, a research officer with the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency in Colombo. It is not known how many of the deaths resulted from ship strikes.
''These strikes likely represent only a portion of the likely true mortality,'' said John Calambokidis, a whale researcher in Olympia, Wash., who documents ship strikes off the West Coast of the United States. Because blue whales often sink soon after they are struck, most such deaths go unrecorded, and Dr. Calambokidis says the true number ''could be 10 or 20 times'' the number seen.
Fifteen miles off the southern coast of Sri Lanka is one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, and whales are known to swim regularly inside them. But some scientists believe that the increase in whale watching could be forcing whales to seek food farther out, pushing them into the big ships' path.
''I'm afraid the whales are being harassed by the whale-watching boats and that this could affect their movement,'' said Asha de Vos, a whale researcher here.
The threat to the whales has some researchers scrambling to learn as much as they can about them and to find a way to protect them.
''Having these whales right off the coast is pretty amazing,'' said Ari S. Friedlaender, a research scientist at the Duke University Marine Laboratory. ''We know so little about blue whales in general that any place that you have easy access to animals like this, your learning curve is going to be exponential.''
In 2009, Sri Lanka ended a deadly 25-year civil war that largely kept foreign scientists and researchers away from these waters. Several general surveys in the 1970s revealed that there were whales here, but it was not until the 1990s that interest started to grow. Researchers were particularly drawn by the whales' tendency to stay here year round; other blue whale populations are known to migrate vast distances.
Perhaps no one has studied these whales and promoted their conservation as much as Ms. de Vos.
Three years ago, Ms. de Vos started the Sri Lankan Blue Whale Project, a long-term research program that she hopes will stop the carnage and raise awareness of the whales here. For the last three years, from December to May, she has been photographing the whales and using scientific instruments to better understand their feeding behaviors.
''Clearly, there's something down there that's keeping them around. But we need to know where it is and how much,'' she said.
In March, Ms. de Vos was helped by a team of researchers from the Duke University Marine Lab who brought along an electronic echo sounder, which uses sound waves to measure the density of prey in the water. For 10 days, she and the team crisscrossed miles of water, taking measurements and finding spots thick with krill.
The data will help scientists better understand where and when the whales are feeding -- and, she hopes, persuade the government to shift the shipping lanes farther out to sea.
Ms. de Vos, who was born and raised in Colombo, became a champion of the blue whales after she took a boat ride in 2006 and was astounded by what she saw.
''There were six whales within four square kilometers of where I was, and that was it for me,'' she said. ''That was a sign, and I knew I wanted to better understand and protect them.''
But her effort is fraught with challenges, including a lack of support from local authorities and the disadvantages of being a young woman in a society dominated by men. ''I'm very much on my own around here,'' she said. ''I don't have a lot of infrastructure or equipment to do my work.''
She has received some financial support from the University of Western Australia, where she is completing a doctorate in oceanography.
''Her work is really setting the stage for further research on these animals,'' said Dr. Friedlaender, who hopes to visit the region next year.
Ms. de Vos notes that with the end of Sri Lanka's civil war, there is now a major push to increase tourism, and whale watching is a critical part of the government's development strategy. While the effort may bring much-needed economic development to this poor country, Ms. de Vos is concerned that it may all be happening too fast.
''Right now, whale-watching boats are driving helter-skelter around the animals,'' she said. ''I don't want it to explode into something that becomes a harassment for the whales.''
In other countries with established whale-watching industries, laws prohibit getting close to the animals; the United States sets the minimum distance at 100 yards. Ms. de Vos would like to see similar regulations here.
''In this new era of peace, the blue whale is very fast becoming the symbol of our country,'' she said. ''It would be very sad to harm these animals because of our foolishness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VICTIM: A dead blue whale, found in April off the southern coast of Sri Lanka. Its tail had been nearly severed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAZDAK RADJAINIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); ZOOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); BEACHES (78%); BIOLOGY (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); RESORTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



69 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Europe Increases Power Of Central Bank's Chief

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and JACK EWING; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting from Rome.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- The spotlight in the European debt crisis has now shifted decisively toward the influential leader of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, who emerged from the recent summit meeting in Brussels with new powers and stronger backing to address the Continent's financial woes.
Political leaders took significant strides toward making the central bank more like the United States Federal Reserve, giving it authority to oversee the euro zone's largest banks and, once that new regulator is in place as soon as the end of this year, a likely role in rescuing Spanish banks with capital directly from the European rescue funds.
Many of the longer-run plans under discussion, like European deposit insurance, would mean shifting further responsibilities toward the bank, arguably giving Mr. Draghi the most influential executive powers in Europe.
''In terms of unelected people, he is by far the most powerful in the democratic world,'' said Franklin Allen, a professor of finance and economics at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. ''He's going to have huge influence over bank supervision and over the purchase of sovereign debt, whether he's the head of the committees in charge or not.'' 
On Thursday, the central bank's policy meeting will serve as kind of a second act to the summit meeting, with its council probably offering a rate cut as a tacit reward to leaders for the progress they made, as well as a chance for Mr. Draghi to sketch out his version of a stronger Europe. He is the one actor in a fragmented Continent who can move swiftly and resolutely, as he did in dispensing nearly $1.3 trillion in cheap loans to banks and briefly stilling market unrest.
But his determination to remake the currency union for long-term stability has made him equally willing to withstand pressure in the past. He has the power to withhold cuts in interest rates, resist pressure to inject more money into the European monetary system, and hold off on purchases of sovereign debt from struggling countries if he determines that political leaders are not doing what is necessary to fix their economies.
''He is calm in the face of the storm,'' said the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who has known Mr. Draghi for more than a decade, ''and he sees the world as it is, not how we'd like it to be.''
It remains to be seen how the missing details from the summit meeting could undermine his discretion, how much power he would have over the bailout funds, for instance, or how an E.C.B. banking authority would relate to national bank regulators. Mr. Draghi's new powers also do not address what many analysts see as the biggest structural question facing the euro zone: how to reduce the heavy debts of many of the region's economies at a time of severe economic weakness.
One thing is certain: The financial and monetary integration in Europe continues to outpace the deepening of political and fiscal ties, risking an angry reaction from German taxpayers who could find themselves on the hook for more and more liabilities. A German constitutional court is wary of allowing too much latitude to Mr. Draghi and other European officials, threatening to strike down steps that violate Germany's Basic Law.
But for now, Mr. Draghi's already significant influence seems only to have grown. One official who works closely with Mr. Draghi said he still enjoyed the support of Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, who understood well his carrot-and-stick method.
Analysts expect the bank to cut its main interest rate to 0.75 percent on Thursday from 1 percent, the lowest ever, in a further attempt to unblock credit. As evidenced by his decision at the beginning of June to leave interest rates unchanged, despite signs that Spain was sliding toward the abyss, they, and euro-zone leaders, would be well advised not to underestimate his nerve.
His stance was widely perceived as a warning to political leaders that he was willing to play hardball to get them to adopt the policies he wanted. Mr. Draghi's years of working in the Italian Treasury as it struggled to reduce deficits in order to meet the criteria to join the euro have taught him that politically unpopular changes are never accomplished without pressure.
Policy makers and analysts alike insist that behind the pressure tactics is a man who is prepared to do whatever it takes to save the common currency and with it the central bank he leads. ''He has the most essential insight of a central banker that you need in a crisis -- the recognition that there are some things only central banks can do, and if they don't do them then nothing is possible,'' Mr. Geithner said.
His nickname, Super Mario, does not seem to fit him. Mr. Draghi, 64, has no obvious flash or flair; an economist in a dark suit and glasses, he has just enough of a knowing smirk, a gentle irony, to avoid seeming dull, more monetary Machiavelli than video-game hero.
When Mr. Draghi took over as the European Central Bank's president in November, he immediately changed the conduct of the monetary policy meetings held high in the bank's skyscraper headquarters in Frankfurt.
His predecessor, Jean-Claude Trichet, started each gathering by stating his own views before inviting agreement and dissent from the other 22 members of the council, most of them heads of national central banks from tiny Malta to mighty Germany. Mr. Draghi, several participants said, first solicits opinions from around the doughnut-shaped conference table, only at the very end announcing where he stands.
In some ways he has been preparing for this moment for his entire life. Mr. Draghi's father, who died when Mario was 15, once worked at the Bank of Italy. Before a long career as a banker, the elder Mr. Draghi worked for a government agency under Mussolini that had been founded to restructure financial institutions and other companies in trouble because of the Great Depression.
As director general of the Italian Treasury, Mario Draghi, the steady hand just below a revolving cast of political appointees, was in charge of selling off the Italian phone company and other state assets in the 1990s. He had a knack for locating the sweet spot where the interests of the Italian government and investors coincided.
''Mario has incredibly finely tuned antennas when it comes to speaking to different people,'' said Philipp M. Hildebrand, former president of the Swiss National Bank, who represented an investment company during the privatization drive and later sat on a panel led by Mr. Draghi that negotiated international banking rules. When talks were at an impasse, Mr. Hildebrand said, ''I remember sitting around the table thinking, 'I have no idea how to find a solution.' He managed.''
The sweet spot Mr. Draghi must negotiate now is between the monetary hawks, especially in Germany, who say he has abused his power by going far beyond his inflation-fighting mandate, and the soft-money doves who say his failure is not going far enough to rescue the euro.
Mr. Draghi in turn has urged politicians to do more, dismayed by the way they eased up on their reform drives once the flood of cheap loans to banks calmed markets for a few months. The lesson was that big injections of cash from the European Central Bank produce little more than a sugar high unless they are accompanied by fundamental reforms to the currency union's architecture, changes that would convince investors that the euro zone is built for the long haul.
''Mario Draghi is going to be damned if he does and damned if he doesn't. Damned if he does because he'll be seen in Germany as caving in to irresponsible and profligate countries in the periphery,'' said Philip Whyte, a senior research fellow at the Center for European Reform in London. ''If he doesn't cave in, it's difficult to see how Greece can stay inside the euro zone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi, left, president of the European Central Bank, uses a carrot-and-stick approach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YVES HERMAN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); BELGIUM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



70 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: For Mexicans, It Was the Economy, Stupid

BYLINE: By MARK WEISBROT. 
Mark Weisbrot is co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research.

 BODY:
Washington
IF ever there were an election preordained as a result of economic performance, it would be Mexico's election on Sunday. The ruling National Action Party, or PAN, was destined to lose because it had presided over profound economic failure for 11 years. Almost any government in world would have lost under such circumstances.
Commentators, focused on the six-year-old drug war, have largely neglected to note the depth of Mexico's economic problems. Let's start with the basics: Since 2000, when the PAN was first elected, income per person in Mexico has grown by just 0.9 percent annually. This is terrible for a developing country, and less than half the rate of growth of the Latin American region during this period -- which was itself not stellar. If we just look at per capita growth since the last election, in 2006, Mexico finishes dead last of all the countries in Latin America. 
Between 1980 and 2000, when the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, lost control of Mexico for the first time in more than 70 years, the country saw a precipitous drop in economic growth. Before the 1980s, Mexico was growing at a rate that would have lifted the country to European living standards, had it continued.
It is not fashionable among observers, in the United States or Mexico, to mention that Mexico's economy has performed abysmally for more than 30 years. Starting with the recession and Latin American debt crisis in the early 1980s, the PRI shifted toward what economists call ''neoliberalism'': abandoning state-led industrial and development policies, tightening monetary and fiscal policies and liberalizing foreign investment and trade. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which took effect in 1994, was only the most visible example of this transformation.
Of course, not all of these policies were mistaken, but the overall result was an unqualified failure. The same thing happened across Latin America from 1980 to 2000, where gross domestic product, per capita, grew by 6 percent, as compared with 92 percent over the prior two decades.
The vast majority of the region responded to the long-term economic failure of the 1980s and 1990s -- the worst such performance in more than a century -- by electing left-wing governments: Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela, Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Uruguay, Nicaragua, El Salvador and others. These candidates and parties ran explicitly against what they called ''neoliberalism.'' Why then did Mexico move to the right?
Part of the answer may be found in Mexico's electoral institutions, and especially the ownership of the news media. In 1988, the PRI candidate, Carlos Salinas, was declared the winner over a leftist candidate, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, only because of widespread electoral fraud. The 2006 election was too close to call: the PAN candidate, Felipe Calderon, who is now finishing his six-year term as president, was declared the winner by a razor-thin margin, and only after a partial recount, the results of which were never released to the public.
More important, the media, which are essentially owned by a monopoly, were found to have played a significant role in the 2006 elections, more than enough to prevent the most left-wing candidate, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who ran again this year, from winning. With 95 percent of TV broadcasts controlled by just two media outlets with a strong and documented bias in favor of the PRI, a true left-of-center candidate has little chance.
More than half of all Mexicans are living below the official poverty line, and the new government does not look like it has much to offer the country's poor majority. Sadly, Mexico's economic progress will probably remain very halting until there is a more level playing field for elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); URUGUAY (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); ECUADOR (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



71 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Shares End Mixed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors rejoiced over Europe last week. On Monday, they got back to worrying about the United States.
Stocks struggled to stay out of the red in quiet holiday-week trading after the government said American manufacturing shrank in June for the first time in almost three years.
The Dow Jones industrial average opened higher but fell after the manufacturing report came out at 10 a.m. Eastern time and never recovered. It finished down 8.70 points at 12,871.39. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite both finished slightly higher after hopping between small gains and losses. The S.&P. rose 3.35 to 1,365.51. The Nasdaq rose 16.18 to 2,951.23.
DuPont fell the most in the Dow. It lost $1.14, or 2.3 percent, to $49.43. Caterpillar, General Electric, Alcoa, Exxon Mobil, Boeing and other companies tied to manufacturing were also down.
It was a tepid performance compared with Europe's. Stock indexes in France, Britain and Germany rose more than 1 percent, still riding the euphoria from Friday's announcement that European leaders will make it easier for banks to get bailout loans. That news pushed the Dow up 227 points Friday.
The government did report a sliver of good news about the United States economy Monday, though investors seemed underwhelmed: Construction spending rose in May by 0.9 percent, the most in five months.
Monday was the first day of trading for the second half of the year. In the first half, the S.&P. gained more than 8 percent. Several financial analysts said they expected volatile markets, at least through the November presidential election.
''We don't know who it will be,'' said Benjamin Segal, portfolio manager for global equities at Neuberger Berman. ''And even if we did, we don't know the particular policies they'd pursue.''
Analysts also cited tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect in January -- the so-called fiscal cliff.
Derrick Irwin, portfolio manager for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, said the United States market would ''muddle through the foreseeable future.'' Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer of Bank of New York Mellon's wealth management division, said the market would ''continue to move from hope to despair.''
Investors hope for some clarity later this week. Car companies report monthly United States sales Tuesday, retailers like Target and Macy's report monthly sales on Thursday, and a closely watched federal report on jobs comes out Friday.
And though stocks rose in Europe, some analysts wondered how long those gains would last. Previous steps to ease the debt crisis have been met by market gains that quickly disappeared.
''The euro zone is really uncharted territory for a generation of investors,'' Mr. Irwin said. ''I think anybody who thinks they really know what is happening there is, at best, guessing.''
The day also brought reminders of how badly Europe needs help: Unemployment in the 17 countries that use the euro hit the highest level since the euro was launched in 1999.
In France, auditors warned that the country still has a big budget hole to plug. In Cyprus, leaders prepared for talks on its own bailout. And in Germany, the highest court announced it would hear arguments from people who want to block the rescue.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year United States Treasury note fell to 1.59 percent on Monday, down from 1.63 on Friday. The price of crude oil fell $1.21 to end the day at $83.75 per barrel.
In corporate news, Best Buy jumped nearly $1.24, or 5.9 percent, to $22.20 after reports that its founder would offer to buy the company and take it private. Best Buy, an electronics store, has struggled to keep up with online-only competitors like Amazon.
Groupon fell $1.12, or $9.51, after analysts at Susquehanna cut their price target for the company, noting higher marketing expenses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); EURO ZONE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (68%); RETAILERS (60%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); ALCOA INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); BOEING CO (56%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



72 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Tension for East Hampton As Immigrants Stream In

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
The Long Island Rail Road station in the town of East Hampton is a manicured place; the little white station house flanked by tidy trees almost looks like a child's toy that just came out of the box. It is a short drive from the beach and steps from lavish boutiques, stores like John Varvatos and Coach. On any summer day, caravans of luxury cars can be spotted out front.
But on any workday, residents say, it is dotted with another sight as well: men in sturdy boots and dusty jeans, laborers looking to be picked up for work.
When one thinks of the Hamptons, what jumps to mind are masters of the universe and their mansions by the sea. But a strong, steady stream of immigrants has been flowing to the area for years, drawn by a service economy that demands hedges be trimmed and houses be cleaned. In the Springs, a hamlet in the town of East Hampton, where most of the houses are small and the year-round population is relatively large, the Hispanic population has tripled in the past 10 years -- and tension has emerged. 
Some longtime residents of the Springs and similar areas complain that homes are being illegally crowded, that houses with half a dozen cars parked outside are a blight on the street, and that the many children living inside are overwhelming the local schools and causing property taxes to rise.
''When you tell people you live in East Hampton, the first words out of their mouth are usually, 'Do you live next to P. Diddy or Alec Baldwin?' '' said Dennis Michael Lynch, an East Hampton resident and a filmmaker who made a documentary about illegal immigration called ''They Come to America.''
''People have a perception of the Hamptons,'' Mr. Lynch continued. ''They don't have an image of illegal immigrants packed like sardines into houses.''
The pockets of tension are concentrated in year-round communities, where the immigrants, legal and illegal, tend to live alongside the landscapers and the contractors with whom they are competing for business. These areas are far less affluent than the southern end of town, where Manhattanites spend the summer by the ocean, in homes hidden behind 12-foot hedges.
''South of the highway, the rich people, they don't care,'' said Ricardo Rodriguez, a carpenter from Colombia who has lived in East Hampton for 12 years. It is among ''the working people, regular people like us,'' he continued, where less welcoming sentiments can be found. ''You can feel it.''
Most of the houses on the leafy, winding roads of the Springs are small, well kept but simple. Pickup trucks and modest cars are parked in driveways under fluttering American flags. Home prices and rents are relatively low. Most Springs residents are white, but according to the 2010 census, 37 percent are Hispanic.
Francisco Rafael Varela, an immigrant from Nicaragua who was waiting for a bus in East Hampton last week under a clear blue sky, said that when he came to this country, he came not to New York City or to Florida, but directly to the Hamptons to find work.
Mr. Lynch and others who have raised the issue of crowded houses -- at Town Board meetings or in property owner association newsletters -- say it has nothing to do with race or ethnicity, but rather enforcement of existing codes that designate homes for single-family use. If a house is crammed with several families, they say, or occupied like a rooming house, that can hurt a whole street. Or when neighbors pack houses full of children, their critics complain of ending up shouldering an unfair portion of the school tax burden.
''This is really about property values and the neighborhood,'' said Carol Saxe Buda, who helped begin a group called Unoccupy Springs about a year and a half ago to address crowding.
''A substantial number of illegally occupied homes reflect a certain community,'' she added, referring to immigrants, but she emphasized that where the residents came from was never the reason her group singled out a home. The group's members highlight only places that are, by their crowding, straining the local schools or threatening neighboring property values, she said. ''We report houses that are problems,'' she said. ''We don't care who's in them.''
The East Hampton housing code allows no more than four unrelated people, or one family, to occupy a single-family home, and town officials acknowledge that crowding does exist. They receive a few complaints each week, most frequently in the Springs, and some of those do result in violations. And the deputy town supervisor, Theresa K. Quigley, said the Springs had some of the highest per-acre taxes around.
Nonetheless, some residents, including Ms. Quigley, say the objections are more sinister. ''The people who came to the Town Board insist there is nothing racial intended,'' said Ms. Quigley, who was born and raised in the Hamptons. ''They say they're talking about overcrowding, but they're talking about Latinos.''
This spring, some residents went to a Town Board meeting waving giant photographs of homes they said were over-occupied, Ms. Quigley recounted, and threatening to compile and publicize a list of every one of those homes they could find. Ms. Quigley made a comment to a person nearby comparing the sentiments in the room to the rise of Nazism. That comment was picked up by a microphone and it soon typhooned into a controversy.
Last week, she refused to back down from the comparison.
''How, how, how could a country do what they did?'' Ms. Quigley, who has lived in Germany, asked of that country's past. ''I don't have an answer, but I can tell you one thing: It's a series of little steps. It doesn't happen in a huge bang. And it happens by targeting a group for your problems.''
East Hampton, she continued, ''is a great place to live, but we have troubles.''
''People tend to blame the Latino community for their troubles,'' she added. ''Doesn't that sound a little familiar? Like blaming the Jews for troubles in Germany.''
Fred Weinberg, a member of the Unoccupy Springs group who was at that Town Board meeting, said that as a Jewish man, he found the remarks extremely offensive, and he demanded Ms. Quigley's resignation. She did not oblige or apologize.
Today he continues to work on the issues of crowding, he said, though he prefers to work away from Ms. Quigley when possible.
''I know there are people who probably are racist,'' Mr. Weinberg said. ''But it's not me, it's not Carol Buda, it's not any of the people that I know who have been trying to work on this problem. We just want them, very simply, to enforce the law and protect our community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As cyclists ride by, Carlos Fernando Quintana, an immigrant from Guatemala, trims a hedge in East Hampton, N.Y.
 Postings in an East Hampton shop,written in Spanish, offer rentals, and right, day laborers wait for work in Southampton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



73 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Doing Apps and Start-Ups While Still in High School

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Like many young entrepreneurs here in Silicon Valley, Matthew Slipper knows that success does not come easy. His first start-up, an online education venture, flopped. His second, a video-sharing app for the iPhone, has sold only 20 copies.
But Mr. Slipper is optimistic. He should be. He's just 18, a founding member of the Paly Entrepreneurs Club, an extracurricular group at the local high school that sprang into existence last September -- the brainchild of about a dozen students committed to inventing the future.
''I want to build something that is tied to what is happening next,'' he said.
While budding moguls in high school clubs like the Future Business Leaders of America invest make-believe money in the stock market or study the principles of accounting, the Entrepreneurs Club members have a distinctly Silicon Valley flavor: they want to create start-ups. 
They have met weekly during the school year to discuss their ventures and ideas, explore matters like money-raising strategies and new markets, and host guest speakers. Once, they held a Skype chat with a software engineer in Sweden who described the intricacies of running an online music business.
Founding a company in high school is ''a great opportunity,'' said Vincent Gurle, 18. Later in life, ''if you fail at business you might have to go live with your parents,'' he said. ''But we're already doing that.''
Mr. Gurle, who will attend the University of California, Santa Cruz in the fall, started a business last year aimed at supplying students to companies as software testers. It sputtered when he could not find enough companies interested in buying the service. He counts the effort a success anyway, he told the club at a recent meeting, figuring that the people he met will remember him when he returns with his next idea.
Now he is learning how to program for Microsoft's new mobile operating system.
Club members have been working on projects like a social network to help teenagers quickly organize study groups and a trading network for Bitcoin, a virtual currency. They have brainstormed ideas for mobile geolocation games and new kinds of grocery store scanners.
At a recent meeting, about a dozen boys gathered in an empty economics classroom at Palo Alto High, known as Paly. The demographic somewhat reflects Silicon Valley, too; there were no girls, though all the boys say they wish some would join their club.
There also were few laptops or even tablets in the room, befitting a post-PC world. All the boys had their work on paper or smartphones. They passed these around to show off their latest concepts.
Mr. Slipper, who plans to attend the University of California, Santa Barbara in January after a stint in R.O.T.C. boot camp, demonstrated his video-sharing app, speaking quickly so as to leave time for everyone to talk about their ideas before the lunch bell rang.
''The syntax wasn't hard,'' he said, explaining the coding involved. ''Objective C in the iOS framework took me about two weeks to learn. I've modeled the business on Instagram, leveraging speed and ease of loading.'' Sympathetic young heads nodded.
''How will you protect your intellectual property?'' asked Aaron Bajor, 18, one of the group's founders. He was waiting to discuss a diagram of his own project, a social network for entrepreneurs entering college.
''Someone can always copy your idea, but that will be half-baked,'' Mr. Slipper said confidently. ''It's not theirs.''
James Maa, another club founder, was up next to discuss his project, the study group social network.
''We're not out in public yet,'' he said, apologetically. Mr. Maa, 18, plans to study computer science at the University of California, Berkeley in the fall. His social life, which included attending many events for start-ups, had gotten in the way of building the network, which he calls Bubble.
Not everyone had a project to present, and that was acceptable.
''The goal here is inspirational,'' said Mr. Bajor, who is headed to the University of Southern California to study entrepreneurship. ''A great idea can hit you any time. Even if you do not have a great idea yet, if you have capabilities and passion others will want you on their team.''
Not every would-be tech titan at Paly belongs to the club. Some were distracted by college applications and plans for the prom. Or other things. ''There are probably a half-dozen other kids who should be in this club,'' Mr. Bajor said, but they just didn't have time. ''They are too busy starting their own companies.''
Start-up fever for these students is something they breathe in the air, or learn at home, with parents who work in the tech industry. Fern Mandelbaum, a partner at the venture capital firm Monitor Ventures, and a parent at the school, attended a club meeting to explain how her business works.
The students in the club were not the only beneficiaries of Ms. Mandelbaum's advice: Her daughter, Skylar Dorosin, started and for several years ran a summer camp. Ms. Dorosin, 17, is heading to Stanford in the fall, and has turned the camp over to her 11-year-old brother, Miles Dorosin.
''The kids here have such an unfair advantage,'' said Aaron Levie, 27, the chief executive of a data storage company, Box, referring to students throughout the Valley. He recently spoke during Science Week at another local high school, nearby Los Altos High. ''In Seattle we had lots of computers, but we never had venture capitalists drop by.''
At his talk in Los Altos, he had this advice.
''I told them to make friends and leverage their four years of freedom,'' he said. ''If you look at Apple, Microsoft and Facebook, you see that lots of foundational things can happen among high school friends.'' Like those other companies, he said, Box, valued at about $350 million, was built by several high school friends.
Deborah Whitson, a Paly economics teacher who is the club's faculty adviser, said that in recent years she had noticed a shift in the kinds of projects that interest business-minded students. ''In the 'olden days' we'd have a few jewelry designers or dog walkers among the students,'' she said. ''The Internet started to change that. In the past five years, things have boomed because of the iPhone.''
Ms. Whitson worries that the club may not survive without its enthusiastic leaders. Mr. Bajor, however, said his brother, who just finished his sophomore year, is eager to pursue his own start-up dreams.
Another sophomore, 15-year-old Max Bernstein, helped the club recruit some speakers this year, but had to drop out of meetings because of time conflicts with the robotics club. Next year, though, he said he would have more time for the Entrepreneurs Club. He won't have to take gym class.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A lunchtime meeting of the Paly Entrepreneurs Club, with Matthew Slipper, in white shirt, Vincent Gurle and James Maa. (B1)
 Matthew Slipper, left, and Vincent Gurle, both 18 and attending Palo Alto High School, discussing their technology projects.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (66%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (66%); CURRENCIES (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (63%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



74 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: With New Agency, 'Madboy' Blazes New Trail

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
RICHARD KIRSHENBAUM, the self-proclaimed ''Madboy'' of advertising, is, characteristically, taking a nontraditional tack as he pursues the next act in his agency career.
Mr. Kirshenbaum joined Jonathan Bond in 1987 to start the irreverent creative agency Kirshenbaum & Bond, now known as Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners and owned by MDC Partners. Mr. Kirshenbaum, who titled his recent memoir ''Madboy,'' has become the chief executive of a boutique agency called NSG/SWAT, part of a company he owns, the Nue Studio Group. The agency is meant to offer marketers an alternative to agencies like Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal, and to the many other shops that are larger or smaller. ''Clearly, it's time for a new model,'' Mr. Kirshenbaum said in an interview last week at the NSG/SWAT office on Spring Street in downtown Manhattan. ''I knew I didn't want to do another traditional advertising agency.''
Mr. Kirshenbaum opened the Nue Studio Group in January 2011, a year before he left his post as chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal. Now, he and his partners are ready to discuss the agency's work and goals. 
Those partners are an interesting aspect of Mr. Kirshenbaum's new venture. Mr. Kirshenbaum is 51; his partners are a pair of 29-year-olds, Troy Lumpkin and Miles Skinner, who are the co-creative directors. Mr. Skinner said he had previously been familiar with Mr. Kirshenbaum's work at Kirshenbaum & Bond, for marketers like Kenneth Cole, Hennessy and Snapple. But Mr. Lumpkin acknowledged he had not.
''I learned about who Richard was,'' Mr. Lumpkin said, ''and I saw more than just another guy in a suit who ran an ad agency.''
A major selling point that NSG/SWAT makes to potential clients is the combination of Mr. Kirshenbaum's strategic experience with the contemporary mind-set of what he describes as his ''next-generation team.''
''Miles and Troy are digital natives,'' Mr. Kirshenbaum said, ''whereas I'm a digital immigrant.''
Under their leadership, NSG/SWAT seeks to avoid overhead costs by assembling ''SWAT teams'' of employees tailored to each client's needs, while taking advantage of changes in technology and the arrival of new ways to market, like social media.
NSG/SWAT is also seeking to differentiate itself by the kinds of marketers for which it works. Many clients are entrepreneurs, whether of the old-school variety (family-run companies) or the modern equivalent (private equity investors).
For John A. Vassilaros & Son, the Flushing, Queens, coffee company that dates from 1919, the agency is developing an espresso brand to be named Vassi.
''In the meetings, the young guys know so much about what's going on today,'' said John Vassilaros, the president, ''and Richard's showing me things I didn't know that I didn't know.''
''Given Richard's reputation, this is my window to afford him,'' Mr. Vassilaros said, laughing. ''I think he's going to grow big again.''
And for VMG Partners, which invests private equity in consumer product companies, NSG/SWAT is creating new identities for two brands of accessories like shoes and handbags, Kelsi Dagger and Pour La Victoire.
''Richard has the track record, the history, and you blend that with this edgy, young team, it feels fresh,'' said Lottie Oakley, executive vice president of marketing and merchandising for the two brands.
Mr. Kirshenbaum is also taking a page from the entrepreneurial playbook -- putting ''skin in the game,'' he said -- by investing in equity stakes in some client brands. They include Blackwell Jamaican rum, in partnership with the music executive Chris Blackwell, and the Kutsher's Tribeca restaurant.
NSG/SWAT is also being hired by major marketers like Jockey International, for which the agency is helping develop a line of sport underwear to make its debut next spring. Dustin Cohn, chief marketing officer at Jockey, said he had found Mr. Kirshenbaum ''to be flexible and accommodating.''
''There's no ego whatsoever,'' Mr. Cohn added, ''which is refreshing for someone as accomplished as Richard is.''
For all the praise, there are no guarantees the agency will achieve all its goals. Madison Avenue is perhaps more competitive than ever. Other agencies in the vein of NSG/SWAT are using the same strategies, like SWAT teams. And other daunting obstacles remain, the economy perhaps the most formidable.
''The economy has been challenging for many people,'' Mr. Kirshenbaum said. ''The most important thing is that I love the advertising business.''
''When I thought about the next chapter, I thought about what would get me excited, get me up in the morning to go to work. I wanted to get back to having fun.''
''And I am having the best time,'' he said. ''I love working with this next generation of creative people.''
Mr. Skinner said: ''It's not just about being young. I believe our pairing is our edge. We're getting a massive education from Richard, and hopefully it's vice versa.''
Mr. Kirshenbaum's next act contrasts with that of his former partner, Mr. Bond, who left Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal in February 2010. Mr. Bond became chief executive of, and an equity partner in, Big Fuel Communications, an agency in New York specializing in areas like social media. A global agency holding company, the Publicis Groupe, bought a majority stake in Big Fuel in July 2011, and Mr. Bond has continued as chief executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Kirshenbaum, center, a longtime advertising executive and chief executive of the new boutique ad agency NSG/ SWAT, with the creative directors he describes as his ''next-generation team,'' Miles Skinner, left, and Troy Lumpkin. Mr. Kirshenbaum is investing in equity stakes in some client brands, including Blackwell Jamaican rum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDON GOTTLIEB) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COFFEE & TEA (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); COFFEE (63%)

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (57%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



75 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Rigged Rates, Rigged Markets

 BODY:
Marcus Agius, the chairman of Barclays, resigned on Monday, saying ''the buck stops with me.'' His was the first departure since the British bank agreed last week to pay $450 million to settle findings that, from 2005 to 2009, it had tried to rig benchmark interest rates to benefit its own bottom line. 
Mr. Agius was right to go and the bank's chief executive, Robert Diamond Jr., should follow him out the door. But the investigations cannot stop there.
The rates in question -- the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and the Euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor -- are used to determine the borrowing rates for consumers and companies, including some $10 trillion in mortgages, student loans and credit cards. The rates are also linked to an estimated $700 trillion market in derivatives, which banks buy and sell on a daily basis. If these rates are rigged, markets are rigged -- against bank customers, like everyday borrowers, and against parties on the other side of a bank's derivatives deals, like pension funds.
Barclays is only one of more than a dozen big banks that provide information used to set the daily rate for Libor and Euribor. The settlement, struck with regulators in Washington and London and with the Department of Justice, indicates that the bank did not act alone. It shows that unnamed managers and traders of Barclays in London, New York and Tokyo colluded with or prevailed upon bank employees who provide the benchmark data to make false reports. The aim was to bolster Barclays's trading positions and to aid or counteract other banks' attempts at manipulation.
The evidence, cited by the Justice Department -- which Barclays agreed is ''true and accurate'' -- is damning. ''Always happy to help,'' one employee wrote in an e-mail after being asked to submit false information. ''If you know how to keep a secret, I'll bring you in on it,'' wrote a Barclays trader to a trader at another bank, referring to an attempt to align their strategies for mutual gain.
If that's not conspiracy and price-fixing, what is?
The Justice Department has left open the possibility of prosecuting officers or employees of Barclays. But it has agreed not to prosecute the bank itself, in part because Barclays was the first to cooperate in the investigation and has agreed to keep cooperating. Such an agreement makes sense only if that cooperation will allow prosecutors to nail other banks that have been involved in setting the rates, including potential cases against Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and HSBC, and people who work there.
To date, the Justice Department has not distinguished itself in prosecuting major banks or their executives for conduct leading up to and during the financial crisis. But with Barclays now cooperating, the ''Libor scandal'' is another chance for government prosecutors to unmask and punish financial wrongdoing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); BENCHMARKING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PRICE FIXING (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); CARTELS (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: MARCUS AGIUS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



76 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Iran Takes Defiant Steps Over New Sanctions

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran took defiant steps on Monday in response to the intensified Western sanctions aimed at stifling its oil exports, announcing legislation intended to disrupt traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, a vital Persian Gulf shipping lane, and testing missiles in a desert drill clearly intended as a warning to Israel and the United States.
The legislation calls for Iran's military to block any oil tanker heading through the strait en route to countries no longer buying Iranian crude because of the European Union embargo, which took effect on Sunday. 
It was unclear whether the legislation would pass or precisely how Iran would enforce it, given that the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet patrols the strait. Pentagon officials have said Iran's military is capable of closing the strait temporarily, and the Obama administration has warned that any such move would constitute a ''red line'' that would provoke an American response.
The strait, connecting the Gulf of Oman to the Persian Gulf, is the conduit for one fifth of the world's oil supply and has been called the world's most important ''oil chokepoint'' by the United States Department of Energy.
Iranian news services quoted Ibrahim Agha-Mohammadi, a member of Parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Committee, as saying the panel drafted the legislation ''as an answer to the European Union's oil sanctions against the Islamic Republic of Iran.''
The European embargo, along with new American restrictions that took effect on Friday, are intended to penalize Iran for refusing to suspend all uranium enrichment. Western nations and Israel suspect the enrichment program is aimed at creating the ability to make nuclear weapons, which Iran denies. While high-level talks have faltered, a meeting of lower level negotiators is planned for Tuesday.
In the second saber-rattling step, Iranian news agencies announced that the elite Revolutionary Guards Corps had begun three days of missile testing in the desert region of the central province of Semnan. Brig. Gen. Amir Ali Hajizadeh, a commander of the exercises, was quoted as saying they were intended as practice responses to attacks by ''adventurous nations,'' a reference to Israel and its most important ally, the United States.
Israel, which regards Iran as its most lethal enemy, has not ruled out conducting pre-emptive military strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities if it concludes that the Iranians are on the verge of nuclear bombmaking capability.
The Islamic Republic News Agency quoted General Hajizadeh as saying ''if any form of incident happens, Iran's ground-to-ground missiles will rain like thunderbolts upon the aggressors.''
Iran's foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said Iran had learned to cope with Western economic retribution since the 1979 Islamic revolution, and that no amount of sanctions would pressure Iran to change its position on uranium enrichment, which the Iranians regard as their legal right.
''We have been subject to sanctions for 33 years and these sanctions are an addition to the previous ones and this is not a problem,'' Mr. Salehi was quoted as saying by Press TV, a government-funded Web site.
Western oil industry analysts estimate that Iran's export of oil, the country's economic lifeline, has plunged by as much as 40 percent this year compared with a year earlier, partly in anticipation of the sanctions that have just taken effect. A roughly 20 percent decline in oil prices over the past few months has further aggravated economic pain in Iran.
The price weakness reflects a global economic slowdown and increased sources of supply from other prominent oil producers, notably Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Libya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); NAVIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DESERTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); RELIGION (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); US NAVY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (94%); GULF STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



77 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Shares Dip on Manufacturing Data, Then Recover

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity in the United States declined in June, making it the first monthly contraction since 2009, partly because of a slowdown in orders from Asia and Europe, according to a national survey released on Monday.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index registered 49.7 in June, the first time since July 2009 that it had fallen below 50, the level that separates a manufacturing expansion from a manufacturing contraction. The index was 53.5 in May. I.S.M. compiles the data from its survey of about 350 of the nation's supply executives, representing 18 industries ranging from furniture makers to beverage producers.
The I.S.M. report hit markets a day after Friday's relief rally, which was prompted by an agreement among European leaders on a broad plan to tackle Europe's banking crisis. 
Stocks in the United States initially fell after the report, but they recovered by the end of the day on Monday. At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.07 percent, or 8.7 points, to 12,871.39 and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 stock index was up by 0.25 percent to 1,365.51. The Nasdaq was higher by 0.6 percent to 2,951.23.
European indexes continued their gains from Friday. The Euro Stoxx 50 was up 1.2 percent while the CAC 40 in Paris rose 1.36 percent.
Demand for safe-haven United States Treasuries rose as the I.S.M. report cast a shadow over expectations for the economic recovery. The benchmark 10-year Treasury rose 17/32 to 101 16/32, and its yield fell to 1.59 percent, down from 1.64 percent on Friday.
A separate report from the Commerce Department said that construction spending rose in May to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $830.0 billion, or about 0.9 percent up from the revised April estimate of $822.5 billion. The latest figure is up 7 percent compared with the May, 2011, estimate of $775.8 billion.
Some of the executives in the manufacturing survey reported that the business seemed to be slowing because of concerns over Europe and sluggish world economies. ''Comments from the panel range from continued optimism to concern that demand may be softening because of uncertainties in the economies in Europe and China,'' the I.S.M. report said.
The main drivers of the weakness were large reversals in new orders and exports, said Daniel Meckstroth, the chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation.
He attributed the deceleration in manufacturing to the inability of the economy to sustain a production surge in the first quarter of the year and to seasonal patterns that were distorted by the warm winter. The worsening of the financial crisis in Europe has pushed United States trading partners in the euro zone into recession, he noted.
''The June I.S.M. report confirms that manufacturing production is irregular at times,'' Mr. Meckstroth said in a statement responding to the report. ''We believe it is downshifting into a slow growth rate for the remainder of this year and into the first half of next year.''
The latest index fell short of economists' predictions for 52.
In a research report, economists from Goldman Sachs noted that an important component of the survey, the prices-paid index, fell to 37.0 in June, from 47.5 in May, the lowest it has been throughout the economic recovery.
But another element, the employment index, edged down to 56.6 in June from 56.9 in May, suggesting that employment grew, but at a slower pace than it did in May.
''The report suggests that for the moment the manufacturing recovery is out of steam,'' said Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight.
The Europe financial crisis, the slow pace of global economic growth and the weakness of the recovery in the United States have been overhanging the financial markets for more than a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A wind turbine plant in Newton, Iowa. Manufacturing contracted in June, a national report said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); STATISTICS (75%); BEVERAGE MFG (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); FURNITURE MFG (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BANK FAILURES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); EURO ZONE (65%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



78 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Home Prices Reported Steady

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Prices and sales volume for Manhattan real estate continued to hold relatively steady in the second quarter of 2012, because of a continued decline in inventory, low interest rates and increased foreign investment.
The median sale price for the second quarter was $840,000, up 2.4 percent from the same period in 2011, according to a report from StreetEasy.com that will be released on Tuesday.
Reports from the city's largest brokerage firms also indicated relatively flat pricing, with one showing the median dropping by 2.5 percent and the others showing an increase of 1 to 2 percent. Sales volume was higher than a year ago and had more than doubled since the number of sales dropped to fewer than 2,000 in the first quarter of 2009, according to a Corcoran Group report. 
''The stability of prices in the past few quarters has instilled confidence in a lot of people,'' said James M. Gricar, general sales manager at Halstead Property. ''Rates are quite low and the rental market is quite high. Conditions are good. That has led to a very stable, healthy -- and for brokers, optimistic -- market.''
The new numbers come after evidence suggesting the national housing market is finally starting to recover. Still, Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Prudential Douglas Elliman's report, said the national market was behind the New York market, which began to stabilize in early 2010 and was ''moving sideways ever since.'' He added that the city benefited more from foreign buyers than did the typical United States housing market and that Manhattan's foreclosure rate remained low, as a result of tight co-op approval standards.
Sales were more robust at the upper and lower reaches of the market. The average condominium sale price was up, with Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property showing an 8 percent increase over last year to $1.81 million, buoyed by tight inventory and strong sales in the luxury market, including a $70 million sale on Central Park South.
The median price for co-ops sold during the second quarter, however, was slightly below the same period last year, because of a shift in market share toward entry-level apartments like studios and one-bedrooms, with the Corcoran Report showing a 5 percent drop to $640,000. It was the third consecutive quarter that the market share for entry-level studio and one-bedrooms was above 50 percent, driven by low mortgage rates and rising rents.
Over all, inventory has declined to 14,254 apartments, a 5.9 percent decrease from the same period last year, according to StreetEasy.com. If that trend continues along with rising demand, prices could move higher. The number of price cuts was down by 19.8 percent, compared with the same period last year, according to StreetEasy.com.
More than 3,400 listings went into contract in the quarter, a 20.7 percent increase from a year ago, according to StreetEasy.com. Brokers attributed that increase to strong demand, limited inventory, low interest rates and a continued view by foreign investors of Manhattan as a safe haven.
That enthusiasm is expected to carry forward into the early part of summer, said Dottie Herman, the chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman.
Still, some listings continue to move more quickly than others. The demand for new apartments does not yet mean that sellers can name any price, said Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens Residential Sales.
''People have to realize, yes, sales are taking place, but they're taking place where prices are justified,'' Mr. Willkie said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PRICE CUTTING (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); TRENDS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); FORECLOSURE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



79 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Poor Land in Jail as Companies Add Huge Fees for Probation

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
CHILDERSBURG, Ala. -- Three years ago, Gina Ray, who is now 31 and unemployed, was fined $179 for speeding. She failed to show up at court (she says the ticket bore the wrong date), so her license was revoked.
When she was next pulled over, she was, of course, driving without a license. By then her fees added up to more than $1,500. Unable to pay, she was handed over to a private probation company and jailed -- charged an additional fee for each day behind bars.
For that driving offense, Ms. Ray has been locked up three times for a total of 40 days and owes $3,170, much of it to the probation company. Her story, in hardscrabble, rural Alabama, where Krispy Kreme promises that ''two can dine for $5.99,'' is not about innocence.
It is, rather, about the mushrooming of fines and fees levied by money-starved towns across the country and the for-profit businesses that administer the system. The result is that growing numbers of poor people, like Ms. Ray, are ending up jailed and in debt for minor infractions. 
''With so many towns economically strapped, there is growing pressure on the courts to bring in money rather than mete out justice,'' said Lisa W. Borden, a partner in Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz, a large law firm in Birmingham, Ala., who has spent a great deal of time on the issue. ''The companies they hire are aggressive. Those arrested are not told about the right to counsel or asked whether they are indigent or offered an alternative to fines and jail. There are real constitutional issues at stake.''
Half a century ago in a landmark case, the Supreme Court ruled that those accused of crimes had to be provided a lawyer if they could not afford one. But in misdemeanors, the right to counsel is rarely brought up, even though defendants can run the risk of jail. The probation companies promise revenue to the towns, while saying they also help offenders, and the defendants often end up lost in a legal Twilight Zone.
Here in Childersburg, where there is no public transportation, Ms. Ray has plenty of company in her plight. Richard Garrett has spent a total of 24 months in jail and owes $10,000, all for traffic and license violations that began a decade ago. A onetime employee of United States Steel, Mr. Garrett is suffering from health difficulties and is without work. William M. Dawson, a Birmingham lawyer and Democratic Party activist, has filed a lawsuit for Mr. Garrett and others against the local authorities and the probation company, Judicial Correction Services, which is based in Georgia.
''The Supreme Court has made clear that it is unconstitutional to jail people just because they can't pay a fine,'' Mr. Dawson said in an interview.
In Georgia, three dozen for-profit probation companies operate in hundreds of courts, and there have been similar lawsuits. In one, Randy Miller, 39, an Iraq war veteran who had lost his job, was jailed after failing to make child support payments of $860 a month. In another, Hills McGee, with a monthly income of $243 in veterans benefits, was charged with public drunkenness, assessed $270 by a court and put on probation through a private company. The company added a $15 enrollment fee and $39 in monthly fees. That put his total for a year above $700, which Mr. McGee, 53, struggled to meet before being jailed for failing to pay it all.
''These companies are bill collectors, but they are given the authority to say to someone that if he doesn't pay, he is going to jail,'' said John B. Long, a lawyer in Augusta, Ga., who is taking the issue to a federal appeals court this fall. ''There are things like garbage collection where private companies are O.K. No one's liberty is affected. The closer you get to locking someone up, the closer you get to a constitutional issue.''
The issue of using the courts to produce income has caught the attention of the country's legal establishment. A recent study by the nonpartisan Conference of State Court Administrators, ''Courts Are Not Revenue Centers,'' said that in traffic violations, ''court leaders face the greatest challenge in ensuring that fines, fees and surcharges are not simply an alternate form of taxation.''
J. Scott Vowell, the presiding judge of Alabama's 10th Judicial Circuit, said in an interview that his state's Legislature, like many across the country, was pressuring courts to produce revenue, and that some legislators even believed courts should be financially self-sufficient.
In a 2010 study, the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law examined the fee structure in the 15 states -- including California, Florida and Texas -- with the largest prison populations. It asserted: ''Many states are imposing new and often onerous 'user fees' on individuals with criminal convictions. Yet far from being easy money, these fees impose severe -- and often hidden -- costs on communities, taxpayers and indigent people convicted of crimes. They create new paths to prison for those unable to pay their debts and make it harder to find employment and housing as well as to meet child support obligations.''
Most of those fees are for felonies and do not involve private probation companies, which have so far been limited to chasing those guilty of misdemeanors. A decade or two ago, many states abandoned pursuing misdemeanor fees because it was time-consuming and costly. Companies like Judicial Correction Services saw an opportunity. They charge public authorities nothing and make their money by adding fees onto the bills of the defendants.
Stephen B. Bright, president of the Southern Center for Human Rights, who teaches at Yale Law School, said courts were increasingly using fees ''for such things as the retirement funds for various court officials, law enforcement functions such as police training and crime laboratories, victim assistance programs and even the court's computer system.'' He added, ''In one county in Pennsylvania, 26 different fees totaling $2,500 are assessed in addition to the fine.''
Mr. Dawson's Alabama lawsuit alleges that Judicial Correction Services does not discuss alternatives to fines or jail and that its training manual ''is devoid of any discussion of indigency or waiver of fees.''
In a joint telephone interview, two senior officials of Judicial Correction Services, Robert H. McMichael, its chief executive, and Kevin Egan, its chief marketing officer, rejected the lawsuit's accusations. They said that the company does try to help those in need, but that the authority to determine who is indigent rests with the court, not the company.
''We hear a lot of 'I can't pay the fee,' '' Mr. Egan said. ''It is not our job to figure that out. Only the judge can make that determination.'' Mr. Egan said his company had doubled the number of completed sentences where it is employed to more than two-thirds, from about one-third, and that this serves the company, the towns and the defendant. ''Our job is to keep people out of jail,'' he said. ''We have a financial interest in getting them to comply. If they don't pay, we don't get paid.''
Mr. Bright, of the Southern Center for Human Rights, said that with the private companies seeking a profit, with courts in need of income and with the most vulnerable caught up in the system, ''we end up balancing the budget on the backs of the poorest people in society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Garrett and Gina Ray were fined for traffic and license violations. They were handed off to a private probation company and jailed repeatedly after being unable to pay escalating fees. Mr. Garrett now owes $10,000, and Ms. Ray over $3,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARY NORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) MAP: Childersburg turned to the private sector for probation. (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PROBATION (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (77%); DRIVERS LICENSES (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); ARRESTS (75%); PRISONS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%)

COMPANY: BAKER DONELSON BEARMAN CALDWELL & BERKOWITZ PC (82%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (51%)

TICKER: X (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (87%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



80 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Political Scientists' Role

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Jacqueline Stevens (''Political Scientists Are Lousy Forecasters,'' Sunday Review, June 24) attacks a claim that few political scientists make. Forecasting is a very specialized field in political science, limited to predicting election outcomes, and the record in that field is impressive. But that is not what most political scientists do. 
Political science, like most social sciences, seeks explanation rather than prediction. Its aim is to explain puzzling phenomena by relating them to phenomena that are well understood. Much of science consists of trying to resolve puzzles in that way.
This effort deserves public support in the field of political science as much as it does in the field of economics or, indeed, high energy physics.
In the long run, our ability to resolve puzzles contributes to the survival of our civilization even if in the short run it does not help us predict what will happen tomorrow.
GERHARD LOEWENBERG Iowa City, June 24, 2012
The writer is professor emeritus of political science at the University of Iowa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL SCIENCE (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PHYSICS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



81 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Sees a Role as a Consultant

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The World Bank's new president, on his first day on the job, said on Monday that the institution would be open to offering technical assistance to crisis-plagued high-income countries like Greece.
''There are many situations in which what our member countries want most of all is our technical expertise,'' Jim Yong Kim, an American physician and global health expert, told reporters. ''There are so many sources of capital these days in the world that that's not going to be our role, but our role will be to provide technical assistance.'' 
In offering such assistance, the bank would not be disbursing loans or grants. Rather, it would act as a consultant, helping a government draft an infrastructure investment or poverty reduction plan, for instance.
Still, Dr. Kim said that the bank would remain focused on its core goal of eradicating poverty around the world. ''The primary mission, I think, of the World Bank in this crisis is to make sure that low- and middle-income countries are protected,'' he said, noting that the bank has invested more than $300 billion in poorer countries since the global conflagration hit.
''I will work with our clients and partners to ensure that we are creating a new economic firewall: one that protects people in developing countries against shocks,'' Dr. Kim said in a statement released on Monday. ''I know from my work in poor communities around the world that when a crisis hits and no safety net is in place, the effects can be devastating.''
Dr. Kim is taking office at a worrisome moment for the global economy. Nearly every region of the world is experiencing a slowdown. Big emerging-market countries that helped propel the world out of the global recession -- like China, India and Brazil -- have cooled off. High-income countries like Japan and the United States have only meager growth. And Europe remains plagued by high unemployment, nonexistent growth and heavy debt loads.
In a biannual global economic assessment released in June, the bank's economists warned of a ''sharp deterioration in financial conditions'' because of problems in the euro zone. It warned poor countries to brace themselves for any fallout, by cutting their debt exposure, for instance.
Dr. Kim expressed concern about the bleak global economic picture. But he said that he had been ''encouraged'' by the progress that Europe had made in the last two weeks, agreeing to focus on growth at the Group of 20 summit meeting and moving toward a closer banking union last week.
He said that the bank was well capitalized to help countries should the global slowdown transform into a global downturn.
Global health experts cheered the White House's nomination of Dr. Kim, a co-founder of the nonprofit Partners in Health and most recently the head of Dartmouth College. The Obama administration chose him in part because of his work as a practitioner in global development. Previous heads of the institution had been bankers, politicians or foreign policy eminences grises.
But some development experts criticized Washington's continued hold on the presidency of the major multilateral institution.
Dr. Kim was a candidate in the first-ever contested election for the spot -- with some countries throwing their support behind the Nigerian finance minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, or the Colombian central banker, Jose Antonio Ocampo. Still, the voting share of the United States and its allies on the board ensured Dr. Kim's selection.
Dr. Kim has not yet articulated whether or how he wants to refocus the World Bank, which has been criticized for taking on too many different types of projects. Some have speculated that the Obama administration's selection of Dr. Kim indicates that it wants the institution to emphasize helping the poorest countries or focus on public health.
''I'm going to take great interest in a wide variety of projects that we work on,'' Dr. Kim said. ''We are very much a client-driven organization. In other words, we have to respond to the priorities and the aspirations of our member countries.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Yong Kim, the World Bank president, said it might offer its expertise to high-income countries, as well as fight poverty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (88%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



82 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Partnership Formed to Keep Philadelphia Refinery Open

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -- The Philadelphia refinery, the oldest and largest refinery on the East Coast, will stay open as a result of a joint venture announced Monday by Sunoco and the global asset manager Carlyle Group. 
The Philadelphia refinery, which had struggled to make money as the price of imported crude oil rose, was scheduled to close in August. In April, Sunoco announced that it had entered into ''exclusive discussions'' with Carlyle about the plant, which has about 850 workers and produces 330,000 barrels a day.
In a statement, the companies said the joint venture, Philadelphia Energy Solutions, would retain the current refining jobs and create up to 200 more as the refinery is updated and expanded. Financial terms were not disclosed.
''This is the best possible outcome for everyone involved,'' Brian P. MacDonald, Sunoco's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. ''Existing jobs will be saved, new jobs will be created and new business opportunities will be given the chance to develop.''
Federal energy officials had warned that closing the refinery would lead to increases in gas prices in some parts of the Northeast. Labor unions pushed to keep the facility open, and many government officials became involved, including Gene Sperling, director of the president's National Economic Council, and Mayor Michael A. Nutter of Philadelphia.
Rodney S. Cohen, a managing director at Carlyle, said the company planned $200 million worth of capital improvements and would bring in a new leadership team.
One expected change would be to expand the facility's connection to oil and gas pipelines. The plans include a train-unloading facility capable of bringing in up to 140,000 barrels a day of domestic oil, particularly high-quality, low-sulfur crude from the Bakken formation in North Dakota, Carlyle officials said.
Carlyle said it also wanted to expand the use of Marcellus Shale natural gas in Pennsylvania as a lower-cost, lower-emission fuel while exploring the possibilities of producing natural gas liquids or other byproducts.
Under terms of the agreement, Sunoco would contribute its refinery assets to the joint venture in exchange for a nonoperating minority interest. Carlyle would have the majority interest and oversee day-to-day operations, officials said.
Gov. Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania said the project would get state support, including $25 million in grants, the opportunity to issue tax-exempt bonds and the possibility of a tax-free zone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (66%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); TAX LAW (60%)

COMPANY: SUNOCO INC (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: TOM CORBETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



83 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Filling The Skills Gap

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Frank Bruni is off today.

 BODY:
A man named Gerald Chertavian came by my office not long ago, and, by the time he left, I was filled with renewed appreciation for the potential of community colleges to help stem the decline of the middle class. There are few more urgent tasks.
Chertavian is not the president of a community college or even a teacher at one. Rather, he runs a program, Year Up, which he founded, that makes it possible for poor high school graduates to land good jobs. It does so, in part, by imparting important soft skills that the upper-middle-class take for granted, like how to interact with colleagues in an office setting. 
A second aspect of the program involves teaching marketable skills in such areas as computer support, say, or back-office work at financial firms. These are called middle-skill jobs; they require more than a high school education but less than a four-year baccalaureate degree. Thirty years ago, said Chertavian, middle-skill jobs didn't exist. ''There were jobs that required a college degree, and jobs that didn't. Now,'' he said, ''up to a third of all jobs are middle-skill jobs.'' Almost universally, companies complain that they can't find enough workers to fill those jobs.
As a result, Chertavian has had no trouble rounding up corporations like General Electric and Bank of America to give internships to his charges; if all goes well -- and it usually does -- they wind up with a well-paying job. The entry-level pay can be as much as $40,000 a year.
The trouble with programs like Chertavian's is that they are akin to pebbles being thrown in the ocean. He has identified a sweet spot in the economy -- matching motivated, but disadvantaged, young people with a genuine economic need. But Year Up, which operates in nine cities, can absorb only 1,400 students a year. What about the millions of others who don't have access to a program like that?
It was when I posed that question to Chertavian that he started talking about community colleges. He is a fierce believer in their transformative potential. All the students in Year Up are also required to be enrolled in a local community college, but, more recently, Chertavian has begun to affiliate more formally with community colleges. That would allow Year Up to reach many more students.
Most notably, it is about to begin operating at Miami Dade College, which has a staggering 174,000 students. Its president, Eduardo Padron, says that 90 percent of its students are minorities, 40 percent live in poverty and 60 percent require remedial education. Many are enrolled in four-year baccalaureate programs; though it remains primarily a community college, in recent years, it has begun offering four-year degrees. But most are not. They are looking to earn a certificate or an associate degree and acquire a skill that will lead to a good job.
''Community colleges are the great American invention in terms of education,'' Padron said at a recent panel discussion I attended in Aspen, Colo. Their raison d'etre has always been to help grease the wheels of social mobility. But, in their earlier incarnation, they were primarily seen as a passageway to a university degree. (They used to be called junior colleges, after all.) Now with the skills gap such a pressing problem -- and a high school education so clearly inadequate for the modern economy -- the task of teaching those skills is falling to community colleges. There really isn't another institution as well positioned to play that role.
I wish I could say that state legislatures were pouring resources into community colleges, but, of course, I can't. Many state governments have ravaged the budgets of their community college systems, just as they have for many state university systems. In Florida, said Padron, community colleges have seen their state support drop by 21 percent in three years. ''State support used to account for 75 percent of our budget,'' he said. ''Now it is only 45 percent.'' As a result, tuition at Miami Dade is $3,000 a year -- a lot of money for people of little means. Given what's at stake, it would be hard to imagine anything more shortsighted than paring back support for community colleges.
Nor can it be said that all community colleges have stepped up to this new role. In some states, such as Virginia and North Carolina, community colleges have become deeply connected with employers in the state. In others, they remain the stepchildren of the educational system. Graduation rates are low. Overcrowding is common.
''Yes, there are many institutions that need to do a much better job adapting to and connecting with labor markets,'' Chertavian wrote in a follow-up e-mail message to me. But he remains hopeful. ''They are the mechanism that creates pathways to get young people into the economy,'' he said.
Community colleges can be our salvation, if only we let them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); POVERTY RATES (60%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



84 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Republican Governor Of Florida Says State Won't Expand Medicaid

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In another sign of resistance to President Obama's health care overhaul, Gov. Rick Scott of Florida, a Republican, said Monday that his state would not expand its Medicaid program.
Florida is the largest state to say so firmly that it will take advantage of a new option granted by the Supreme Court decision on the health care law.
The 2010 law calls for a sweeping expansion of Medicaid, to add 17 million people to the rolls, accounting for half of all the uninsured people expected to gain coverage nationwide. 
''Florida will opt out of spending approximately $1.9 billion more taxpayer dollars required to implement a massive entitlement expansion of the Medicaid program,'' said Mr. Scott, a former health care executive.
More than one-fifth of Florida residents -- roughly 4 million of 19 million people -- lack health insurance.
Mr. Scott also rejected another provision of the new federal law, saying Florida would not set up a health insurance exchange, or a regulated market where people can shop for coverage.
The governor acknowledged that for three years, from 2014 to 2016, the federal government would pay all the costs of covering people newly eligible for Medicaid. But, he said, ''the burden increasingly shifts to Florida taxpayers in future years.''
Mr. Scott said Medicaid was ''growing three and a half times as fast as Florida's general revenue'' and was gobbling up money needed for education.
Obama administration officials said they were not worried by the rumblings among Republican officials in Florida and other states.
Obama aides predicted that all states would eventually expand Medicaid and set up exchanges when they realized the benefits.
''The vast majority of states will come in,'' Jacob J. Lew, the White House chief of staff, said Sunday on the ABC News program ''This Week.'' ''For those few that are slow to come in, they're going to have to answer to people why they're turning this down and why they're letting people go without coverage.''
Congress required states to expand Medicaid to cover nonelderly people with incomes less than or equal to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (up to $25,390 for a family of three). But the Supreme Court said that the change was optional, and that the federal government could not penalize recalcitrant states by withholding money they receive under the existing Medicaid program.
Republicans in Congress are encouraging continued state opposition to the federal law, which was upheld last week by the Supreme Court.
A group of Republican lawmakers -- 12 senators and 61 House members -- said Monday that they had sent a letter to governors urging them not to set up insurance exchanges.
It now appears that the federal government could be running the exchanges in one-third to half of all states in 2014, far more than lawmakers assumed when they passed the law.
Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, a Republican, said Monday that she would not set up an exchange because ''states have little meaningful flexibility under the Obama administration's concept of state-based exchanges.''
A Texas official welcomed the Supreme Court decision, saying it provided an opportunity for states to ''push back against'' the expansion of Medicaid.
''Medicaid already consumes a quarter of the state budget in Texas, and enrollment and costs would mushroom under the Affordable Care Act,'' said the official, Thomas M. Suehs, the executive commissioner of health and human services.
Miriam E. Harmatz, a lawyer at Florida Legal Services, said Mr. Scott's action was ''a terrible decision for our clients, who would have benefited from the expansion of Medicaid, and a shortsighted decision for the economy of the state,'' which would have benefited from an infusion of federal Medicaid money into the health care industry.
Bruce Rueben, president of the Florida Hospital Association, said he hoped Mr. Scott would reconsider and reverse his decision on Medicaid.
Deborah S. Bachrach, a former Medicaid director in New York, said, ''Many states will accept the Medicaid expansion, given that the federal government is paying all the costs in the short term and most of the costs in the long term.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Scott of Florida has expressed displeasure with the Supreme Court's ruling on the federal health care law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); APPEALS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JACK LEW (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



85 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Everything There Is Big, Stereotypes Included

BYLINE: By ERICA GRIEDER. 
Erica Grieder, the Southwest correspondent for The Economist, is working on a political history of Texas.

 BODY:
AS TEXAS GOES
How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda
By Gail Collins
267 pp. Liveright Publishing/W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95.
''Texas! Amazing, right?'' Gail Collins writes midway through her new book about the state. The reader who senses a touch of sarcasm would not be wrong. Texas is America's most controversial state, and particularly since Gov. Rick Perry's ill-fated bid for the Republican presidential nomination last year plenty of people have wanted to take it down a notch.
To its defenders Texas is an economic powerhouse, the only big state that weathered the recession with aplomb, a place where people from all over the world can still pull themselves up by their bootstraps. The critics argue that Texas has managed that by selling itself for parts; the state may have low taxes and lots of jobs, but at a serious cost to its schools, infrastructure and environment. 
Ms. Collins, a columnist for The New York Times, is among the critics. Her book, ''As Texas
Goes... ,'' pays particular attention to the state's staggering inequality, casual embrace of crony capitalism and creaky educational pipeline. These are problems for Texas, of course, but Ms. Collins's concern is that Texas itself is everyone's problem. ''Personally, I prefer to think that all Americans are in the same boat,'' she says. ''And Texas has a lot to do with where we're heading.''
Texas is big, that is, and growing, and powerful. Despite deep-rooted support for states' rights, Texans have rarely hesitated to lead, either by example or by wriggling into national office. Much of the book is devoted to how its influence has been realized; it was Texans who led America's push for financial deregulation, who engineered the passage of the No Child Left Behind law, and who entangled us in the occasional war.
A native of the great state of Ohio, Ms. Collins allows that she wasn't interested in Texas until recently. This is not a writer who's likely to have been stung by a fire ant recently, or to have followed directions that tell you to stay on the highway for the next 400 miles and turn left at the Dairy Queen. To get up to speed she hit the archives, visited the state and spoke to dozens of Texans -- politicians, demographers, activists and historians.
Such a process is bound to be patchy, and so the problem with this book is one that has dogged other outsiders' accounts: stereotypes about Texas are so strong that they may trump the record.
On the first page Ms. Collins quotes Mr. Perry quoting another governor, Sam Houston, at a 2009 Tea Party rally in Austin: ''Texas has yet to learn submission to any oppression, come from what source it may.'' This was the moment, she says, when she became fascinated with Texas. ''When Houston made that remark,'' she writes, ''he was definitely attempting to break away from the country to which Texas was then attached.''
He definitely was not. Houston -- who had also been the hero of the Battle of San Jacinto and president of the Republic of Texas -- was a leading advocate for the state's annexation during the nine years that the ramshackle republic was repeatedly rebuffed by Washington. After the annexation was finally muscled through a bitterly divided Congress, Houston became the only Southern governor to oppose secession and left the office rather than serving in the Confederacy, as Ms. Collins notes.
Houston was complaining that Texas's interests were getting short shrift in the wake of the Mexican-American War. His point wasn't that Texas might leave the United States because its rights were under attack. His point was that Texas had rights because it was part of the United States.
Mr. Perry might not have put it that way, but his argument was similar. Every time writers suggest that he was actually calling for secession, as Ms. Collins does, they're doing him a favor. He's been using the po-faced media as a punch line for years now.
Of course Texas is largely to blame for its own reputation. The uneasy intersection of sex and religion, for example, is a recurring theme in modern politics and an area where Texas has been generous to the nation's wags. Ms. Collins, who has a good eye for absurd details, recalls a painful 2010 exchange Mr. Perry had with Evan Smith, the editor of The Texas Tribune, about the state's support for abstinence-only sex education. Mr. Smith pressed the governor to explain why that was a good idea. ''I'm sorry, I'm going to tell you from my own personal life,'' the governor said, visibly glazing over. ''Abstinence works.''
As Ms. Collins says, Texas has one of the highest teenage birthrates in the country, and three of the four state-approved health textbooks never mention the word ''condom.'' It's possible, however, that Texas teenagers are nonetheless aware of what condoms are. According to 2009 data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 42 percent of sexually active teenagers in Texas reported that they didn't use a condom during their most recent sexual encounter. Around the enlightened nation the figure was not much better, at 39 percent. In any case, even in Texas, school districts are moving away from abstinence-only policies.
And if the larger point is to tackle the issue of teenage pregnancy, rather than tease Republicans, the Texas example does make clear that it would be worthwhile to look at demographics rather than just sex ed. The rate of teenage births in the United States, and Texas, has been declining for years, among all ethnic groups. Ms. Collins does touch on some of the state's economic and policy barriers to reproductive health care, but the more contentious parts of the picture turn out to be a distraction.
A needlessly ominous distraction at that. It sometimes seems like Ms. Collins is more impressed with Texas than Texas itself is, which is saying something. Yes, Texas is an important state, and worth keeping an eye on, even for people outside its sprawling borders. But in opting for the easy jokes, Ms. Collins misses the chance for a more substantive critique.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (67%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (67%); EDUCATION LAW (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); HISTORY (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); DEREGULATION (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: As Texas Goes: How the Lone Star State Hijacked the American Agenda (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



86 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Elects a New President

 BODY:
In 2000, Mexicans threw the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, out of office. The party had ruled for 71 years and built what some called a ''perfect dictatorship'' through corruption, repression and vote manipulation. On Sunday, unofficial election results showed the party was ascendant again with its presidential candidate, Enrique Pena Nieto, winning by a smaller margin than expected. 
Many voters clearly felt the need for change. Confidence in the conservative National Action Party, or PAN, of President Felipe Calderon has plummeted in the face of an army-led drug war that has killed about 60,000 people in the last five years, lackluster economic growth, poverty and continued pervasive corruption.
But there are serious questions about whether Mr. Pena Nieto can make the changes he has promised, and also about some of his prescriptions. Many Mexicans doubt that he can separate himself from the PRI's corrupt old guard and take on the near-monopolies in energy, telecommunications, finance, cement, food and television that backed the party's return to power. He has proposed opening Pemex, the government-owned oil monopoly, to some private investment. Other tax, labor, fiscal and education reforms are also badly needed.
Mr. Pena Nieto has sent mixed messages about the drug-related violence that threatens Mexico and border areas in the United States. He has promised to fight against drug trafficking and named a retired Colombian police chief as an adviser. At the same time, he has argued that the drug war is harming Mexican civilians more than the cartels. American officials worry that he may cut deals with the cartels despite his insistence that ''there will be no deals or truce with organized crime.''
The two countries need more effective strategies in the drug war. Mexico needs to professionalize the police force and make judicial reforms. Washington has to go beyond aiding the army. It is a scandal that at least 70 percent of the weapons recovered in Mexico's bloody drug war originate from the United States. Changing that will require the Obama administration and Congress to pursue stronger gun controls and to work to reduce demand.
With Mr. Pena Nieto's election, the PRI has a new chance to govern, but not with its past tactics. According to the Monday vote count, the PRI-led coalition in Congress seemed to have lost seats, and it will not have majority control. This time around, stronger institutions -- a more active Congress, a more independent Supreme Court, a more questioning media, a more vocal civil society -- could balance out the presidency and the PRI.
Mr. Pena Nieto has a chance to restore his party's reputation and do a lot of good for Mexico if he can deliver on his promises to make belated reforms, increase accountability and end the bloodshed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); CARTELS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (67%); EDUCATION REFORM (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); GUN CONTROL (60%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



87 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Romney, an Eye on Campaign, Plans a Trip to Israel

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, will visit Israel this summer to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other leaders, a senior aide to the prime minister confirmed on Monday evening.
Mr. Romney, who has pledged to ''do the opposite'' of the Obama administration on matters pertaining to Israel, is also expected to meet with Salam Fayyad, the prime minister of the Palestinian Authority; President Shimon Peres of Israel; the American ambassador, Daniel B. Shapiro; and leaders of the opposition Labor Party in Jerusalem. He plans to have at least one public event in a trip that will likely last less than two days.
''He's a strong friend of Israel and we'll be happy to meet with him,'' said Ron Dermer, Mr. Netanyahu's senior adviser, who worked with Republicans in the United States before immigrating here. ''We value strong bipartisan support for Israel and we're sure it will only deepen that.'' 
For Mr. Romney, the trip is an opportunity to appeal both to Jewish voters and donors, whose overwhelming support of President Obama has softened, according to some polls, and to evangelical Christians, whose trust he is still fighting to win. At the March conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobby known as Aipac, Mr. Romney vowed that Israel would be the destination of his first foreign trip as president, underscoring the fact that Mr. Obama has not visited here since his election, a sore spot among some Israel supporters.
Mr. Obama, too, came here as a presidential candidate, in July 2008 before his speech in Berlin. He met with Mr. Netanyahu -- then the leader of the opposition -- as well as Israel's prime minister, defense minister, Mr. Fayyad and Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority. He visited Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial and museum, and Sderot, the Israeli town near the border of the Gaza Strip that is the frequent target of missile attacks.
This will be Mr. Romney's fourth visit to Israel. He first came with his family on a Mormon Church trip, according to a campaign official, then served as a keynote speaker at the Herzliya Conference on security in 2007. In January 2011, he spent three days here during a swing that also included Afghanistan and Jordan.
Presidential candidates rarely leave the United States during the heat of the campaign; Mr. Romney, who was chief executive of the Olympic Games in Salt Lake City in 2002, also plans to attend the Olympic opening ceremonies in London, and it is yet unclear whether Israel will be tacked onto that trip or be scheduled separately.
While the visit could distract from the Republicans' main line of attack against Mr. Obama, the economy, it is an opportunity for Mr. Romney, who as a former governor has little foreign policy experience, to play the statesman.
He has repeatedly tried to paint himself as a closer friend of Israel than the president, who he has accused of ''throwing Israel under the bus,'' and as more hawkish on the Iranian nuclear program, which Israel sees as an existential threat.
''I understand that in Israel, geography is security,'' Mr. Romney said via satellite at the Aipac conference in March, drawing applause by promising to ''never call for a return to the indefensible'' borders before the 1967 war in which Israel captured East Jerusalem and the West Bank.
He also said that the Obama administration had ''visibly warmed to the Palestinian cause,'' and that he believed ''Israel's continued existence as a Jewish state is a vital national interest of the United States.''
Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu have had a rocky relationship. Early on, the administration insisted on a freeze of Jewish settlements in the West Bank. But last fall, Mr. Obama intervened to block the Palestinian Authority from obtaining recognition at the United Nations. They have differed somewhat in approach to Iran, but since a March meeting in the White House seem to have reached something of a detente.
In a statement, Ben LaBolt, an Obama campaign spokesman, said: ''Governor Romney has said he would do the opposite of what President Obama has done in our relations with Israel. Now he must specify how -- does that mean he would reverse President Obama's policies of sending Israel the largest security assistance packages in history? Does it mean he would let Israel stand alone at the United Nations, or that he would stop funding the Iron Dome system? Does it mean he would abandon the coalition working together to confront Iran's nuclear ambitions?''
Some Republicans have also tried to play up Mr. Romney's longstanding personal ties to Mr. Netanyahu -- the two men worked together in 1976 at the Boston Consulting Group. They are not close friends but have kept up ties through the years. Mr. Netanyahu offered Mr. Romney pointers on how to shrink government in Massachusetts, and Mr. Romney later counseled Mr. Netanyahu on which American officials to meet with as he tried to encourage pension funds to divest of Iranian businesses. On Super Tuesday, the prime minister gave the candidate a personal telephone briefing about Iran.
Mr. Dermer said the men would probably meet over a meal at the prime minister's residence, though details have not yet been decided.
''The prime minister meets Democratic and Republican officials alike,'' he said. ''I'm sure they want to broadcast a very strong relationship with Israel, and Israel wants to broadcast a very strong bipartisan relationship with both sides of the aisle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann, enjoyed Lake Winnipesaukee in Wolfeboro, N.H., on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Romney met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem in January 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISRAEL HADARI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); LOBBYING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOLOCAUST (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); GOVERNORS (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) UTAH, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



88 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: For Mexico's President-Elect, a Strategic Journey

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and KARLA ZABLUDOVSKY

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- He carried a briefcase in high school while his classmates were slinging backpacks. He rose up from a low-level functionary to become a powerful governor through the same attention to strategy he applies while playing chess. Enrique Pena Nieto, Mexico's president-elect, is as political an animal as they come, although he is an unknown quantity too, one with a smooth tongue and good looks even men compliment.
When his campaign was asked whom he considers his close friends, aides responded with a Davos dinner party-like list of political power brokers and opinion makers whom he had met in the past year. None said they knew him well, but all spoke favorably. A few, indeed, he had met months before at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland.
''He was interested in how others won in campaigns in other countries,'' said Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP Group, the world's largest advertising company, who was on the list and met Mr. Pena Nieto at Davos in January for a wide-ranging chat arranged by intermediaries. 
Now those political skills will face a crucial test as he answers the big question in Mexico: whether he represents the old ways of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, marked by cronyism, or a new, more humbled version of it, as he has reassured voters during the campaign.
At the same time, Washington is waiting to hear more about Mr. Pena Nieto's position on the drug war raging across Mexico. He has spoken of his desire to reduce the bloodshed that has characterized President Felipe Calderon's assault on traffickers, but he has also vowed to steer clear of the pacts with organized crime that were a part of the old era of the party, known as the PRI.
''The fight against crime will continue,'' he said Sunday night as early results put him ahead of his two main rivals. ''Yes, with a new strategy to reduce violence and protect, above all, the lives of Mexicans. In the face of organized crime, there will be neither negotiation, nor truce.''
The campaign has worked aggressively to rebut any impression he would go easy on drug cartels, quickly sending aides, for example, to meet with Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican, after he told a House hearing last month that PRI had turned a blind eye to the issue in the past.
For all his careful plotting, Mr. Pena Nieto had his share of slips, often when he veered from a script, and he focuses more on the delivery than on the message.
He is not one to deeply study issues and, in a campaign gaffe last year at a book fair, could not name three books that influenced him (and still could not in an interview with The New York Times six months later).
''He is not a policy wonk,'' said Javier Trevino, a party stalwart who managed his campaign in Nuevo Leon State.
But he relishes political tactics and is a passionate chess player who once delayed a strategy meeting to complete a match.
Years ago, when he was an unknown state official, Mr. Pena Nieto showed that no detail was too small for him in his climb up the political ladder, not even the not-so-minor matter of delivering escamoles, a dish of ant eggs considered a delicacy, 4,600 miles to the president of Argentina.
A delegation from Mexico State had decided to surprise President Carlos Menem with the dish, and it fell on Mr. Pena Nieto, who was back in Mexico, to get it down there, and quickly, no matter the customs hurdles.
''How he did it, I don't know,'' recalled Cesar Camacho, who was governor at the time. ''But they were on time.''
Washington insiders whom Mr. Pena Nieto met with during visits to the United States in recent months said he pumped them for details of the American presidential race, though he was careful not to betray a preference. He has not met President Obama, who called to congratulate him on Monday, but is said to have admired his 2008 campaign.
The PRI's own campaign tactics remain a source of ire, with allegations of fraud and spending violations; young people demonstrated Monday and the runner-up, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, said he would not concede and would challenge the results. With 99 percent of votes counted, Mr. Pena Nieto stood at 38 percent to Mr. Lopez Obrador's 32 percent, while Josefina Vazquez Mota, the incumbent party's candidate, had 25 percent.
Mr. Pena Nieto defends the PRI, which was unceremoniously dumped by voters in 2000, in the first real democratic elections here, ending 71 years of rule that had given the country political stability and lasting social programs but had enriched party cronies and stifled political dissent. The party so permeated government ranks and institutions, historians have written, that its control often extended to crime bosses.
Although he presents a youthful face, he has not shaken off the impression that he is a proxy for the old guard -- Carlos Salinas de Gortari, an unpopular former president, is said to be a backer -- and he learned politics at the knee of some of the party's most ardent stalwarts in Mexico State.
''He has drawn both sides of the PRI,'' said Andrew Selee, director of the Woodrow Wilson Center's Mexico Institute. ''He grew up in Toluca and was raised by the mother PRI of old, but to his credit he has reached out to the new generation.''
Mr. Pena Nieto has visited the United States in the past year to give speeches and reassure lawmakers that he will make a faithful partner in a ''new PRI.''
Unlike many recent Mexican presidents, Mr. Pena Nieto, who has a law degree from Universidad Panamericana and an M.B.A. from the Monterrey Technological Institute, did not study at an American university.
But he was among a group of several Mexican boys who attended a year of junior high school in 1979 to learn English at Denis Hall School, in Alfred, Me.
''Once he learned English, he became an honors student,'' said Brother Charles Thomas, the archivist for the Catholic school, now closed. ''Enrique, like his Mexican friends, was fluent by Christmas. He played for the school soccer team and was well liked by both the American students as well as the Mexicans.''
Mr. Pena Nieto still speaks some English, but generally sticks to Spanish.
More recently, he has made frequent trips to a luxury apartment in Miami, which the newspaper Reforma has said is owned by his wife, Angelica Rivera, a soap opera star on the country's biggest TV network, Televisa.
While he was governor of Mexico State, his marriage to Ms. Rivera in November 2010 was like a royal wedding. His first wife, Monica Pretelini Saenz, died in 2007 after a seizure. He has four children, including one from outside his marriages.
Mr. Pena Nieto, who turns 46 this month, was born in Atlacomulco, a small city about 55 miles northwest of Mexico City.
He was the eldest of four siblings in a middle-class family; his father, Gilberto Enrique Pena del Mazo, was an engineer for the electric company and his mother, Maria del Socorro Nieto, a schoolteacher.
People who knew him in his early years said he was fastidious in his dress and appearance and told teachers he planned to be governor of Mexico State.
''His group made a little fun of him'' for his naked political ambitions, said Jaime del Arenal, one of his undergraduate professors. ''That look he has today is the same look he had when he entered his studies.''
Mr. Pena Nieto has said he caught the political bug in elementary school, when he was picked to be a class leader. But he also has the lineage: He is related to four former state governors, including his predecessor as governor, Arturo Montiel Rojas, a cousin who gave him his political break.
He ran for governor in 2005, selected by Mr. Montiel, Mexican journalists have written.
He surged past rivals with the help of friendly coverage by Televisa. As governor and later as a presidential candidate, he bought millions of dollars in advertisements on the network; his opponents accused it of biased coverage in the presidential race, which executives have denied.
Not much is known of Mr. Pena Nieto's interests off the political stage, or even if he has many.
Ignacio Rodriguez Reyna, a Mexican journalist who wrote a profile of him for a book on the campaign, said that in quiet times the leader enjoys listening to Abba and Celine Dion (a frequent campaign song was a version of the disco hit ''Gloria'').
In the interview with The Times last month, he identified ''The Departed'' and ''J. Edgar,'' the J. Edgar Hoover biopic, as recent favorite movies.
As for other pastimes, he said: ''Right now, campaigning. I don't have another.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto, center, held a news conference in Mexico City on Monday. He has said he caught the political bug in elementary school.
 A protest by members of the Yo Soy 132 movement, which opposes Mr. Pena Nieto and has called his election fraudulent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); CARTELS (50%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (56%); WPP (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (92%); FELIPE CALDERON (59%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



89 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Airbus to Build Its First U.S. Factory in Alabama

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
MOBILE, Ala. -- Airbus, the European airplane maker, announced Monday that it would invest $600 million over the next five years to build an assembly line here for its popular A320 single-aisle jet -- its first factory in the United States.
The move into the heart of Boeing's home market is part of a long-term strategy by Airbus aimed at doubling its share of the world's largest market for 150-seat airplanes, which includes Boeing's top-selling 737. 
''This is the right move at the right time and in the right place for Airbus,'' said Fabrice Bregier, the new chief executive of Airbus. ''With this step, we will be the only genuine global player in the aerospace industry.''
The move follows about nine months of intense discussions within Airbus and its parent company, European Aeronautic Defense & Space, said several Airbus executives with knowledge of the project. The aerospace group is betting that U.S. airlines, many of which have large fleets of aging aircraft, will be enticed to consider an A320 that was made in America over the Boeing 737.
The plan calls for the construction of a plant capable of assembling 40 to 50 A320 jets a year by the end of 2017, according to these executives. Construction of the site -- which will build aircraft from prefabricated sections built at Airbus factories in Germany and France -- is set to begin next summer, with the first A320 assemblies beginning in 2015, Airbus said.
Within five years, Airbus expects to deliver four planes a month to U.S. airline customers, which currently represent around 15 percent of the company's order backlog. Alabama officials said the state would provide Airbus with more than $100 million in tax breaks and other incentives to support the project. The A320 plant is expected to create roughly 1,000 new jobs, a figure that includes direct Airbus employees as well as jobs with suppliers. Airbus and EADS currently employ around 1,000 people in the United States, including 200 engineers at an existing technical center in Mobile.
The plan to expand in the United States follows the opening of Airbus's first non-European assembly line in Tianjin, China, in 2008. That plant now produces 36 A320 planes a year for the Chinese market.
The expansion was being met with caution by labor unions representing Airbus's 56,000 employees in Germany, France, Britain and Spain. Company managers briefed union leaders at Airbus's two European assembly sites, in Hamburg and Toulouse, France, early Monday.
''We will be vigilant to make sure they are not robbing Europe to pay the United States,'' Gilbert Plo, a delegate of the French union C.F.T.C. to the company's central works council, told Reuters on Sunday.
During a news conference Monday in Mobile, Mr. Bregier said using workers in Alabama could eventually cost less, and give the company more labor flexibility, than operating factories in Europe. ''But it is not the main reason,'' he said. ''We are used to operating in several countries, and we will be integrating Mobile into that. We do not intend to put these sites in competition with one another.''
European governments, meanwhile, gave their blessing to the U.S. expansion last week. The board of EADS -- in which the French government controls a 15 percent stake -- had voted unanimously in support of the decision, company executives said.
The sharp drop in air travel that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, set off a steep downturn -- and several bankruptcies -- in the industry that led many airlines to postpone investments to modernize their fleets. The U.S. fleet of single-aisle planes is one of the world's oldest, with an average age of 13 years. That compares with an average age of eight years in Europe and six years in China.
After a meeting with Mr. Bregier on Friday, Peter Hintze, the parliamentary state secretary for aerospace at the German Ministry of Economics and Technology, said that establishing an industrial presence in the United States was ''the right decision'' for Airbus.
''I believe it will pay off for Germany,'' he was quoted by German news media as saying, adding: ''In the rivalry with Boeing, this is a genuine plus point for the Europeans.''
Boeing, for its part, has dismissed claims by Airbus and Alabama officials of the plant's economic impact, arguing that the numbers of new jobs that will be created ''pale in comparison to the thousands of U.S. jobs destroyed by illegal subsidies'' Airbus has received from European governments over the past three decades.
The United States and the European Union are locked in a trade dispute before the World Trade Organization alleging illegal government support to their respective aircraft industries. The W.T.O. has found that both Airbus and Boeing have received illegal support; both sides have appealed the trade body's findings.
North America is the world's biggest market for single-aisle planes. Airbus has said it expects jets of this type to represent around 26 percent of the volume of new aircraft sales over the next 20 years. Airbus has forecast demand for 19,200 new jets of all types, worth $1.4 trillion, by 2030.
Globally, Airbus and Boeing split the single-aisle market fairly evenly; but in the United States, Airbus currently holds a market share of around 17 percent.
Mr. Bregier predicted that closer proximity to its U.S. airline customers would quickly translate into new aircraft orders. ''If we have a stronger presence in America we can progressively target a 50 percent market share'' within the next two decades, he said.
The agreement to build an assembly line in Mobile is the culmination of a seven-year on-again, off-again courtship between Alabama officials and EADS. Back in 2005, EADS proposed building an assembly line for its larger A330 as part of a bid for a $35 billion U.S. Air Force contract for aerial fueling tankers. It was awarded to Boeing last year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); AIRLINES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (92%); EAD (MCE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (91%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (93%); CHINA (91%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



90 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Peaks, Troughs, and Crisis

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Iceland and the Baltics, again again. 

 BODY:
I'm in Madrid, doing 45 trillion interviews, so not blogging much. But I was alerted to a remarkably stupid attack on me over the subject of Iceland from the Council on Foreign Relations -- and I use that term advisedly.
The CFR people take me to task for measuring economic performance in Iceland and the Baltics relative to the pre-crisis peak, which they suggest is some kind of scam. Why not measure relative to the post-crisis trough, under which the Baltics look better?
Oh, boy. Economists have been studying business cycles for something like 90 years, and done comparisons to previous peaks all that time; apparently these guys don't know about any of that. So let's try this slowly.
First of all, we think of a recession as a period in which the economy falls below its potential; the natural way to gauge a recovery is to see how much of the lost ground has been regained.
Better yet, compare two hypothetical countries -- call them country I and country L. Both suffer from a severe economic setback, but country I does a better job of responding to the shock, so that output falls only 10 percent in I but 20 percent in L. Then both economies recover. In that recovery, output in L grows more from the trough than output in I -- but only because the country did so badly in the first place. Yet the CFR people would have us believe that L, not I, is the success story.
Or do a bit of history. The US economy grew 10.9, yes, 10.9 percent in 1934. The New Deal triumphant! Or maybe not. Real GDP was still about 20 percent below its 1929 level.
So by comparing output to the previous peak I'm doing the obvious, natural thing; the CFR alternative makes no sense.
Oh, and Ryan Avent takes on the other, earlier CFR argument that the Baltics have grown more since 2000. This is a different kind of confusion, mixing up long-run growth in potential with shortfalls below potential. Iceland was and is a rich country; the Baltics were poor countries playing catch-up, which isn't relevant either way to the crisis story.
One place where I do disagree with Ryan is in his desire to stop talking about Iceland. Yes, it's a small island exporting mainly fish and aluminum. But you take your natural experiments where you find them. (Milton Friedman made his original case for floating exchange rates in part by invoking the example of, believe it or not, Tangier). Iceland was the only European-periphery country that received huge capital inflows, then responded to crisis not with a grim determination to stay on or pegged to the euro, but by devaluing. In the process it demonstrated that devaluation is a lot easier than "internal devaluation", which is actually the main point.
Anyway, time to go off for 300 million more interviews.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVALUATION (86%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); EURO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND (93%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



91 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Expansion and Jobs

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Many governors may have to choose between containing unemployment and expanding Medicaid, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The coming Medicaid expansion will reduce employment, but last week's Supreme Court ruling could permit states to prevent that outcome.
The state-administered Medicaid program pays health care providers on behalf of low-income individuals and families. It is the largest antipoverty program, spending about $8,000 per beneficiary a year.
Unlike other major safety-net programs like unemployment insurance and food stamps, the Medicaid program has not significantly expanded its eligibility or average benefit in recent years. Some states have restricted Medicaid benefits in order to control costs. A number of states have expanded eligibility, but those expansions were small enough that nationwide Medicaid enrollment and inflation-adjusted Medicaid spending actually grew slightly less between 2007 and 2010 than did the number of Americans in poverty.
As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Medicaid enrollment and spending were expected to increase significantly in 2014, when the program will be made available to able-bodied adults with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level .
Full-time employment is a major reason that able-bodied adults would have incomes above 133 percent of the federal poverty level. If carried out, this expansion is expected to reduce full-time employment among able-bodied adults, because they would no longer need to be employed full time to obtain health insurance (previously they could pay out of pocket for health insurance when not employed full time, but that is a more expensive way to obtain health insurance).

Medicaid is a transfer, so it creates jobs in the sectors where it is spent, but it destroys jobs at the source of financing (for example, someone fails to buy a new car because he or she is lending money to the government to finance the expansion).
(The expansion could increase employment among the relatively small fraction of able-bodied adults who already earn less than the poverty line but would reduce employment among the much larger fraction who so far are at or above the poverty line, for a net employment reduction.)
In other words, by expanding subsidies for low-income people, we can expect more people to have low incomes.
The Supreme Court ruled last week that states do not have to expand their Medicaid programs, but instead could stick with the previous Medicaid eligibility rules and the federal financing that went with it. States therefore have a choice of depressing their employment rates by accepting the Medicaid expansion and the significant additional financing that goes with it, or forgoing the expansion and its employment-depressing effects.
Normally, I would guess that states would expand their programs. Maximizing employment should not be the only policy objective, especially when reduced employment comes with more resources from the federal government.
However, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is unpopular, and employment rates receive an extraordinary amount of attention in politics these days. State political leaders might turn down the additional federal dollars in order simultaneously to show their distaste for the law and to show that they are taking steps to raise employment in their states.
The governors of Florida and Wisconsin have already announced that their states would not expand Medicaid. If enough states did the same, both state and federal taxpayers could save a lot, and the nation might avoid another depressing force on its labor market.

        
Define 'Welfare State,' Please
        
The Unfunded Liabilities You Love
        
Determining the Level of Payments in Health Care
        
Testing for Need
        
The Money Flow From Households to Health Care Providers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); POOR POPULATION (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); POVERTY RATES (74%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; health; health care; health insurance; Medicaid; Medicare; Poverty; U.S. health care costs; Unemployment; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Supreme Court; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



92 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: A Liberal Arts Education, Made in China

BYLINE: ERIC ABRAHAMSEN


HIGHLIGHT: If China's education system is really going to be transformed, it will have to develop students' individual spirit -- and start from year one of primary school. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - No one, it seems, is pleased with China's educational system.
Chinese nationalists fret that students are graduating without the critical and creative skills necessary to compete globally. Foreign observers worry that heavy political indoctrination in schools is producing a new generation of Chinese nationalists. Chinese parents tear their hair out over the grueling exams that will largely determine their children's futures. And those children, as they graduate into the workplace and struggle to find jobs, grieve for entire childhoods largely sacrificed to preparing for exams.
Nearly everyone agrees on the problems: overemphasis on rote memorization, a top-down instructional style that crushes individuality and a near-total reliance on exams to evaluate progress. But educational reform is a fraught process in any country, China perhaps more than elsewhere.
A new 10-year reform program that went into effect in 2010 acknowledges these problems and advocates the loosening of state controls over education. The heavy lifting of educational reform, however, looks like it will be done by private entities: experimental middle schools or colleges with ties to foreign universities.
One particularly encouraging entrant into this field is Xing Wei College, established outside of Shanghai by Chen Weiming, an investor and graduate of the Harvard Business School.
Modeled explicitly after U.S.-style liberal arts colleges, Xing Wei aims to address many of the immediate shortcomings of Chinese higher education. Admission is based on essays and interviews as well as the almighty college entrance exam, and students are allowed to choose their own major rather than having one assigned to them.
When the college opens this autumn the student body is expected to comprise 30 percent foreign students and 70 percent local ones (instruction will be in English). The faculty is largely hired from American universities, and the curriculum reflects a liberal arts agenda, with courses on "Intercultural Communication" and "Social Problems in Global and Comparative Perspective," as well as critical thinking and debate.
Chen notes that he founded the school specifically to create an educational environment where students' creativity and individuality could flourish. And the $1,575 yearly tuition fee is within financial reach of many degree candidates.
Even these impressive goals, however, reveal some of the contradictions at the heart of Chinese educational reform. One major obstacle to progress is the old Soviet-borrowed concept of education as a means of producing workers for a socialist-style economy. Everyone, from reformers to educators, seems inclined to leave this concept behind, but old habits die hard. Present reforms are largely a more sophisticated restatement of the same old goal: encouraging creativity and individuality as a means of producing workers.
Xing Wei, too, embodies this utilitarian attitude: Chen cites Steve Jobs's biography and Kazuo Inamori's as inspirations for the school. The college's stated aim in borrowing Western educational models is to create students who can compete in a global employment marketplace.
Idealistic as it may sound, it would be nicer to think that students might someday be nurtured for their own sake, rather than as a means to achieving some social goal.
A second obstacle to reform, less often articulated, is the anxiety that stronger individuality will result in a weakening of social control -- traditionally another crucial role of education in China. Again, a college like Xing Wei can only scratch the surface: liberal it may be, but Marxist philosophy is still a required course. More important, individuality suffers from a young age: by the time a student is entering college, much of the damage has been done.
Xing Wei College is a great start. But if China's education system is really going to be transformed, the changes will have to go deeper, and start earlier. Instead of borrowing photographs of smiling Ivy League students, China will have to develop its own arguments for why strengthening the individual spirit is desirable. Then it will have to put those ideas into practice starting where they matter most: year one of primary school.

        
Chairman Mao, in Their Own Hand
        
More Potent Than Censorship
        
An Arms Race at Arm's Length
        
Tibetan Protests in Delhi
        
China's Rumor Mill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); TRENDS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) China; Colleges and Universities; Education; Education (k-12); Social Conditions and Trends; Education (K-12); Asia

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



93 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Long Goodbye and a Species' Quest for Self Control

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A professor focused on climate and sustainable development confronts the new oil abundance. 

 BODY:
Mick Womersley, a professor of human ecology at Unity College in Maine, has offered a provocative and powerful reaction to my post on new work pointing to the abundance of oil now that new methods have been developed to extract it from deposits that were previously too costly to tap.
You can read his "Your Dot" dispatch below. It's a very different reaction to the newly realized oil abundance than that of George Monbiot, the British environmental columnist, whose latest column is "We were wrong on peak oil. There's enough to fry us all."
I've been attracted to Womersley's work and ideas before (see "Home Energy Economics 101"). Womersley, along maintaining with blogs on sustainable living and his small farm, sends his students out into rural Maine communities to conduct energy audits and help cut energy bills for struggling families and retirees.
Here's his piece, which he titled "A Matter of Self-Control": 
The current oil and gas boom in continental North America poses a difficult policy question: How are we to reduce climate emissions in an era of continuing, and even increasing, oil and gas supplies? Most of us who worry about these things had admittedly been relying on "peak" oil to help in this long-term project. Now with the boom in domestic supply we are left to bemoan the use of hydraulic fracking and tar sands.
Former Senator Tim Wirth, quoted in Andy's "Fresh Look" piece, argues against this rush to judgment. The new supplies may provide "a window of time" to sort out our climate response. The new supplies are a "reality" climate thinkers must take into account.
My primary job is to teach undergraduate-level classes in climate mitigation, adaptation, and sustainability, and I've been thinking and teaching along similar lines for some years now. There's a chain of logic I've used to explore this situation in my writing and classes. It goes this way:
The first part of the chain is that we know that climate change is happening, we know what is most likely to happen, and we can both anticipate the pace of events and the pace of necessary mitigation and adaptation measures. There remains a good deal of uncertainty, and there's always the possibility that we hit some type of tipping point or threshold effect. But in general, we know enough to act, and can even begin to measure the pace of our actions.
The second part of the chain says that it's very unlikely that any action at all will take place in the absence of strong western democratic leadership. In the same way we wouldn't imagine that the world's various dictatorships and ruling would be the authors of an eventual solution, why would we imagine the Chinese Communist Party, or the United Russia party would be so nice as to solve the problem for us? Our primary hope be that the western democracies, led by the United States and Europe, will eventually lead the world to negotiate and implement a global policy.
(How long this takes will simply determine how much of the eventual policy mix will be for mitigation and how much for adaptation.)
It's become fashionable among younger and more radical activists I've met to link climate to capitalism and to express disdain for the western system. There's some overlap between the Occupy movement and the more radical climate campaigners. And who can blame them for rejecting the West, given the current polarization in the United States and European political scene and the lingering recession?
But I've read my George Orwell. And I spent the first half of the Thatcher decade in the British military and the second half in the American environmental counterculture. A rare and heady mix, to be sure, but what I eventually emerged with was this reluctant sense that despite all its horrible faults - My Lai and Guantanamo, water-boarding and drone strikes, not to mention the current American political polarization between Occupy and the Tea Party - empirically speaking, the West has the only viable governmental systems on the planet that comes even close to the practical democracy that will be needed to solve the problem.
I don't expect the process of surviving the coming climate decades to be tidy or pretty or even safe. The best analogy I can think of in American history is the ending of slavery. From the earliest Quaker abolitionist John Woolman in the 1700s to Barrack Obama in 2008 leads a thread of American thought that says that a black man or woman is equal under God and the law, and could even be President of the United States. But that thread leads through the bloody Civil War, Jim Crow, and the Civil Rights era. America muddled through, but it wasn't straightforward. We shouldn't expect climate change to be so, either. But without the West it would be much, much worse.
The final part of the chain is to ask what makes a strong West, a West that is capable of promoting democracy an eventual climate solution?
There are lots of answers to this question. Openness, transparency, and freedom of speech are a good start - where would our wonderfully vocal protesters on both sides of the Tea Party/Occupy spectrum be without these rights? Education is another answer, and how I make my living. We need to know more about the technology of mitigation and adaptation, but we also need to know the humanities bits too - the s as well as the . The more we know, the more we understand, the more likely we are to find ways to muddle through. The public remains woefully uneducated about climate risk, and we need to get on that. We also clearly need leadership, our current ones being unable to move beyond their own petty partisan squabbling. There are probably other equally important factors I haven't mentioned.
But we're certainly going to get there if the West becomes economically and/or militarily weak, and in that point is perhaps the cusp of Wirth's, and my own, argument. If, despite all the missed opportunities, betrayals, and abuses, the West remains humanity's best hope, then we'd better take a long hard look at the effect that energy dependence has had on Western economic and military power. For two generations the Western nations have been increasingly reliant on the Middle East and now Russia for oil and gas. This dependence led directly to the recessions of the 1970s and early 1980s, while the boom of the 1990s came only after the western intervention in Iraq during the First Gulf War. Even the 9/11 attacks were related to the placement of foreign forces in Saudi Arabia during and after that war. Oil and gas prop up the current Russian government, a dictatorship in all but name. Should we expect nice treatment from such people, were the shoe on the other foot? Environmentalists who call for unilateral climate emissions reductions must expect just that, as long as the western economy is so weak. I think this view over-optimistic, to say the least, if not almost child-like in term of navet.
If we want to help humanity survive climate change, we need the West to remain economically and militarily strong. The new Western supplies of oil and gas are a reprieve of sorts, a one-time chance to get our house in order before the coming decades of climate stress and strife. An increase in the North American regional Keynesian multiplier will, and probably already has occurred, just because we're buying our own energy, aiding recovery. The trick would be to stay in this habit. What we should - actually, must - spend this bounty on is developing the renewable and energy efficient replacements for coal, oil and gas supplies. We need to use it to outfit ourselves with the physical capital in efficient buildings and transport, solar panels, wind turbines, and so on, that will be needed when, as we must, we decide we don't need fossil fuels anymore, and we need to use the power and prestige it gives us to promote democracy around the world, but especially in Russia and China. If all we spend it on is another consumer bubble, then we'll have squandered ours, and humanity's, last best chance. We have perhaps twenty years to achieve this.
Some readers will argue that we can't afford to even begin to burn the new supplies, especially the tar sands, without risking the Venusian or Cretacean apocalypses mentioned above. It certainly seems reasonable to imagine we do lack the kind of self-control needed to use just enough of the shale oil, gas and tar to pay for the climate-and-democratic transition I describe, but I think this is a bit like the dieter who believes he must stop eating almost food to lose weight at all. Few such dieters achieve their goals. We know, more or less, what the impact of each unit of emissions will be, and can at least proceed intelligently, if not in complete control. It's probably a more exact science than dieting, although there is always that danger of a tipping point. The new gas supplies will most likely reduce, not increase, emissions, through replacing coal in electrical generation, a process that is already under way, even in the absence of a climate bill. That will be a great help. The new Environmental Protection Agency regulations in the pipeline will drive this process yet further.
If we don't have it already, we'd better develop that self-control, because the fossil sands and shales will always be there. If the West is too weak to lead, they will get used up. The Chinese are already making moves to grab Africa's resources. If we are weak, they will want ours too, by hook or crook.
Only a strong West could afford to set them aside.

        
More on Tar, Oil, Pipelines and Presidents
        
Gas Leaks on the Path to a Post-Fossil Future
        
Tallying the Price of Human Progress
        
On the Energy Gap and Climate Crisis
        
A Greenhouse Gas That Is Already a Commodity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); OIL SANDS (77%); WRITERS (75%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%) Climate Change; energy; fossil fuels; Global Warming; greenhouse gases; maine; oil; your dot; Colleges and Universities; Drilling and Boring; Education; Energy and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; consumption; environmental policy

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



94 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Counting the Power Failures

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: How much electric load was unplugged by the recent storms? About as much as it would take to serve the metropolitan areas of Pittsburgh and Dayton, Ohio, according to an informal calculation by PJM. 

 BODY:
 As my colleague John Schwartz reports in The Times, Friday night's storms left millions of people in sweaty darkness. Just how much electric load was unplugged?
About as much as it would take to serve the metropolitan areas of Pittsburgh and Dayton, Ohio, according to an informal calculation byPJM, the regional grid operator. (The letters used to stand for Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland, but the organization now manages the moment-to-moment supply of electricity for 60 million people in all or part of 13 states plus the District of Columbia.)
Paula DuPont-Kidd, a PJM spokeswoman, said that local losses of power had reduced demand by 5,000 to 6,000 megawatts. That's about as much as the output of 10 full-size coal plants. 
On Saturday, she said, peak demand had been expected to reach 133,000 megawatts. But because of the blackouts caused by damage to the distribution system and because lower-than-expected temperatures had air-conditioners working less hard, it rose to only 120,000 megawatts, Ms. DuPont-Kidd said.
Sluggishness in the economy, especially industry, has depressed the demand for power over all, and the grid has plenty of capacity this year, she noted. So far "the system hasn't been stressed'' in 2012, she said, and PJM has made no emergency appeals to customers to conserve energy. 
"Unfortunately, people are being forced to do that right now" all the same, Ms. DuPont-Kidd noted. Maryland, the District of Columbia and northern Virginia, along with parts of Ohio and Illinois, were the hardest hit by power losses, she said.
PJM estimated that on Saturday, four million customers were in the dark. (A customer could be anything from an apartment with a single resident to a multifamily building to a factory.) 
By contrast, Hurricane Irene took out about three million in 2011. 
None of this means much if it's your house that lost power. But if you are in the dark, you may not be reading this anyway.

        
For Excess Solar Flow, a Veg-O-Matic for Voltage
        
And the Winning App Is...
        
Will the Lights Stay On in Texas and New England?
        
Getting a Grip on the Grid
        
Reddy Kilowatt Works Up a Sweat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (69%); HURRICANES (67%); CONSUMPTION (66%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%); COAL INDUSTRY (54%) blackouts; electric load; energy consumption; grid; storms; transmission lines; Electric Light and Power; Power Outages and Blackouts; PJM Interconnection; Illinois; Maryland; Virginia; Washington (DC); Business; Fossil Fuels; Living

ORGANIZATION: PJM Interconnection

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); DAYTON, OH, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%) Illinois; Maryland; Virginia; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



95 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Schools for Soldiers

BYLINE: MICHAEL DAVID COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: How the Civil War helped create the American university system. 

 BODY:
By the first anniversary of the outbreak of the Civil War, Northerners had discovered how ill-prepared they were for a crisis. The peacetime Army had been tiny. Volunteers rallied to defend the Union, but what they brought in enthusiasm they lacked in experience. Many were too young to have fought in the Mexican War and, since most military academies were located in the South, few Northern youths had formal training in combat. To win the war, the Army had to create citizen-soldiers from scratch.
On July 2, 1862, Abraham Lincoln signed a bill designed to change that: the Morrill Land-Grant College Act, which offered federal financing to colleges that taught military tactics. When the next war began, its supporters believed, alumni of those colleges would be ready for battle. The law also required funded colleges to teach agriculture and engineering, thus preparing young men to serve their nation in both war and peace. 
Since the United States' founding, education had remained a local and state concern. Now, in the midst of the Civil War, the federal government began to play a major educational role. Indeed, while its requirements were responses to the country's security and economic needs, the act proved to be one of the most transformative pieces of legislation in American history, seeding the ground for scores of high-quality public colleges and universities around the country. 
The Morrill Act had been a long time coming. Justin Morrill, a Republican congressman from Vermont, had proposed it in 1857. He thought a network of colleges teaching scientific methods of farming would increase the country's agricultural output and encourage settlement of the West. So he introduced a bill to give federal land to each of the states, which would sell the land and use the proceeds to support colleges teaching agriculture, engineering and the liberal arts. States could award the money to either state or private colleges. Although the federal government had previously made a few land grants to aid in the founding of state colleges, this program would go far beyond any educational project it had attempted before.
Despite opposition from some Southerners (who opposed federal intrusion into state matters) and Westerners (who opposed giving Western federal land to Eastern states to sell), the bill passed Congress in 1858. But President James Buchanan, believing it unconstitutional, issued a veto. Lacking a two-thirds majority in Congress, Morrill had to wait for a new president. Lincoln, who before his election had expressed support for agricultural education, was just the man.
In December 1861 Morrill reintroduced his land-grant bill. This time, given the wartime context, he added the military-education requirement. In a speech the next June advocating the bill, he put special emphasis on that provision. Bemoaning the unreadiness of Northern men to fight the rebels a year earlier, he blamed politicians in Washington for having "long assumed that military discipline" was as "spontaneous" as patriotism. That assumption, he said, had cost many lives. Had Congress earlier passed a law like the one he now proposed, "The young men might have had more of fitness for their sphere of duties, whether on the farm, in the workshop, or in the battle-field." It was too late to start training for the Civil War, but Congress should pass the bill now so the country would be ready the next time disaster struck.
This time, Morrill succeeded; Congress approved the bill with large majorities and Lincoln signed it into law. But that was only the beginning. After the war, Congress followed the Morrill Act with laws expanding federal support of military training. In 1866 it authorized the dispatch of Army officers to colleges to teach military lessons, and in 1870 it authorized the loan of small arms and field artillery to colleges for use in those lessons. In less than a decade, the federal government had gone from having virtually no relationship with colleges to playing a direct role in their curriculum: it provided general financing, military professors and military supplies and underwrote instruction in agriculture, engineering, the liberal arts and especially military tactics.
Colleges, in the meantime, had introduced military lessons without any government assistance. Sometimes they did so at students' request. Barely a week after the attack on Fort Sumter in April 1861, Harvard students signed a petition asking the faculty to institute a military drill at the Massachusetts school. The faculty obliged and 352 young men signed up for the College Drill Club. Among them was Robert Todd Lincoln, son of the president.
Drilling was not confined to the North. South Carolina College students formed the College Cadets a month before Fort Sumter. When they heard of the impending battle, they rushed to Charleston to join the Confederates. Later in the war, Wesleyan Female College in Macon, Ga., even formed its young women into military companies that marched around town in paper hats with artificial guns. In wartime, military activities had become a part of college life.
After the war, colleges made use of the new laws. By 1879 the Morrill Act was supporting 43 land-grant colleges and the Army was supplying the legal maximum of 30 officer-professors. The University of Missouri, for example, took advantage of both federal programs: it welcomed Gen. Richard W. Johnson to the faculty to drill its young men in 1868 and opened its Agricultural and Mechanical College using Morrill Act money in 1870. In the 1880s, following Wesleyan's wartime precedent, it added an armed drill company for the women who recently had been admitted to the university.
The Morrill Act also enabled the creation of new colleges. New York's Cornell University opened in 1868 and Arkansas Industrial University opened in 1872 using income from land sales under the law. Both of these schools also brought in Army officers as military professors. 
The act had something of a knock-on effect as well. Neither Harvard nor South Carolina obtained federal support; nevertheless, as during the war, they diversified their curriculums to keep up with the times. Both introduced engineering courses, Harvard built an agricultural school and both taught at least limited military lessons, subjects that had become standard components of higher education. 
The federal government's role in education only grew. In 1867, with some Northern politicians attributing secession to poor education in the South, Congress created the Department of Education to keep watch on the country's schools; it quickly became America's central repository for educational statistics. Congress gradually expanded the officer-professor program and, in 1916, transformed it into the modern Reserve Officers' Training Corps. 
In time for the United States' entry into World War I in 1917, Justin Morrill had gotten his wish: civilian colleges were training men to defend the county's interests. The close link between higher education and the federal government, forged during and right after the Civil War, had become a key feature of both American defense policy and college campus life.

        
Politics in the Academy: The Same Old Song
        
What Is College For? (Part 2)
        
From the Playing Field to the Battlefield
        
Teaching Civil War History 2.0
        
Brothers in Arms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); HISTORY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); VETO (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICS (69%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%) Colleges and Universities; Education; Land-Grant Act; The Civil War; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Reserve Officers Training Corps; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: Reserve Officers Training Corps

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



96 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: The Many Facets of Robert Diamond

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Robert E. Diamond Jr. has been gaining headlines for nearly as long as he had been at Barclays. DealBook has rounded up some of his most prominent mentions in the press, both positive and negative. 

 BODY:
With the departure of Robert E. Diamond Jr. as Barclays' chief executive, the British press will lose one of its most valuable assets: a colorful financier with a knack for creating news.
An American, Mr. Diamond stood out within Britain's financial class. After all, he was an outspoken Yankee (though he was an avid fan of the Boston Red Sox) and a highly paid financier whose surname was irresistible to the Fleet Street press.
A born-and-bred New Englander -- native of Concord, Mass., graduate of Colby College in Maine and the University of Connecticut Business School -- he bounced around from Morgan Stanley to Credit Suisse to BZW, which eventually formed the basis of Barclays Capital. It was Mr. Diamond who quintupled Barclays' investment banking head count by 2008 and expanded its profitability.
That probably gave him license to cut up his office to enjoy one of his favorite pastimes. From "Too Big to Fail":
Diamond had been contentedly honing his putting skills in his office in the bank's corporate enclave in Canary Wharf, the booming financial district in East London known as the Square Mile, and a dozen golf balls were strewn about the hole he had cut into the carpet.
But he also adapted to his new home, rooting for the Chelsea soccer club and gaining British dual citizenship.
But he did not always get his way. When Mr. Diamond sought to buy an ailing Lehman Brothers in 2008 -- realizing a long-held dream of becoming a major Wall Street executive -- he ran into a series of roadblocks erected principally by British regulators.
Here's the "Too Big to Fail" account of Mr. Diamond's conversations shortly after learning of the issues:
Diamond immediately got off the phone and called Tim Geithner's office.
"I just heard," Diamond said, exasperated. "What happened?"
"You should talk to Hank," Geithner told him.
When he finally managed to reach Paulson, he said, somewhat curtly, "I want to tell you that it was really difficult for me to get a call from someone else well after you did this." He paused, trying to keep his voice level. "And what I've been told you said is very much against what I think the facts are, and I think I deserve an explanation."
When he hung up after hearing Paulson's account of the communications, Diamond was in turn deflated, furious and embarrassed. He was livid with Paulson and dismayed by the British government. How could they have led him so far only to quash the plan at the last moment?
At 12:23 p.m., Diamond tapped out a message on his BlackBerry to Bob Steel, who had been trying to set the deal up for six months:
But Mr. Diamond got his wish, buying the majority of Lehman's investment banking operations out of bankruptcy in September 2008. At the time, he thought himself the savior of a major financial firm and the creator of a giant new financial power based in London.
But his British compatriots did not always see it that way. Chief among their issues with him was his compensation, long suspected to be enormous. For years, he shied away from taking a seat on the Barclays board, hoping to avoid disclosure of his pay. 
Then came the disclosure in early 2010 that he had received cash and stock worth up to 60 million, even after waiving his 2009 bonus. 
In 2010, Peter Mandelson, the onetime Labour Party business secretary, memorably and scathingly deemed Mr. Diamond the "unacceptable face" of banking for his enormous remuneration. Lord Mandelson later told The Times of London:
"He's taken 63m not by building business or adding value or creating long-term economic strength, he has done so by deal-making and shuffling paper around."
British journalists cashed in on Mr. Diamond's name. Hadley Freeman, a columnist at The Guardian, was one of many who could not help but seize upon nominative determinism to mock the financier: 
There is nothing but cheer to be derived from this appointment. Seriously, what could possibly be better than the chief executive of one of Britain's biggest banks, a man who once received a bonus of 21m, having the name of Diamond? I'll tell you what: for Diamond's former job as chief executive of Barclays Capital to now be partly filled by someone called Rich Ricci. I'm sorry, is this a news story or a tale by Dickens?
Mr. Diamond initially sought to play down concerns about banker compensation. He told the Fox Business Network in July 2010: 
On the subject of bonuses and the Feinberg report out on Friday that showed bankers overpaid themselves even as the financial crisis hit, Mr. Diamond said it was time to "stop looking backwards at 2008 and start looking forward to 2010, 2011 and 2012."
Later stung by the backlash, Mr. Diamond attempted to take a softer, more deferential tone. Here is what he told The Telegraph about Barclays' compensation concerns in September 2010.
"That is why we have to be very sensitive to the timing and the public mood," Diamond said. "And sensitive to the fact that we have to balance what is right for the shareholder, what is right for our clients, what's right for the regulators, what's right for the communities we live in and what's right for our people. That's a balance we have to strike in everything we do, including remuneration."
A year later, he continued his conciliatory approach, saying in a speech at BBC Broadcasting House:
"First, we have to build a better understanding of how businesses and banks work together to generate economic growth," he said. "Second, we have to accept responsibility for what has gone wrong; finally, most importantly, we have to use the lessons learned to become better and more effective citizens."
By this week, before the bell tolled for Mr. Diamond, he had some final words for the firm he built up and would soon be forced to leave:
As I said at the start, I love Barclays. That is because of you; you make this a great place to work for me. It is my responsibility to make this a great place to work for you.
I do not accept the view that the behaviors revealed this week are representative of our culture. They are not.
But I do recognize that our culture, and that of the industry overall, needs to evolve. The financial crisis revealed that banks need to revisit the basis on which they operate, and how they add value to society.
We know that a small minority have let us down. We also know that we need to rebuild bonds of trust with the society we serve.
As it turns out, some of his children have inherited their father's outspokenness. Here is one of the more family friendly posts by his daughter, Nell, to Twitter in the wake of Mr. Diamond's troubles:
No one in the world I admire more than my dad. 16yrs building Barclays. Shame to see the mistakes of few tarnish the hard work of so many.
- Nell Diamond (@nelliediamond)3 Jul 12

        
Amid Shouts of Hecklers, Barclays' Board Apologizes to Shareholders
        
Barclays Pays Diamond a $10.6 Million Bonus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); BASEBALL (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CITIZENSHIP (53%); SOCCER (50%) Barclays; Executive Compensation; Lehman Brothers; Robert Diamond; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Barclays PLC; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%) Barclays PLC; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%) Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); MAINE, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



97 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: For 'Rocket Thrower' in Queens, Reinforcement at Last

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: A monument described by one critic as a "most lamentable monster'' has had a difficult time attracting benefactors. 

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, the Municipal Art Society opened a campaign to preserve 20 public sculptures. (I remember it as clearly as if I'd covered it myself.) The idea of the program, Adopt-a-Monument, was to entice benefactors into supporting specific artworks for which the city could no longer afford to care.
There was a needy monument for just about every philanthropic budget.
For $275,000, a donor could adopt the Heinrich Heine Fountain, "Die Lorelei," in Joyce Kilmer Park in the Bronx. Its white marble was turning a sugary consistency. Every surface was blanketed with graffiti. The mermaids at its base had lost their heads and arms to vandals. For $3,500, a donor could adopt "Still Hunt," a panther in Central Park, which needed cleaning, a new protective wax coat and a new tip for its bronze tail.
Nineteen of the 20 monuments were eventually adopted. The program was so successful that 16 more monuments were added, as were 15 public murals, under a companion drive called Adopt-a-Mural. 
But one adoptive prospect had yet to be fully financed until now.
That would be Donald DeLue's 43-foot-tall bronze "Rocket Thrower," on the grounds of the 1964-65 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens. It might be described as an icon of heroic, midcentury, monumental Neo-Classicism. It might also be described as a gargantuan fairgrounds tchotchke of homoerotic kitsch.
The rescue delay has not been without cost. The estimated adoption cost in 1987 was $28,750 (adjusted for inflation, nearly $60,000 to day). The cost is now about $115,000. 
"We really should have taken care of it right away," said Vin Cipolla, the president of the Municipal Art Society, a nonprofit organization that advocates better and stronger urban planning, design and preservation.
"The fact that this has not been considered a distinctive piece of work - in the consciousness of art-oriented, philanthropic New York - may be the greatest challenge," Mr. Cipolla said, being appropriately diplomatic.
Not a distinctive piece of work? To the contrary: John Canaday, the influential art critic of The New York Times, thought "Rocket Thrower" was distinctive. On April 25, 1964, he called it a "most lamentable monster" that made "Walt Disney look like Leonardo da Vinci."
The artist, Mr. Canaday said, had created an "absurdity that might be a satire of the kind of sculpture already discredited at the time of the 1939 fair." Unfortunately, the critic continued, this joke was destined to become "a permanent disfigurement." 
If the jealous heavens do not level 'The Rocket Thrower' with a bolt of lightning, a solution would be for some public-spirited citizen to pay for melting it down and putting it back in place. Whatever the shape of the resultant lump, it would be better than the shape the thing is in now.
Perhaps the Municipal Art Society would have been more successful raising money to melt down "Rocket Thrower" than to conserve it. But finally, an appreciative audience has begun to develop.
"You have to look at this artifact of the fair with the whole idea of man's entry into space," said Phyllis Samitz Cohen, the director of the Adopt-a-Monument and Adopt-a-Mural programs. "Rocket Thrower," set in the semicircular Court of the Astronauts, was unveiled when outer space promised to be the next frontier.
About halfway along the fair's grand axis, between the Unisphere and the Fountain of the Planets, "Rocket Thrower" was surrounded by international pavilions: Spain, Japan, the United Arab Republic and Polynesia - "A dance done with flaming knives and a chance to buy a pearl-bearing oyster are featured in South Seas huts."
If you know how to read the plan of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, you can begin to understand how many traces remain of this evocative intersection of technological prowess and cultural navet, this summing up of America in the early 1960s.
"The ghosts of it are still there," Ms. Cohen said.
The monument itself is a marvel of engineering, when you consider how enormous a load is being borne on such a slender, graceful arc. Even if the "bronze muscle man," as Mr. Canaday called him, is awkwardly modeled, it is remarkable how his asymmetrical form seems to balance so effortlessly. "It put me in awe," Ms. Cohen said. "There is some magic about this."
A restoration fund has finally come together. "Rocket Thrower" was awarded a $10,000 grant from the new Partners in Preservation program. About $11,000 has been contributed in small amounts. Marvin and Donna Schwartz have given $15,000. And $79,000 more is to be drawn from a $600,000 bequest to the Adopt-a-Monument program by George Trescher, a leading fund-raiser who died in 2003.
Tucker Ashworth and Paul Gunther, who worked for Mr. Trescher in the 1980s on behalf of the Municipal Art Society, gave form to the program. It was first called "Monumental Woes," referring to the fact that New York, still reeling from the fiscal crisis of the mid-70s, could scarcely afford to give public artwork the attention it needed. City agencies collaborate with the program.
Mr. Cipolla said the society was renewing its commitment to the adoption program through a committee headed by Ashton Hawkins, the former general counsel for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. "Resources have become only less available on the public side," he said.
The rehabilitation of the Lorelei fountain in 1999 inspired a relandscaping of Joyce Kilmer Park when the monument was moved to a position facing the Bronx County Courthouse, across East 161st Street, from the north end of the park. "That's the most profound restoration because it was the most ravaged monument," Ms. Cohen said.
The project cost far more than anticipated. It benefited from a $330,000 grant by the Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Foundation and more than $1 million from the city. The reward of that investment can be seen regularly, Ms. Cohen said.
"When people get married in the courthouse," she said, "they'll come out and have their pictures taken at the monument."

        
Exiled From Times Square, Rambunctious Sculptures Seek a New Home
        
Corona Park, 10:29 A.M.
        
No Debate: It's Lincoln and Douglass
        
Houdini Returns. (Of Course.)
        
Man Climbs 'Joie de Vivre' Sculpture in Zuccotti Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); CHARITIES (89%); VANDALISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PAINTING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%) Flushing-Meadows Corona Park; sculptures; World's Fair; Art; Monuments and Memorials (Structures); Municipal Art Society; Building Blocks

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Municipal Art Society; World's Fair

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



98 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Is Our Patriotism Moral?

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: The unique mission of the American project allows traditional patriotism and universal morality to co-exist. 

 BODY:
To my mind, the Fourth of July has a lot going for it compared with other holidays: great food without a lot of work, warm weather, no presents, and fireworks. And, in our house, at least, there's the special moment when we read out loud the Declaration of Independence and follow with a toast (American sparkling wine, of course), "To the United States of America!" And I have to force back tears of pride at being an American.
This is my own distinctive experience of what we call "patriotism," and I suspect that many Americans experience something similar, and acknowledge it in their own ways. Amid the frequent confusion, frustration and anger of our political disagreements, patriotism - a deep-seated love of our country - remains something that has the potential to bring us together, particularly at times of national crisis or triumph.
But within my own particular intellectual tribe of philosophers, patriotism is often regarded as a "problem," an emotion that many find hard to defend as morally appropriate. Of course, many Americans are uneasy with, even repelled by, certain expressions of patriotism - perhaps the obligatory flag-pins of politicians, the inanity of "freedom fries," the suggestion in the revised Pledge of Allegiance that atheists aren't patriotic, or even readings of the Declaration of Independence. But the philosophical problem of patriotism is not about whether or not certain expressions of patriotism are appropriate; it is about the moral defensibility of the attitude as such. (For a good survey of the philosophical issues see Igor Primoriz's Stanford Encyclopedia article.)
At the beginning of Plato's "Republic," Socrates asks the old man, Cephalus, what justice (doing the morally right thing) is, and Cephalus replies that it's helping your friends and harming your enemies. That was the answer among the ancient Greeks as well as many other traditional societies. Moral behavior was the way you treated those in your "in-group," as opposed to outsiders. 
Socrates questioned this ethical exclusivism, thus beginning a centuries-long argument that, by modern times, led most major moral philosophers (for example, Mill and Kant) to conclude that morality required an impartial, universal viewpoint that treated all human beings as equals. In other words, the "in-group" for morality is not any particular social group (family, city, nation) but humankind as a whole. This universal moral viewpoint seems to reject patriotism for "cosmopolitanism" -the view perhaps first formulated by Diogenes, who, when asked where he came from, replied that he was a citizen of the world.
Certainly, patriotism can take an explicitly amoral form: "My country, right or wrong." But even strong traditional patriots can accept moral limits on the means we use to advance the cause of our country. They may agree, for example, that it's wrong to threaten Canada with nuclear annihilation to obtain a more favorable trade agreement. 
But the moral problem for patriotism arises at a deeper level. Suppose the question is not about blatantly immoral means but simply about whether our country should flourish at the expense of another? Suppose, for example, that at some point Saudi Arabia, now allied with China, threatened to curtail our access to its oil, thereby significantly reducing our productivity and tipping the balance of world economic power to China. Imagine an American president who declined to oppose this action because he had concluded that, from a disinterested moral viewpoint, it was better for mankind as a whole. Even if we admired such a response, it's hard to think that it would express patriotic regard for the United States. 
Should we therefore conclude that patriotism is ultimately at odds with a moral viewpoint? There remains the option of denying that morality has the universal, all-inclusive nature modern philosophers think it has. Alasdair MacIntyre, for example, argues that morality is rooted in the life of a specific real community - a village, a city, a nation, with its idiosyncratic customs and history - and that, therefore, adherence to morality requires loyalty to such a community. Patriotism, on this view, is essential for living a morally good life. MacIntyre's argument (in his Lindley Lecture, "Is Patriotism a Virtue?") has provided the most powerful contemporary defense of a full-blooded patriotism. 
 It may seem, then, that we must either accept modern universalist ethics and reject patriotism as a basic moral virtue or accept patriotism along with MacIntyre's traditional localist morality. But perhaps, at least in the American context, there is a way of avoiding the dilemma. 
For what is the animating ideal of American patriotism if not the freedom of all persons, not just its own citizens? This is apparent in our Declaration, which bases its case for independence on the principle that governments exist to "secure the rights" of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" to which all persons are equally entitled. This principle is the avowed purpose of all our actions as a nation, and we may read our history as the story of our successes and failures in carrying out this principle. America, then, is the paradox of a local historical project that aims at universal liberation. Through this project, we have a way of combining traditional patriotism with universal morality.
This project has had many failures, most often when we forget that the freedom of a nation must always grow from its own historical roots. We cannot simply wage a war that rips up those roots and then transplant shoots from our own stock (American-style capitalism, political parties, our popular culture). We have also often forgotten that the liberation of our own citizens is by no means complete. But none of this alters the fact that our governments have often worked and our soldiers died not just for our own freedom but for the freedom of all nations. 
We are a MacIntyrean community that is still trying to live out a modern morality that seeks the freedom of everyone. I love America because I still believe that this sublime project is possible.

        
Stone Links: The Rise of Caf Philosophy
        
Is Philosophy Literature?
        
Stone Links: A Constellation of Philosophers
        
Reading and Guilty Pleasure
        
Stone Links: The Ethics of Ignorance (and Humor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); ETHICS (72%); CLASSICS (63%) Patriotism; Philosophy; Declaration of Independence (US); Independence Day (US) (July 4); The Stone

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



99 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A Chief With Flair Falls From His Perch

BYLINE: LANDON THOMAS JR. and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The resignation of Robert E. Diamond Jr. from his post as chief executive of Barclays was quite a downfall from the heights he had attained while leading the British bank. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Robert E. Diamond Jr., a fiercely competitive Wall Street executive who hated to lose, recognized late Monday night that he was losing.
Until then, the American-born chief executive of the British banking giant Barclays was convinced he could survive the rising calls for his ouster after accusations from regulators in Britain and the United States that Barclays had manipulated important global interest rates with the knowledge of senior management.
On Monday, the 60-year-old executive wrestled with the pressures confronting his bank from regulators and British politicians. Realizing that he had become a lightning rod, Mr. Diamond decided to resign, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the discussions were meant to be private.
"My motivation has always been to do what I believed to be in the best interests of Barclays," Mr. Diamond said in a statement on Tuesday. "The external pressure placed on Barclays has reached a level that risks damaging the franchise. I cannot let that happen."
People who know Mr. Diamond well say that because his wife and three children live in the United States, the idea of remaining in a city where he had become a public enemy of sorts had lost all appeal.
It was an abrupt downfall for a man who over two decades had built an investment banking powerhouse nearly from scratch at Barclays, a 322-year-old British bank previously known as an old-fashioned financial institution.
In every way, Mr. Diamond, who grew up near Boston but eventually became a British citizen, brought American flair to the stodgy world of British banking. Charming, with a gleaming smile, he was a relentless promoter of the Barclays brand, attaching it to golf outings, soccer leagues and even to London's new public bicycle rental system.
But his embrace of the American-style pay and bonus culture became one of his main vulnerabilities.
Mr. Diamond paid his people, from whom he demanded and usually got unstinting loyalty, extremely well - and he was very well rewarded himself.
Mr. Diamond was awarded 6.3 million, or $10.3 million, in pay and perks for last year. The pay of two of his top executives, Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci, has not been officially disclosed. All of them, including Chris Lucas, the chief financial officer, have said that they will give up their awards for 2011.
Many shareholders in Britain were offended by these compensation levels, as well as Mr. Diamond's practice of deploying significant financial resources to the riskier areas of the bank. At the shareholder meeting in April, Mr. Diamond faced a crowd of hecklers, some of whom dressed as eagles, reflecting the bank's logo.
And he also drew frequent rebukes from regulators and politicians for Barclays' numerous efforts to reduce its tax liabilities and those of its clients.
Despite his reputation as being as hard-charging as a trader, Mr. Diamond always saw himself as a builder of businesses. His stint early in his career as a bond trader on Wall Street at Morgan Stanley was relatively short. His hunger to design, build and administer investment banking operations - and instill a binding culture within them - drove his subsequent career.
Mr. Diamond is said to have believed deeply in the idea that a common culture underpinned a bank's success, and he spoke frequently of his "no jerks" policy - a reference to eliminating any bad apples in his bank.
But, the gloating e-mails from his traders who have been accused by American and British investigators of engaging in the interest rate deceptions suggest that a different type of culture prevailed among some of his bankers.
The son of teachers, Mr. Diamond was a business school professor at the University of Connecticut before taking his first job in banking in the 1970s, in the information technology department of Morgan Stanley. He soon rose to become a senior bond executive at that company.
In 1996, he came to London as an investment banker. Forced out of a senior job at Credit Suisse that same year, he was tapped by Barclays to run its small bond division.
Back then, old-line commercial banks like Barclays were eager to build more profitable banking operations that would trade derivatives, bonds and foreign exchange - activities for which London has emerged as a global trading hub.
Soon, Mr. Diamond was delivering most of Barclays' profits. His reputation as a seizer of opportunity was solidified when, after the cataclysmic collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, he arranged for Barclays to acquire the salvageable pieces of that bank for $1.75 billion. When he toured the trading floor of Lehman for the first time in September 2008, the loudspeaker blared "God Save the Queen."
Next to the Lehman acquisition, Mr. Diamond's other notable achievement was his securing of an investment lifeline from Middle East investors in 2008 that kept Barclays from having to accept government money, as other troubled banks in Britain had to take.
When John S. Varley retired as Barclays' chief executive in early 2011, Mr. Diamond was able to grab the prize he had longed for: the opportunity to run his own bank, one that ended last year with 1.5 trillion, or $2.3 trillion, in assets and 5.8 billion in pretax profits.
The problem, however, was that running a commercial bank in Britain in 2011 had become a largely political affair. After the global financial crisis and the subsequent economic slump in Britain, regulators, politicians and not least the governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn A. King, took aim at British banks deemed too reliant on risky trading profits - the very business that Mr. Diamond had created.
Mr. Diamond did his best to try to assuage skeptical British regulators and politicians. He cultivated ties with Peter Mandelson, the influential Labour politician who had earlier called Mr. Diamond "the unacceptable face of banking" in Britain. He maintained a close working relationship with Paul Tucker, the deputy governor of the Bank of England. In late 2008, he had a conversation with Mr. Tucker over the setting of Libor rates - the issue at the heart of the controversy.
But diplomatic outreach could not overcome disputes over his pay, embarrassing disclosures over taxes and ultimately a widely accepted view here that Barclays, with assets about the size of the British economy, was too risky for its own good - not to mention that of the country.
Speaking before a Parliamentary committee last year, Mr. Diamond declared that "a period of remorse and apology for banks" needed "to be over."
On Wednesday, when he testifies to Parliament about the Barclays debacle, he is expected to offer apologies, even as he defends himself and the bank.

        
Barclays C.E.O. Resigns as Bank Frames a Defense
        
Barclays Executives Are Said to Have Known of Low Rates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); GOLF (62%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); SOCCER (50%) Barclays PLC; Jerry del Missier; Lehman Brothers; Rich Ricci; Robert Diamond Jr.; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Executive Compensation; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



100 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Barclays C.E.O. Resigns as Bank Frames a Defense

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Ahead of a British parliamentary hearing, executives said they thought they had implicit approval from regulators to manipulate interest rates. 

 BODY:
When Barclays bank manipulated key interest rates to bolster profits during the 2008 financial crisis, senior executives said they were following a common practice that regulators implicitly approved, according to documents released by the bank and authorities.
But the illicit acts, which led to a $450 million penalty for the bank, claimed its biggest victims on Tuesday: Robert Diamond, the British bank's chief executive, and one of his top deputies, Jerry del Missier, the chief operating officer. The scrutiny is expected to grow on Wednesday, when Mr. Diamond appears before a British parliamentary committee.
Even as they resigned, Barclays published documents indicating that some executives thought they were responding to an implied directive from the Bank of England, Britain's central bank.
Barclays, in its defense, said that it not only advised the Bank of England and other British authorities about interest rate discrepancies across Wall Street, but also the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Wall Street firms weren't told to stop the practice, Barclays said.
The disclosures put a spotlight on the interaction between regulators and big banks over the setting of interest rates during the financial crisis, raising questions about what authorities knew about the practice.
Investigators cast some doubt on Barclays' view. The bank never explicitly told regulators that it was reporting false interest rates that amounted to manipulation, according to regulatory documents.
"Barclays is just one example of why we need a culture shift in the financial world - and that means all the way to the top," said Bart Chilton, a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the American regulator leading the investigation.
After the Barclays settlement, American and British authorities are now shifting their focus to a pattern of wrongdoing on Wall Street, pursuing action against more than 10 big banks scattered across the globe, including UBS, JPMorgan and Citigroup. Authorities suspect that big banks reported false rates throughout the crisis to squeeze out extra trading profits and mask their true financial health.
The Barclays case is the first blow in a series of potential actions against the banks that help set the London interbank offered rate, which is used to determine the borrowing costs for numerous financial products, including student loans, mortgages and credit cards. Libor and the other interbank rates are published daily, based on surveys from banks about the rates at which they could borrow money in the financial markets.
Amid the Barclays fallout, other British banks are now scrambling to settle with authorities, according to people with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. American regulators have set their sights on a large European institution, another person said.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is building several cases in piecemeal fashion, choosing at this point to mount evidence against each bank rather than unveil a single global settlement, according to the people. The next case is not expected to be imminent.
The agency pursued Barclays first, viewing it as a case study in Libor manipulation. The enforcement action hit all the flash points in the broad investigation, exposing a multiyear scheme touching nearly every layer of management and business practices across three continents.
Regulators accused the bank of lowering its Libor submissions to deflect concerns about its high borrowing costs amid the crisis. Mr. Diamond's top deputies sought rates in line with rival banks and directed employees not to put your "head above the parapet," according to regulatory filings.
Barclays was also accused of "aiding attempts by other banks to manipulate" interest rates, further underscoring the clubby nature of Wall Street. In some cases, bank employees coordinated with former colleagues who worked at rival firms as a way to manipulate the rates, according to the regulatory documents.
"This scandal is another indication of how the massive growth of the financial markets did not go hand-in-hand with any thought about how to control the trading activity," said Pete Hahn, a fellow at Cass Business School in London.
In building the case, regulators benefited from a series of brazen e-mails that outlined the scope of the scheme. At one point, a trader called a colleague a "superstar" for furthering the illicit actions. Another employee even acknowledged that the bank was submitting "patently false" rate information.
Barclays initially resisted scrutiny from the trading commission. The C.F.T.C., Barclays argued, was overstepping its authority when it opened an investigation in early 2008.
When that argument failed, Barclays switched gears, claiming it had briefed government officials. Over the course of a year, the bank discussed its Libor submissions 13 times with the British regulator, the Financial Services Authority, and 12 times with the Federal Reserve, according to documents Barclays made public on Tuesday ahead of Mr. Diamond's testimony.
In one call on April 2008, a Barclays manager acknowledged to the Financial Services Authority that the bank was understating its Libor submissions. "So, to the extent that, um, the Libors have been understated, are we guilty of being part of the pack? You could say we are," the Barclays manager said, according to regulatory documents.
"I would sort of express us maybe as not clean clean, but clean in principle."
Or, as one Barclays official told the British Bankers Associations, the organization that oversees Libor, "we're clean but we're dirty-clean, rather than clean-clean." Barclays made similar comments to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the documents say.
The back-and-forth illustrated the tangled web of relationships on Wall Street, where authorities and bankers maintain close ties. Despite the troubling acknowledgments from the bank, regulators didn't put an immediate halt to the practice. Some executives said they thought that regulators encouraged the actions.
In October 2008, Mr. Diamond received a call from a Bank of England official, Paul Tucker, who questioned why Barclays was submitting rates consistently higher than rivals, a sign of relatively poor health.
Mr. Diamond then e-mailed a top deputy about the conversation, saying that Mr. Tucker stated it "did not always need to be the case that we appeared as high as we have recently," according to documents the bank released on Tuesday. 
 The deputy, Mr. del Missier, then directed employees to keep the submissions lower, or at least in line with rivals. His actions, some regulators say, was owed to a "miscommunication," rather than instructions from Mr. Tucker.
The Financial Services Authority investigated Mr. del Missier's actions, but did not pursue a prosecution, Barclays said. The agency, however, did issue a rebuke of the bank's activities.
"The Libor scandal has caused a huge blow to the reputation of the banking industry," Adair Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, said in a speech on Tuesday.

        
Barclays' Ex-Chief Spreads the Blame in Rate-Rigging Scandal
        
A Chief With Flair Falls From His Perch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); FUTURES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%) Barclays PLC; Financial Services Authority; Jerry del Missier; del Missier, Jerry; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (84%) Barclays PLC; Financial Services Authority

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: del Missier, Jerry; Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



101 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Tries to Stem Fallout as Chief Executive Resigns

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Barclays is trying to stem the fallout from a rate-manipulation scandal, as its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., resigned abruptly on Tuesday. The chief operating officer, Jerry del Missier, also resigned. 

 BODY:
1:52 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON - Barclays is trying to quickly stem the fallout from a rate-manipulation scandal, as its chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., resigned abruptly on Tuesday.
Less than a week ago, the big bank agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations that it had tried to influence key interest rates for its own benefit, sparking a political firestorm in Britain.
Now, the scandal has claimed three Barclays executives: Mr. Diamond; Marcus Agius, the chairman; and Jerry del Missier, who was promoted to chief operating officer last month.
The resignations come as regulators in London and Washington are investigating whether big banks manipulated interest rates to their own advantage, aiming to increase profits and fend off questions about their financial health. Such benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, are essential to setting the lending rates for corporations and consumers. In the Barclays case, regulators accused the bank of lowering its Libor submissions to deflect concerns about its high borrowing costs.
While Mr. Diamond is stepping down, he will face continued scrutiny on Wednesday when he testifies before a British parliamentary committee. Local politicians are expected to question him about the actions within the bank that culminated in multimillion-dollar fines from the Justice Department and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the United States and the Financial Services Authority in Britain.
On Monday, Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain also announced a wide-ranging inquiry into the British banking sector, with the findings to be published by the end of the year. "We need to take action right across the board," he told Parliament.
The Serious Fraud Office of Britain also said on Monday that it might pursue criminal prosecutions in connection with the manipulation of Libor. British authorities, who continue to work with their overseas counterparts, will make a decision about the evidence gathered by the country's Financial Services Authority.
Mr. Diamond's resignation, which was effective immediately, came after mounting criticism of the bank's actions from politicians and shareholders. Mr. Diamond's decision to leave was made on Monday afternoon in response to this pressure, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the discussions were private. Mr. Diamond had wanted to avoid prolonging the public focus on the bank's past activities, the person added.
"My motivation has always been to do what I believed to be in the best interests of Barclays," Mr. Diamond said in a statement. "No decision over that period was as hard as the one that I make now to stand down as chief executive. The external pressure placed on Barclays has reached a level that risks damaging the franchise. I cannot let that happen."
Mr. del Missier resigned as chief operating officer on Tuesday with immediate effect. He was the co-president of Barclays Capital, the firm's investment banking unit, from 2005 to 2008, and become co-chief executive of corporate and investment banking at Barclays in 2009.
Mr. Agius, who resigned as chairman on Monday, will stay at the bank until a new chief executive has been found, and he will then step down, Barclays said in a statement. While the search is under way, he will head the executive committee, and will be supported by Michael Rake, the bank's deputy chairman.
Further resignations could be in the works.
Fresh details about the case show how Mr. Diamond and other senior executives played a role in the questionable actions and failed to prevent them, according to several people familiar with the details of the case.
Mr. Diamond's top deputies told employees in 2007 and 2008 to report artificially low rates in line with those of rivals in an effort to deflect scrutiny about the bank's health at the height of the financial crisis, according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.
Barclays declined to comment about the involvement of senior executives.
Mr. Diamond's resignation comes after the settlement that Barclays reached last week with American and British authorities. The deal is one result of a wide-ranging inquiry into how big banks set certain benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
Those rates are used to determine the costs of $350 trillion in financial products, including credit cards, mortgages and home loans. American and international regulators are still investigating several other banks, including HSBC, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup.
In a letter to Barclays employees on Monday, Mr. Diamond said he was "disappointed and angry" about the bank's past attempts to manipulate key interest rates.
"I am disappointed because many of these behaviors happened on my watch," he wrote.
The leadership changes at Barclays come after Mr. Diamond helped transform the firm's investment bank into a major player on Wall Street.
The American-born Mr. Diamond joined the British bank in the late 1990s, expanding the investment banking unit into new areas like derivatives and commodities trading.
Mr. Diamond, then the head of Barclays Capital, also extended the firm's presence in the United States in 2008 by acquiring the North American operations of Lehman Brothers at the height of the financial crisis.
Shares in Barclays rose as much as 4.8 percent during the day in London, but eventually finished down 0.8 percent by the end of trading on Tuesday.

        
Barclays Chief Shifts His Tone on Banks' Blame for Crisis
        
Barclays Pays Diamond a $10.6 Million Bonus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); EVIDENCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (70%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%) Barclays; Bob Diamond; Marcus Aguis; Robert Diamond; Robert E. Diamond Jr.; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Barclays PLC; London (England); Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Video

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (54%) Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: MARCUS AGIUS (73%); DAVID CAMERON (56%) Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



102 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: What the Barclays Settlement Means for Other Banks

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: For the other banks in the Libor investigation, the Barclays settlement provides a template for the type of cooperation the Justice Department expects, and the range of monetary penalties they may have to pay. 

 BODY:
The settlement by Barclays over accusations that it manipulated the benchmark London interbank offered rate, or Libor, is like the first crack of thunder signaling a coming storm; the question now is how big the storm will be. 
It has already claimed the bank's chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., who announced his resignation on Tuesday, and the potential for criminal prosecutions looks strong.
Barclays admitted to submitting false information at the behest of its traders to benefit pricing for derivatives, and later providing incorrect interest rates to counter media speculation about the bank's stability. The Justice Department did not require the bank to plead guilty to any crimes by allowing it to enter into a nonprosecution agreement, no doubt to avoid the potential consequences a criminal conviction would have.
 The bank also reached settlements with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Justice Department in the United States, and the Financial Services Authority of Britain, paying about $450 million in fines and civil penalties. 
Barclays was not the first bank to reach an agreement in the Libor investigation. In July 2011, UBS disclosed that it had received a grant of conditional immunity under a leniency program of the Justice Department's Antitrust Division, which allowed the first company to report violations to receive a free pass on any criminal prosecution. 
Unlike UBS, Barclays reached its settlement with the Justice Department's fraud section, a part of the criminal division, and not the antitrust division, indicating that federal prosecutors were looking at a wider range of potential violations than just price fixing. There is no leniency program for fraud cases, so other banks caught up in the case will have to reach a settlement involving an admission that they committed a crime.
The statement of facts released as part of the settlement recounts a number of internal Barclays e-mail messages about manipulating Libor. They could be the basis for prosecuting individual defendants underthe federal wire fraud statute, which carries a maximum term of 30 years in prison if a financial institution is affected by the violation.
The Libor investigation is likely to continue on two fronts in the coming months. First, the criminal investigation will focus on other banks and individuals that were contributors to Libor to determine their role in submitting false interest rate data for setting the benchmark.
The Libor U.S. dollar panel in 2007 had 16 banks, including Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. In a statement issued with the settlement, Lanny A. Breuer, the assistant attorney general for the criminal division, said Barclays had "substantially assisted the criminal division in our ongoing investigation of individuals and other financial institutions in this matter."
For the banks, the Barclays settlement provides a template for the type of cooperation the Justice Department expects, and the range of monetary penalties they may have to pay. A nonprosecution agreement is the most likely resolution because a criminal conviction can risk a bank's ability to operate in the United States, so prosecutors will want to avoid the "Arthur Andersen effect" of putting a large operation out of business.
The Justice Department will also want to hold individuals responsible for their roles in manipulating Libor if it can. While there have been a few civil cases arising from the financial crisis against large banks, including Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, prosecutions of individuals have been few and far between. 
The Libor case gives federal prosecutors a chance to go after executives who countenanced misconduct that resulted in abuse of one of the most important financial benchmarks in the world.
The second front will be private lawsuits against the banks for manipulating Libor and its counterparts, Euribor and Tibor, for European and Japanese interest rate benchmarks. Settlements with the Justice Department require an admission of misconduct, not the more typical resolution in civil enforcement actions that come without any acknowledgment of violations. Those admissions can prove to be quite useful to plaintiffs in pursuing their own cases.
Manipulating Libor is like poisoning the water supply for the world's financial system. Changing the rates by even a few basis points can have an enormous effect on a number of sectors, so there is a vast pool of potential victims who can seek compensation.
Two powerful tools in United States law for pursuing cases are the Sherman Antitrust Act and RICO - the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. Both allow for the award of triple damages for a violation, and in addition RICO allows the recovery of legal fees, which is music to the ears of the plaintiffs' class action bar.
RICO requires proof of a "pattern of racketeering activity" involving violations of federal or state law. One common basis for bringing a RICO action is to charge multiple violations of the wire fraud statute; the Barclays statement of facts can provide a nice starting point to pursue the case because of the numerous e-mails recounted there. As more banks reach settlements with the Justice Department, we can expect to see those incorporated into ever-larger RICO and antitrust complaints.
One benefit of pursuing a RICO case is that it allows a plaintiff to bring together a number of companies as defendants under the umbrella of a RICO "enterprise," which can be shown as an "association in fact" through which different banks acted together without any formal organization. If found to be part of such an enterprise, then each participant can be held liable for the entire amount of damages suffered by the plaintiffs. RICO can be a powerful lever to extract a settlement because of the risk of a crippling damages award if the case goes to a jury.
In February, Charles Schwab & Company filed an antitrust and RICO lawsuit against the banks contributing to Libor, claiming that they set the benchmark interest rate at an artificially low level. More lawsuits like this can be expected in the next few months as lawyers start circling the banks involved with setting Libor, cases that will receive a significant boost from the Justice Department if more settlements are announced.

        
Barclays Chief Faces Political Firestorm
        
Barclays Settles Regulators' Claims Over Manipulation of Key Rates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); FUTURES (91%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (75%); CARTELS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); EXECUTIVES (57%); RESIGNATIONS (57%) Barclays; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Financial Services Authority; Justice Department; Libor; Breuer, Lanny A; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Suits and Litigation; Barclays PLC; UBS A.G; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; UBS A.G|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (96%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (82%) Barclays PLC; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Financial Services Authority; Justice Department; UBS A.G

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; UBS A.G; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: Breuer, Lanny A; Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



103 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: What's in a Stadium Name? Often Trouble for a Company

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Barclays, whose name adorns a new arena in Brooklyn, seems to have fallen victim to an eerily common phenomenon of recent times: the stadium-naming curse. 

 BODY:
It was probably not on the list of warning signs that led regulators to uncover a rate-manipulation scandal at Barclays, but there's one red flag that nevertheless should not be overlooked: the stadium-naming curse.
The British bank, whose chief executive resigned on Tuesday after the company agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations that it tried to influence important borrowing rates, seems to have fallen victim to an eerily common phenomenon of the last decade or so. It secured the naming rights to a sports stadium, and then fell on hard times.
The curse has claimed a range of corporations, names like Enron, Adelphia, Trans World Airlines, Conseco, PSINet and, recently, American Airlines.
 The Barclays Center, part of the Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn, is scheduled to open in September as the new home of the Brooklyn Nets.
Barclays agreed to pay $400 million in early 2007 to put its name on the stadium for 20 years, a deal that put the lender in the company of celebrities like Jay-Z, an investor in the Nets. "People will be talking about the Barclays Center all the time, all year, for decades to come," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said at the time, according to The New York Times.
Around that time, according to the Justice Department, Barclays employees in London were submitting bogus figures in an effort to influence benchmark interest rates to benefit the bank's bottom line.
The stadium-naming jinx has been well documented. Enron Field in Houston was renamed Minute Maid Park after Enron's collapse. Adelphia Coliseum was the home of the Tennessee Titans before that company went bankrupt, and the Baltimore Ravens once played in PSINet Stadium. American Airlines, whose parent company declared bankruptcy last year, gives its name to the AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami.
An exception -- but up to a point, given its struggle to turn itself around -- has been Citigroup, which committed $400 million in 2006 for naming rights to the Mets stadium.

        
Once an Asset, Diamond's American Flair Became a Liability for Barclays
        
What's Next After the Barclays Settlement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); AIRLINES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); EXECUTIVES (57%) Barclays; Barclays Center; Stadiums and Arenas; Barclays Center (NYC); Barclays PLC; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (71%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays Center (NYC); Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CNO (NYSE) (56%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



104 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Advice From Chris Christie

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: He called a reporter an idiot, and suggested Mitt Romney should open himself up. 

 BODY:
Chris Christie, the popular New Jersey governor who acts like a belligerent 8th grader on a sugar high, is full of advice for other people, such as Mitt Romney, and reporters.
Mr. Christie doesn't like being questioned on a good day, and Saturday, due to a water emergency in Monmouth County, was not a good day. When a reporter asked him about his plans for a special legislative session, he got all Jersey Shore on him.
"Are you stupid? On topic! On topic! Next question," the governor shouted. He walked off a bit later, according to the Times account. But he wasn't totally unreasonable. The governor added that he was "sorry" -- "for the idiot over there."

I can understand why Mr. Christie got heated. After all, the reporter was switching the topic from collapsed water mains to something completely irrelevant - the economy.
Mr. Christie has vetoed yet another attempt by the New Jersey state legislature to raise taxes on the very rich (those earning more than $1 million a year, also known as Mr. Christie's donors) and lower them on the middle-class and working class residents of New Jersey who have been paying heavily for Mr. Christie's austerity program.
Mr. Christie seems to think that Mr. Romney could learn from his, shall we say, "unfiltered" manner. He's been trying to breathe some feistiness into Mr. Romney since the New Hampshire primary, where he was given to bounding onto the stage at Romney events and making a normally wooden candidate look stoney.
His latest advice to Mr. Romney is to open up more. In a rare example of understatement, Mr. Christie said in an interview that will air tonight on "Nightline" that Mr. Romney is "much more reserved" than he is.
"I think as time progresses in this campaign, you're going to see him open himself up more and more to the American people and let them see who Mitt Romney really is," he said. Mr. Christie says he's seen this real Mr. Romney, and he likes him a lot.
As for whether Mr. Christie has any plans to button up as Mr. Romney buttons down, the answer is no. "When someone acts stupid, I'm going to call him stupid," he said.
This post originally stated that there is a drought in New Jersey. Actually, the water emergency there is due to collapsed mains.

        
Opinion Report: Cutting Costs
        
Chris Christie's Tough Talk
        
'Family Values' Versus Family Values
        
Civil Rights Advance in New Jersey
        
Opinion Report: Pentagon Budget Cuts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DROUGHT (77%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (50%) Chris Christie; Christie, Christopher J

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%) Christie, Christopher J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



105 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: In West Virginia, Coal Means More, Party Less

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: West Virginia is a conservative state where Republicans win presidential elections and Democrats predominate in state government. That disconnect is partly explained by party loyalty and partly by the importance of coal in the state. 

 BODY:
Barring a truly shocking turn of events, Mitt Romney will win West Virginia's five electoral votes. The state is rural, culturally conservative and religious. Of the 50 states, West Virginia has the fifth highest share of gun owners, the third oldest median age and one of the least diverse and least educated populations -- all variables associated with Republican Party affiliation. After decades of Democratic dominance, West Virginia voted for the Republican candidate in the last three presidential elections.
Just like Georgia, the last state profiled in this series, West Virginia has gone from solid blue to solid red on presidential electoral maps. But unlike Georgia, West Virginia still elects Democrats in statewide races. Both of West Virginia's senators are Democrats, as is the state's governor. Democrats claims large majorities in the State Senate and the West Virginia House of Delegates. And Democrats still maintain almost a 2-1 registration edge over Republicans in the state.
How have Democrats maintained support in such a conservative state? And does the party's remaining strength signal that West Virginia might once again become competitive in presidential campaigns?
Part of the answer to the first question is lingering loyalty. "You can always find someone at a rally who will say, 'I would vote Republican, but my dad would kill me,'" Mr. Rupp said. The more fundamental answer, however, is that Democratic candidates in West Virginia often bear little resemblance to national Democrats. State Democrats tend to be more conservative on a range of issues. Moreover, they emphasize their independence from the national party. Just recently, Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin, Sen. Joe Manchin and Rep. Nick Rahall, all announced that they would not attend the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte.
The greatest sources of conflict between national and West Virginia Democrats are energy and environmental policies. Coal was the lifeblood of the state's economy for decades, and -- despite receding as an employer in the state -- is still an integral part of the West Virginia psyche (the state's flag features a farmer and coal miner). A pro-coal stance in West Virginia is as vital a component in electability as being from West Virginia.
It was Al Gore's perceived hostility to coal and mountaintop mining that helped George W. Bush carry the state in 2000, after it had voted Democratic in 14 of the 17 presidential elections since the Great Depression, when West Virginia began electing Democrats in earnest.
Since the 2000 election, as national Democrats have pursued policies to lower greenhouse gas emissions, West Virginia Democrats have had to work even harder to show their pro-coal bonafides. Mr. Manchin, for example, actually shot the 2007 cap-and-trade bill in a campaign commercial (as governor, he also sued the Environmental Protection Agency over limits on mountaintop mining).
But King Coal's power in the state may not last indefinitely. In 1948, 126,000 West Virginians worked in coalmines. In 2011, that number was 22,336.
As easily accessible coal seams have been depleted, the so-called "coal counties" in southern West Virginia have lost population. At the same time, less coal-centric areas of the state - the Washington D.C. exurbs in the eastern panhandle and the communities around Morgantown, where West Virginia University is located - have gained population, Mr. Plein said. The coal industry has also been hurt by a boom in cheap natural gas in the Marcellus Shale. About 2,000 coal mining jobs have been shed in just the last few months.
Many West Virginians are looking to other industries, such as tourism, to replace resource extraction as the state's economic backbone. Wal-Mart is currently the biggest employer in the state.
Still, the coal industry remains politically potent. Late last month, when West Virginia Senator Jay Rockefeller gave a floor speech in favor of an Obama administration rule that the coal industry opposes, it was interpreted as proof that Mr. Rockefeller was planning to retire.
The Bellwether
On Nov. 6, Election Day, those who are particularly impatient for West Virginia election results can look to Marshall County for clues. Part of West Virginia's northern panhandle, Marshall County -- like much of north West Virginia - is culturally and economically part of the Pittsburgh area. In the last three elections, Marshall voters have been a virtually perfect barometer of the statewide vote, matching it exactly in 2008 when both the state and county voted 53 percent to 43 percent for Senator John McCain.
The Bottom Line
The FiveThirtyEight model currently gives Mr. Obama just a 5 percent chance of winning in West Virginia. Mr. Romney is projected to expand on Senator John McCain's 2008 margin of victory.
Compounding the issue-specific rightward pull on state Democrats, there is also an absence of a leftward pull. While a state like Georgia has large urban and minority communities, which tend to elect fairly liberal Democrats, West Virginia is 94 percent white and rural. There just aren't that many liberal or progressive voters in West Virginia. In 2008, 48 percent of voters were Democrats, but just 18 percent of voters described themselves as liberal, according to exit polls.
The diminishing impact of coal as a political force in the state may be a hopeful sign for Democrats. But as long as there are major issues -- like energy -- where the positions of the national Democratic Party (and thus Democratic presidential candidates) are anathema in West Virginia, it is likely Republicans will continue to win the state in presidential elections.
The more immediate question is: will state-level races, where Democrats still dominate, begin to shift and match the state's Republican preference in presidential elections?
"You can't have a two-legged stool," Mr. Rupp said, "at some point West Virginia is going to change."

        
Presidential Geography: Georgia
        
Political Geography: Illinois
        
Political Geography: Mississippi
        
Political Geography: Alabama
        
In Washington Caucus, Expect the Unexpected

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); SURFACE MINING (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); COAL MINING (85%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (76%); GEOGRAPHY (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); EMISSIONS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); MINE WORKERS (66%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%) political geography; West Virginia; Bush, George W; Gore, Al; McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Rahall, Nick J II; Rockefeller, John D IV; Romney, Mitt; Tomblin, Earl Ray; Coal; Democratic National Convention; Mountaintop Removal Mining; Presidential Election of 2012; Environmental Protection Agency; Republican Party; University of West Virginia; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; West Virginia University; West Virginia Wesleyan College; Georgia; Marcellus Shale; Pittsburgh (Pa); Wal-Mart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE; Politics; Presidential Geography

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA (84%) Environmental Protection Agency; Republican Party; University of West Virginia; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; West Virginia University; West Virginia Wesleyan College

TICKER: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); NICK J RAHALL II (78%); EARL RAY TOMBLIN (78%); AL GORE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Bush, George W; Gore, Al; McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Rahall, Nick J II; Rockefeller, John D IV; Romney, Mitt; Tomblin, Earl Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Georgia; Marcellus Shale; Pittsburgh (Pa); West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



106 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Links for the Fourth

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What we're reading on America's 236th birthday. 

 BODY:
Just to start on an upbeat note: New York's excellent "Health Bucks" program at farmers markets; participants get an extra $2 worth of free produce for every $5 spent.
Josh Fox, the maker of the 2010 documentary "Gasland," has come out with a short follow-up film called "The Sky is Pink," which directly addresses New York's Gov. Andrew Cuomo's suggestion that there is such a thing as safe fracking. Watch it here.
This week in : One major contributor to obesity may be the increase in the amount of sugar in processed foods, especially with the rise of mass-produced, cheaper-than-cane-sugar high-fructose corn syrup in the 1970s. Of course, soda companies hope their "cause marketing" programs will distract from the sugar in their beverages by demonstrating the companies' roles as responsible corporate citizens who do good deeds. But in the meantime they are beginning to fight back against New York's Mayor Michael Bloomberg's proposal to ban large sugary drinks. Speaking of soda, here is a great piece from Mother Jones about the "evolution" of soda sizes from seven-ounce cups to buckets (and here is AlterNet's take on the history of supersizing). Meanwhile, the F.D.A. has approved the first weight-loss drug since 1999. Some "solution."
The Times' Stephanie Strom detailed Frito-Lay's recent efforts to increase market share in both high-end markets (with products like fancy potato chips), and "value" markets (with products like Taqueros, a cheaper tortilla chip). The company's strategy reflects the growing economic divide between the richest and the poorest.
According to astudy from Yale's Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity, cereal companies have improved the nutritional quality of most of the cereals that they market directly to children, but have increased advertising for many of their most unhealthy products, and not surprisingly, new research suggests that images of high calories foods stimulate cravings in the brain.
Summer food programs are exploring more effective ways to feed the estimated 19 million hungry kids in the United States. Meanwhile, in India, with insufficient storage facilities and inefficient distribution systems, vast amounts of wheat and rice are rotting in the fields.
How would you like to pay $28 for a head of cabbage? Or $104 for a 24-pack of bottled water? Or $64 for chicken wings? Families from Nunavut, in Northern Canada, where everything costs a fortune, have started a Facebook group called Feeding My Family, which draws attention to the exorbitant cost of food in remote places.
Financially struggling cities, transit systems and school districts around the country are trying to weather the economic downturn by selling advertisements, naming rights and sponsorships to raise money, paving the way for junk food ads on buses again - and fire trucks. Or even worse: in Brazil, Ind., KFC repaired fire hydrants while also branding them with the KFC and Fiery Grilled Wings logos.
In a new report, Food and Water Watch explores the growing relationship between the soy and factory fish farming industries. Soy has been praised by some as a sustainable alternative to feed made from smaller wild fish, but by causing fish to produce excess waste, soy has the potential to increase pollution in fish farming.
In Salon, two scientists debate whether eating local helps or hurts the planet, and whether "food miles" are a useful measure. (My take: it helps, and they're not).
The biotech giant Syngenta has been criminally charged for denying knowledge that its genetically modified Bt corn kills livestock. Meanwhile, Monsanto's genetically modified corn apparently isn't killing what it's supposed to kill: pests known as the western corn rootworm have been thriving on Monsanto's crop. Nevertheless, as Tom Philpott suggests, Congress has been very kind of late to the U.S. agricultural-biotech companies.
A new (and seemingly extensively researched) report called "GMO Myths and Truths" seeks to disprove the claims that genetically modified crops are safe, particularly effective and simply an extension of natural crop breeding. The American Medical Association doesn't think genetically modified foods need special labeling. Nine out of 10 Americans disagree.

        
Food Links for Flag Day
        
Links For the 1st of March
        
Limit Soda for Kids' Sake
        
Tax Day Procrastination Links
        
Live From the Cutting Room Floor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); SNACK FOOD MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); OBESITY (89%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (88%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); FAMILY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); POULTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (75%); NUTRITION (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); SNACK FOODS (74%); SOFT DRINKS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (68%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); DIETING (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%) AlterNet; American Medical Association; Andrew Cuomo; Feeding My Family; Food and Drug Administration; Food and Water Watch; Frito-Lay; Gasland; Josh Fox; Michael Bloomberg; Monsanto; Mother Jones; Nunavut; Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity; Syngenta; The Sky is Pink; Tom Philpott; Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M; Fox, Josh; Philpott, Tom; Strom, Stephanie; American Medical Assn; Frito-Lay Inc; Kentucky Fried Chicken; Monsanto Company; Syngenta A.G; Nunavut (Canada); Monsanto Company|MON|NYSE; Syngenta A.G|SYT|NYSE

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%) American Medical Assn; Food and Drug Administration; Frito-Lay Inc; Kentucky Fried Chicken; Monsanto Company; Mother Jones; Syngenta A.G

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%) Monsanto Company; MON; NYSE; Monsanto Company; MON; NYSE; Syngenta A.G; SYT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (90%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Cuomo, Andrew M; Fox, Josh; Philpott, Tom; Strom, Stephanie

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NUNAVUT, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%); INDIA (79%) Nunavut (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



107 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Vacation Reading

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Three books for Barack Obama to think over this summer. 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court has ruled, the 4th of July has arrived, the heat is sweltering, and the presidential candidates have been taking a few days off from the campaign trail - President Obama at Camp David, and Mitt Romney at his lake house in New Hampshire. But since no American vacation would be complete without a batch of summer reading, here are a few titles, old and new, that the president might profitably leaf through while he waits for the rest of the country to stop sweating and tune back in to politics. (His challenger is busy overseeing the Romney clan's annual regimen of sports and games - a hypercompetitive affair known as the "Romney Olympics" - so I'll save his reading list for next week.)
First, as he tries to put his first term in context, the president could benefit from the historical perspective provided by Jonathan Rauch's "Government's End: Why Washington Stopped Working." Originally published in the early 1990s and then revised and reissued after the Gingrich Revolution petered out, the book is a dense and depressing look at how and why the modern administrative state resists attempts to overhaul it.
Rauch's arguments apply to reformers in both parties, but they have a particular relevance for the current president, who inspired sky-high, New Deal 2.0 expectations and then struggled mightily to live up to Franklin Delano Roosevelt's example. Obama-era liberalism, Rauch's book suggests, is a victim of the Democratic Party's past success: The programs and bureaucracies that were created in liberalism's heroic age are precisely what make it impossible to bring that heroic age around again. The system is too complicated, the government has too many stakeholders and its various clients too much power, and would-be revolutionaries end up thwarted, corrupted, or (all-too-frequently) both.
"In a society dense with professional lobbies," Rauch writes, "F.D.R.'s brand of experimental central government cannot exist." Obama would no doubt cite some of his legislative feats as evidence to the contrary. But he should turn to "Government's End" if he wants to understand why even his victories feel compromised, and why he's achieved less than so many of his supporters hoped.
To reckon with a more specific instance where those hopes have fallen somewhat short, he should turn to last year's "Railroaded: The Transcontinentals and the Making of Modern America," by Richard White. One of the president's preferred themes is the idea that government "investment," broadly defined, has been crucial to America's economic success. And the transcontinental railroad is one of his favorite examples of this kind of domestic nation-building, consistently invoked in presidential speeches as an example of the good old days when even Republicans (Abraham Lincoln, in this case) supported industrial policy.
But White's new history of that endeavor - written from a left-wing, muckraking perspective - tells a rather darker story, rife with corruption, back-room dealing, and private investors using public subsidies to line their pockets and enrich their allies. The federal government's railroad investments, the book strongly implies, had a little more in common with contemporary follies like Solyndra than the president's mythmaking suggests.
It's not an account that will woo Obama away from his faith in green jobs and high-speed rail, necessarily - but at the very least it should unsettle that faith a little.
Finally, speaking of faith, a president who chose to start a fight over religious liberty with the Roman Catholic Church might profit from reading 2010's "American Grace: How Religion Divides and Unites Us," in which the sociologists Robert Putnam and David Campbell examine the ways in which religious practice tends to make people better neighbors and citizens.
Putnam and Campbell are not writing about religious freedom per se. But one of their major themes is the extent to which both individuals and society benefit, not from belief alone, but from faith communities in all their myriad forms. This suggests an implicit perspective on what the Bill of Rights means when it protects not just freedom of conscience, but the free of religion. The First Amendment isn't just there to defend private conviction. It's there to protect public and communal expressions of faith as well.
The controversy over the contraception-sterilization-morning-after-pill mandate erupted because the Obama White House decided to take an extremely narrow view of this protection, crafting a religious exemption that would apply to houses of worship but not to religious hospitals, charities and schools.
But the "grace" that Putnam and Campbell are describing works precisely because it isn't confined to the churches where it's nurtured: It spills out of the pews and into society as a whole. And there are worse things President Obama could do with his summer vacation than ponder that reality, and then shorten by one the list of controversial policies that he'll need to defend this fall.

        
Seven Consequences of the Health Care Ruling
        
Campaigns and Crankiness
        
Romney the Cautious
        
How Racist Are We? Ask Google
        
Obama and the New Freedom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (66%) Barack Obama; David Campbell; Health Care Reform; Jonathan Rauch; presidential election of 2012; Railroads; Richard White; Robert Putnam; summer reading; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



108 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: In Rwanda, Health Care Coverage That Eludes the U.S.

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: After the 1994 massacre, Rwanda built a health care system that includes everyone. The United States should take note. 

 BODY:
Last week's Supreme Court decision upholding of the constitutionality of President Obama's health care law moves the United States closer to the goal of health coverage for all. All other developed countries have it. But so do some developing nations - Brazil, Thailand, Chile. These countries are mostly middle income. But one country on the list is among the poorest of the poor: Rwanda.
The point is not that Americans should envy Rwanda's health system - far from it. But Rwanda's experience illustrates the value of universal health insurance. "Its health gains in the last decade are among the most dramatic the world has seen in the last 50 years," said Peter Drobac, the director in Rwanda for the Boston-based Partners in Health, which works extensively with the Rwandan health system.
It couldn't have happened without health insurance. 
Rwanda is known, of course, for the 1994 genocide that killed 800,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutu. Since 1994, the country has been ruled by Paul Kagame, at first as de facto leader and, since 2000, as president. Kagame runs a repressive regime that equates criticism with treason; opposition journalists or politicians in Rwanda have disappeared or died mysteriously.
But Kagame is also widely admired as the most effective leader in Africa. A country in ashes 18 years ago is now safe and clean. It is one of the least corrupt countries in Africa. Per capita income has tripled - although the fact that it is now only $550 a year tells you how destitute Rwanda was.
Its most impressive gains, however, have been in health. AIDS has been cutting life expectancies in Africa and is widespread in Rwanda. Yet life expectancy at birth in Rwanda has increased from 48 to 58 - in the last 10 years. Deaths of children under 5 have dropped by half in five years; malaria deaths have dropped by roughly two-thirds. "Of all countries in Africa Rwanda is probably getting the closest to having health for all, health access for all," said Josh Ruxin, a longtime resident of Rwanda who is the founder of the Access Project, a Rwandan-run health program.
One key reason that Rwandans are so much healthier today is the spread of health insurance. In 1999, Rwanda's health facilities sat unused, as the vast majority of people couldn't afford them. In response, the Health Ministry began a pilot project of health insurance in three districts. In 2004, the program began to spread across the nation. Now health insurance - called Mutuelle de Sant - is nearly universal. Andrew Makaka, who manages the health financing unit at the Ministry of Health, said that only 4 percent of Rwandans are uninsured. 
Mutuelle is a community system - premiums go into a local risk pool and are administered by communities. Until last year, Mutuelle's premiums were about two dollars a year. This system turned out to be untenable - even two dollars a year was too much for a lot of people. (If you are a rural farmer with an income of some $150 a year, you have to spend every penny on food.)
Last year Mutuelle adopted a sliding scale. For the wealthiest, premiums essentially quadrupled, to about $8 a year. Each visit to a clinic has a co-pay of about 33 cents. If you need to go to the hospital, you pay a tenth of your hospital bill.
But now the poorest - as judged by their communities - pay nothing. The Health Ministry says that the poorest 25 percent of Rwandans get free care. (There is great pressure to over-report success in Rwanda, so this statistic, like others from the ministry, may be slightly exaggerated.)
Mutuelle is one of many changes in Rwanda's health system. A decade ago local clinics were routinely padlocked - patients had to go search out nurses in the village. Nor was there equipment or medicine. A largely rural country of more than eight million people had only about 500 doctors, and almost all were in cities.
Now there is a well-functioning national network of thousands of community health workers at the village level. There are hundreds of clinics, all with basic equipment and a full cupboard of essential medicines. Each of Rwanda's 30 districts has a hospital, with at minimum 15 doctors, offering basic surgical services. In three very poor districts, Partners in Health has worked with the government to reconstruct the health system from the ground up, including building three hospitals. The newest, Butaro Hospital, has been called the best in central Africa.
Partners in Health has gradually moved from delivering health services to supporting the public health system as it gets stronger. "They don't need our help figuring out how to take care of malaria and TB," said Drobac. "We can focus on gaps like neonatology."
Partners in Health is also introducing innovations - it is starting Rwanda's first cancer center - and training, helping to coordinate a program that brings nurses and specialists from 18 American universities to Rwanda to train doctors and nurses.
These improvements have lifted Rwanda's health system well above what most countries in Africa have. But it is the Mutuelle system that allows this care to reach all Rwandans, instead of a small percentage.
A measure of Mutuelle's success is a tremendous increase in the use of health care facilities. Drobac said that 80 percent of people in need of AIDS treatment are getting it - a figure in Africa rivaled only by Botswana, which is 20 times richer than Rwanda. Hospital utilization rates have tripled, said Makaka. Five years ago, when giving birth in a health center cost around $25, only 20 percent of women did so. Now that it is 33 cents, 70 percent do - a big reason that deaths of mothers and children have dropped so precipitously.
Malaria - a major killer of children - is also now treated. "People were waiting for a long time to go and access care because it was very expensive," said Makaka. A clinic visit before was 5,000 francs - about $8.30. "By the time they accessed care malaria became so severe some lost their lives or became disabled." Today, malaria is usually diagnosed by a community health worker. She can give the first dose of an effective medicine right away, then send the patient to a health clinic for a visit that will cost a maximum of 33 cents.
The increase in clients and the payments from Mutuelle they bring has transformed hospitals. Without income, hospitals couldn't pay doctors or buy equipment. Now that hospitals can pay, doctors and nurses are moving from cities to the countryside. "Before there was a marked concentration in cities," said Makaka. "Now there's equitable distribution across the nation."
In most poor countries - and in the United States - health disasters are a leading cause of a family's decline into poverty, but not for Rwandans. "It gives relief to people knowing that if you get sick, you don't need to have a lot of money," said Dr. Agnes Binagwaho, Rwanda's health minister. "It gives you psychological stability so you can concentrate on something else. The money can be used for other things - this is very important in trying to stimulate economic development."
Makaka said that the big challenge for Mutuelle is to begin paying for itself - currently, premiums cover only about 45 percent of costs. The rest of the money is from the government and donors, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the United States anti-AIDS program Pepfar. The need to cover costs was the reason for the sudden rise in premiums last year, which drew widespread outrage. Makaka said that as people utilize more preventive care, health bills are dropping - it costs much less to cure malaria with pills early in the illness than to have the patient die in a hospital.
But it seems unrealistic to think that the system will ever be sustainable. Rwandans may make only $550 a year, but they have the same health problems as people who make a hundred times as much. Ruxin said hospitals are seeing increasing rates of diabetes and hypertension - causes of death commonly associated with wealthy countries. And as the health system becomes more sophisticated, it will treat more and more kinds of illnesses.
Rwanda, at least, has used donors' money wisely, employing it to build a complete health system - and to extend that system to all its citizens. "You can bring on all the diagnostic services, new technologies and specialties," said Drobac. "But if those things can't reach people in need, what's the point?"
We could ask the same thing in the United States. Rwanda, starting from nothing, decided to build a health system that includes everyone. And it found economic value, alongside human value, in doing so. Now we can get started.


        
The Two Big Questions on Health Care
        
'Embarrass the Future'?
        
Sex and the Secularists
        
News Flash: Progress Happens
        
Safety Nets for Freelancers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPEALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); MALARIA (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); GENOCIDE (67%) health care; Rwanda; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Third World and Developing Countries; Fixes

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) RWANDA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); THAILAND (90%) Rwanda

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



109 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SCHOOLBOOK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: With Fewer Poor Students, Schools See Budgets Shrink

BYLINE: By ELBERT CHU

 BODY:
Students at Public School 9 Teunis G. Bergen in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, started the summer with the grim news that they would lose four teachers next academic year unless parents raised $160,000 -- and soon.
The principal of the school, Sandra D'Avilar, told the parent-teacher organization last month that she would have to cut the teaching staff because the school now had fewer children officially designated ''poor,'' and so had lost $360,000 in federal Title 1 funding.
A school must have at least 60 percent of its students below the poverty rate, defined as eligible for free school lunches, to qualify for Title 1 money; P.S. 9's rate dropped to 59.1 percent.
P.S. 9, with 600 students in prekindergarten to fifth grade, is not the only school coping with a loss -- real or looming -- of hundreds of thousands of dollars in Title 1 funding. Several dozen more schools are in the same fix: too rich to qualify for the federal aid and too poor to rely on parents to fill the gaps with extravagant fund-raisers. 
The problem is partly a consequence of gentrification, when neighborhoods that feed into schools begin to attract more middle-class families. It's also a consequence of something that many schools strive for: improvements in academics and environment that entice middle-class families to enroll their children there.
Like at P.S. 9, that tip in the student population's poverty rate can undermine those very improvements -- especially if a school is in the middle, with inadequate resources to make up the difference.
Altogether, about 87 schools in New York City are caught in a squeeze, where more than half of their students -- but fewer than 60 percent -- are considered poor, putting them just shy of qualifying for the federal money, according to the city's preliminary budgets for 2012-13. The definition of poverty varies with family size; for a family of four, the city defines it as less than $29,000 in annual income.
Another 32 schools will be in the same boat as P.S. 9 by the 2013-14 school year, and will be scrambling to deal with a cutoff of Title 1 money for services like teachers, aides, literacy programs and basic supplies, which the federal program has sustained.
Schools like P.S. 11 Purvis J. Behan in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, have already experienced the loss.
Five years ago, the school's poverty rate was roughly 70 percent. But the median family income jumped to $95,000, according to 2010 census data, from $68,000 in 2000. And when its poverty rate dropped to 58 percent for 2011-12, P.S. 11 lost its Title 1 funds.
At P.S. 9, Ms. D'Avilar said she was not shocked to learn about the loss in Title 1 assistance.
''The last three years, I watched the poverty rate go lower and lower,'' said Ms. D'Avilar, who has been principal since 2004. ''It wasn't until going into the budget and seeing the money gone that it hit me.''
City officials say they give schools time to adjust to their changed status.
''We monitor all our schools,'' wrote Marge Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the New York City Department of Education, in an e-mail. When schools dip below the 60 percent poverty level, they are allocated one additional year of Title 1 assistance.
''Grandfathering gives schools a year to transition and plan for aligning resources if funding is no longer allocated in the next year,'' Ms. Feinberg said.
Still, the loss came as a blow to the P.S. 9 community. Parents began scrambling to make up the difference, as Gotham Schools reported last week. In an Op-Ed article in The New York Times, a parent wrote about the school's conundrum.
Ms. D'Avilar said parents just don't have the means to make up the difference; the median family income is roughly $50,000.
''It appears like our families are doing better financially, but they're not,'' she said. ''They all feel the crunch.''
Nevertheless, parents sent out an urgent call for help. As word spread, hundreds of neighbors and community members donated, in amounts from $5 to $1,000. So far they have raised $48,000.
While impressive, it's barely enough to save one teacher. And the parents at P.S. 9 know it's not sustainable. Typically, the largest fund-raising event of the year is a silent auction that raises $20,000, roughly half of the parent-teacher organization's total budget.
Meanwhile, the clock is ticking. The teachers whose jobs may be cut have started looking elsewhere for positions, Ms. D'Avilar said. ''They don't want to leave. We had a lot of crying and sadness,'' she said.
In some ways, like many other schools that lost Title 1 money, P.S. 9 is a victim of its own success. As the school population's poverty level slipped below the threshold, parents were able to raise money to upgrade the library and the playground. That and other changes made the school more attractive to more middle-class families.
''There's a lot of families with small children coming into the neighborhood,'' said Ivana Espinet, the mother of two children at P.S. 9 and a member of the school leadership team. ''There's people on the waiting list to get in.'' Based on Department of Education records and prekindergarten enrollment projections, the school will have more than 650 students in 2012-13. Two years ago, it had 484.
To be sure, the Title 1 loss amounts to roughly only 7 percent of the school's budget, but Faye Rimalovski, the mother of a rising second grader, said the repercussions were real.
''When you start losing teachers, that's when it starts counting,'' she said.
And parents, who say they already lost a dance teacher last year to budget cuts, say something is wrong with a financing formula that penalizes schools for being desirable and leaves them hanging at a critical time of growth.
''We shouldn't have to raise money; every school should have what they need,'' Ms. Espinet said. ''We pay our taxes and we're entitled to a good education for all our children.''
Ms. D'Avilar agrees.
''I heard about children going into their piggy banks because they want to help save our teachers,'' she said. ''They shouldn't have to do that.''
Amy Ellen Schwartz, director of the Institute for Education and Social Policy at New York University, who has studied Title 1, said the way the funds are distributed in New York City is different from almost anywhere else in the country.
The federal government allocates Title 1 funds to the city based on the overall number of low-income students. The city then divides the pool among schools where more than 60 percent of the students are eligible for free lunches. In Staten Island, the cutoff is only 45 percent because the city uses average rates of poverty by borough. It's a sore point for some principals left in limbo in the other boroughs.
Principals can use the money however they wish, with three requirements: 1 percent must be used in programs to engage parents, 5 percent to help teachers earn certifications and 10 percent for ongoing teacher training. Additionally, a portion of Title 1 funds is tied to individual students who are in the homeless shelter system.
Some say the all-or-nothing formula is unfair.
''The rich have enough money,'' Ms. Schwartz said. ''The poor we help. The ones in the middle genuinely have issues, and nobody much talks about it. It's like there's this middle that doesn't exist, and it's horrifying.''
A school spokeswoman wrote in an e-mail, ''Per federal law, Title 1 funds should be directed to schools in most need.''
In Flushing, Queens, P.S. 165 Edith K. Bergtraum is sandwiched between a gentrified area and one that barely changed economically. To the west, one neighborhood has a median family income of $85,000. To the east, the median is $30,000.
Now that the poverty rate for P.S. 165 has dipped to 57 percent, the school will no longer receive federal dollars. Just two years ago, the Title 1 money amounted to $281,000 -- equal to the salaries of roughly six entry-level teachers -- of an $8 million budget.
What put the school below the Title 1 eligibility level was a shift of just 16 students, out of 599.
Some school officials say that given the small number of children who can affect the poverty rate, the problem is a bureaucratic one: the poverty level is set by responses to school lunch forms, which collect information about family income to determine eligibility for free lunches. It's a large reason that schools make a big deal about seeing those forms returned every fall.
At P.S. 9, five children made the difference. Ms. Espinet said P.S. 9 has a 100 percent return rate for the forms, but most schools don't.
At New Utrecht High School in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, one-third of the 3,000 students receive public assistance and automatically count toward the school's official 59 percent poverty rate.
But Mitchel Kubiak, assistant principal at New Utrecht, said he believed that the actual poverty rate was much higher. Almost 30 percent of his students (920 to be exact) don't return their forms, and each form is worth roughly $1,000 in federal funds, he said.
New Utrecht has seen its budget shrink by $2 million in the last two school years, he said, with another $500,000 endangered for 2012-13.
Schools like Baruch College Campus High School in Midtown Manhattan don't have problems with forms. But the poverty rate there has gone down, and the $300,000 in Title 1 money that the school received over the last three years has evaporated, said Alicia Perez-Katz, the principal of Baruch.
Her school now has a poverty rate of 58 percent. To save math and science teachers, Ms. Perez-Katz increased average class sizes to almost 40 students, up from 25 four years ago. The school had bought computers, but now cannot afford to fix broken ones.
''Our school is like being in the middle class: You pay a lot of taxes, but we're not quite making it,'' said Johanna Van Straaten, a former PTA president at Baruch, whose son just graduated. ''We spend more than we bring in.''
Ms. Van Straaten said Baruch's PTA considers it a good fund-raising year if it brings in $20,000. This year it raised $15,000. So it dipped into its reserves to help the school pay $3,000 for printer toner and copiers, among other things.
After-school programs and arts and music classes have been cut. The school and the PTA used to rent a gym for student sports, because the building doesn't have one. They're not sure how they can pay for that now.
''That's life and reality,'' Ms. Van Straaten said. ''In some ways children should see that not everyone has everything. And to help others fund-raise to be part of a community is one good thing that comes out of needing more. That's a learning experience in itself.''
Not everyone is quite as sanguine.
''We were planning for extracurricular teachers in the fall,'' Ms. Rimalovski of P.S. 9 said. ''Now we have to take a huge step back just to save the teachers we already have in the school.''
She added: ''You think in public education everything should be covered. It's not. When we get hit for $160,000, it hurts all of our children.''
Elbert Chu is a student at the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism and a former SchoolBook intern. Follow him on Twitter @elbertchu.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POVERTY RATES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (74%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); CENSUS (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



110 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Tyranny Overboard

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
BOSTON -- The role I played in the Boston Tea Party was relatively small. Samuel Adams, the hotheaded patriot, called on me in the meeting hall. On many occasions during the years before our independence was declared 236 years ago, Adams had, no doubt, run similarly fiery meetings, honing his rhetorical skills, learning just how to set mobs into action. Even when the moderates among Boston's merchants had been satisfied by compromises with George III and the British Parliament, he fueled more radical ambitions for independence. And he was doing it again.
''James Brewer!'' he called out, looking directly at me from his speaker's perch. ''I know you to be an eloquent man.'' (He was shrewd with his flattery.) ''I heard that your house needed new windows. How did you manage to pay for them during the dark days of the Townshend Acts?'' (He was reminding me of British attempts to collect taxes, by fiat, on the most ordinary materials.) 
I glanced at the card I had been given on taking my seat, and like one of the other colonists who had just been called on, I tried, in reading it, to match Adams's tone: ''I did not pay for them!'' I cried. ''I was forced to choose between new windows or putting food in my family's bellies!''
And amid accumulating huzzahs and cries of ''Shame!,'' the roster of English perfidy finally drove the 30 or so of us who had, by chance, come together for the noon tour at the newly reopened Boston Tea Party Ships & Museum, to leap to our feet and follow Adams down the gangplank to a deck of the Beaver. It was one of the three ships that had been docked in Boston Harbor that night of Dec. 16, 1773, with their cargo of 342 chests of tea on which a heinous British tax was going to be applied the next day.
Every American schoolchild knows what happened next. Disguised as American Indians, several dozen Bostonians boarded the ships and tossed the chests and all their contents overboard, a ''tea party'' that inspired similar demonstrations in New York; Philadelphia; Charleston, S.C.; and other ports, and led to roiling confrontations with the Redcoats that erupted into the Revolutionary War. In more recent times, of course, its name has been adopted by a political movement that deliberately echoes colonial accusations of unjust taxation.
True to script, once we were on the Beaver, another costumed interpreter led us to chests of ''tea,'' which, he teased, could weigh hundreds of pounds each, and encouraged the many children in our touring midst to toss them overboard. Then, breaking with the illusion for a while, he hauled the light wooden boxes back onboard so other children could have a turn.
Now I am not generally a fan of historical re-enactments, participatory history and costumed re-creations, even in so great a cause as life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness And in Boston, where buildings and sites from the Revolutionary era like the Paul Revere House and the Old North Church survive, is such a manufactured experience needed? This museum, for all its evocation of the period and its location -- it is mounted like a pier in the water in Fort Point Channel, just a few hundred yards from where the Tea Party took place -- is not even that interested in authenticity. But there is still a valuable historical function this museum can fulfill, even if very little about it is profoundly historical. And that is worth exploring.
The museum is owned by Historic Tours of America, whose other attractions range from the Harry S. Truman Little White House in Key West, Fla., to trolley tours of San Diego. The museum's earlier incarnation was destroyed by a lightning fire in 2001. Rebuilding and relocating, according to the museum's executive director, Shawn P. Ford, was a $28 million project (including public funds and an $18 million loan from the Massachusetts Convention Center Authority).
The ambition, Mr. Ford explained in an interview, is to come within 100,000 of the half-million visitors a year that the museum had after it opened in 1973, and the nation's Bicentennial celebrations began. And as the museum's hourlong tour ends, commercial transactions are encouraged: In a tea shop costumed servers might banter about their lives or the making of tea ($14.95 prix fixe with pastries) to customers before they enter the extensive gift shop.
The museum also wants to attract visitors by providing an entertaining and inspirational message, not by presenting original artifacts or by adding complicated perspectives. Authenticity is merely the intended impression. The two ships used for tours are actually modifications of 20th-century fishing vessels by the shipwright Leon Poindexter, using historical models. (The third ship, being built from scratch, will take another two years to complete.)
We are never really immersed in the period, anyway, and not just because of the InterContinental Hotel visible on one side of the museum's pier, and the Boston Children's Museum on the other. After leaving the ships, you enter the Tea Party museum, which begins with a staged dialogue between two colonial women, one a rebel, the other a Tory; they turn out to be holograms and are spirited off into the darkness -- an effect meant to amaze in a way the Revolution may not. And in the next gallery, portraits of George III and Samuel Adams come to life in their frames, Harry Potter-style, and engage in a debate of sorts about the Colonies and their relationship to England, drawn from written statements.
The only arguably historical item here is the Robinson Half Chest, which, we are told, is ''one of only two known tea chests still in existence'' from the original event, mounted in a protective cylinder within which it rotates. The museum's overall inspirational message is highlighted in the final gallery's film showing what happened after the tea dumping, including the Battles of Lexington and Concord; the film ends with a fervent, symbol-invoking rendition of ''America (My Country, 'Tis of Thee).''
Historically, none of this sheds much additional light on the Tea Party or the Revolution; it reinforces what we already think we know. But at the museum we do see John Adams's reaction to the Tea Party in his diary: ''There is a dignity, a majesty, a sublimity, in this last effort of the patriots that I greatly admire.'' Adams continued: ''This destruction of the tea is so bold, so daring, so firm, intrepid, and inflexible, and it must have so important consequences, and so lasting, that I can't but consider it as an epocha in history.''
But what was it about this event that stirred him and so many others? In what way was this act different from what came before? Other protests, particularly boycotts, had considerable success: Britain ultimately repealed its stamp tax and even eliminated onerous duties imposed by the Townshend Acts -- except for the tax on tea. The impact of that tax, though, could hardly compare to the effects of the others.
Perhaps this protest seemed different because it focused on principle -- on the idea of political representation -- rather than on practical or economic issues. It was so focused, in fact, that much energy was expended to ensure that no self-interest was on display: No protester was permitted to pocket any tea or even to scoop it out of the water. The damage done was considerable -- well over the equivalent of $1 million in today's dollars -- but the signal sent was far more serious.
Despite its destructiveness, the Tea Party was quite different from the horrifying examples of mob violence and crude plunder of earlier colonial protests. It was presented as an act more controlled, and thus, perhaps, more threatening -- as it turned out to be. The episode is far more intricate than it seems on the surface.
This museum might have explored the event's complexities, but it has something else in mind. In the telling of certain kinds of history, we deal with essences rather than nuances, with large-scale effects rather than fine-grain details. With varied success, that is what is done here. And though more would be needed for my full satisfaction, it would be just as wrong to overlook those immense themes and transformations, particularly when -- as on a day like the Fourth -- they are so justly celebrated.
Boston Tea Party Ships & Museum is at 306 Congress Street Bridge, Boston; (855) 832-1773, bostonteapartyship.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boston Tea Party Ships & Museum: Visitors like Will Swan toss reproduction tea chests into the water at this redesigned site. (C1)
An animatronic Capt. Hezekiah Coffin aboard the Beaver, a reproduction of a historical ship that can be toured at the newly reopened Boston Tea Party Ships & Museum.
 The Robinson Half Chest, considered to be one of two tea chests remaining from the 1773 Boston Tea Party, is at the museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PARLIAMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (64%); CHILDREN (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



111 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Barclays' C.E.O. Resigns As Bank Frames a Defense

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
When Barclays bank manipulated key interest rates to bolster profits during the 2008 financial crisis, senior executives said they were following a common practice that regulators implicitly approved, according to documents released by the bank and authorities.
But the illicit acts, which led to a $450 million penalty for the bank, claimed its biggest victims on Tuesday: Robert Diamond, the British bank's chief executive, and one of his top deputies, Jerry del Missier, the chief operating officer. The scrutiny is expected to grow on Wednesday, when Mr. Diamond appears before a British parliamentary committee.
Even as they resigned, Barclays published documents indicating that some executives thought they were responding to an implied directive from the Bank of England, Britain's central bank.
Barclays, in its defense, said that it not only advised the Bank of England and other British authorities about interest rate discrepancies across Wall Street, but also the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Wall Street firms weren't told to stop the practice, Barclays said. 
The disclosures put a spotlight on the interaction between regulators and big banks over the setting of interest rates during the financial crisis, raising questions about what authorities knew about the practice.
Investigators cast some doubt on Barclays' view. The bank never explicitly told regulators that it was reporting false interest rates that amounted to manipulation, according to regulatory documents.
''Barclays is just one example of why we need a culture shift in the financial world - and that means all the way to the top,'' said Bart Chilton, a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the American regulator leading the investigation.
After the Barclays settlement, American and British authorities are now shifting their focus to a pattern of wrongdoing on Wall Street, pursuing action against more than 10 big banks scattered across the globe, including UBS, JPMorgan and Citigroup. Authorities suspect that big banks reported false rates throughout the crisis to squeeze out extra trading profits and mask their true financial health.
The Barclays case is the first blow in a series of potential actions against the banks that help set the London interbank offered rate, which is used to determine the borrowing costs for numerous financial products, including student loans, mortgages and credit cards. Libor and the other interbank rates are published daily, based on surveys from banks about the rates at which they could borrow money in the financial markets.
Amid the Barclays fallout, other British banks are now scrambling to settle with authorities, according to people with knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. American regulators have set their sights on a large European institution, another person said.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is building several cases in piecemeal fashion, choosing at this point to mount evidence against each bank rather than unveil a single global settlement, according to the people. The next case is not expected to be imminent.
The agency pursued Barclays first, viewing it as a case study in Libor manipulation. The enforcement action hit all the flash points in the broad investigation, exposing a multiyear scheme touching nearly every layer of management and business practices across three continents.
Regulators accused the bank of lowering its Libor submissions to deflect concerns about its high borrowing costs amid the crisis. Mr. Diamond's top deputies sought rates in line with rival banks and directed employees not to put your ''head above the parapet,'' according to regulatory filings.
Barclays was also accused of ''aiding attempts by other banks to manipulate'' interest rates, further underscoring the clubby nature of Wall Street. In some cases, bank employees coordinated with former colleagues who worked at rival firms as a way to manipulate the rates, according to the regulatory documents.
''This scandal is another indication of how the massive growth of the financial markets did not go hand-in-hand with any thought about how to control the trading activity,'' said Pete Hahn, a fellow at Cass Business School in London.
In building the case, regulators benefited from a series of brazen e-mails that outlined the scope of the scheme. At one point, a trader called a colleague a ''superstar'' for furthering the illicit actions. Another employee even acknowledged that the bank was submitting ''patently false'' rate information.
Barclays initially resisted scrutiny from the trading commission. The C.F.T.C., Barclays argued, was overstepping its authority when it opened an investigation in early 2008.
When that argument failed, Barclays switched gears, claiming it had briefed government officials. Over the course of a year, the bank discussed its Libor submissions 13 times with the British regulator, the Financial Services Authority, and 12 times with the Federal Reserve, according to documents Barclays made public on Tuesday ahead of Mr. Diamond's testimony.
In one call on April 2008, a Barclays manager acknowledged to the Financial Services Authority that the bank was understating its Libor submissions. ''So, to the extent that, um, the Libors have been understated, are we guilty of being part of the pack? You could say we are,'' the Barclays manager said, according to regulatory documents.
''I would sort of express us maybe as not clean clean, but clean in principle.''
Or, as one Barclays official told the British Bankers Associations, the organization that oversees Libor, ''we're clean but we're dirty-clean, rather than clean-clean.'' Barclays made similar comments to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the documents say.
The back-and-forth illustrated the tangled web of relationships on Wall Street, where authorities and bankers maintain close ties. Despite the troubling acknowledgments from the bank, regulators didn't put an immediate halt to the practice. Some executives said they thought that regulators encouraged the actions.
In October 2008, Mr. Diamond received a call from a Bank of England official, Paul Tucker, who questioned why Barclays was submitting rates consistently higher than rivals, a sign of relatively poor health.
Mr. Diamond then e-mailed a top deputy about the conversation, saying that Mr. Tucker stated it ''did not always need to be the case that we appeared as high as we have recently,'' according to documents the bank released on Tuesday.
The deputy, Mr. del Missier, then directed employees to keep the submissions lower, or at least in line with rivals. His actions, some regulators say, was owed to a ''miscommunication,'' rather than instructions from Mr. Tucker.
The Financial Services Authority investigated Mr. del Missier's actions, but did not pursue a prosecution, Barclays said. The agency, however, did issue a rebuke of the bank's activities.
''The Libor scandal has caused a huge blow to the reputation of the banking industry,'' Adair Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, said in a speech on Tuesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FUTURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



112 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Fears of Fires Take the Fireworks Out of Cities' July 4th Celebrations

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
EDGEWATER, Colo. -- Independence Day this year will include the customary array of barbecues, parades and ice cream. Fireworks, though, might be harder to come by.
From Colorado to Indiana, Wyoming to Missouri, dozens of cities and towns have decided to scrap their fireworks displays -- the cherished denouement of July 4 revelry -- driven by parched conditions, vicious wildfires and sometimes a simple hunch that putting on a show this year might leave too much to Mother Nature's mood.
With the recession bearing down in recent years, some cities had already been scaling back their celebrations. But this summer, it is the weather that is largely causing skittish city officials to take a pass. 
''The way I look at it, I'd rather preside over the chamber that canceled the fireworks one year than preside over the chamber that burned the school down,'' said Dale Seward, president of the local Chamber of Commerce in Delphi, Ind., a city of 3,000 that is forgoing its fireworks show because of a lack of rain.
The same goes for Weldon Spring, Mo., near St. Louis, which canceled its fireworks event as searing heat and drought conditions have scorched the region. ''I can't even remember the last time we had rain,'' said Will Klein, executive director of the Cottleville-Weldon Spring Chamber of Commerce. ''This year, there's very little green to anybody's grass anymore. Even the trees are starting to crisp up. The risks of sparking a fire outweighed the event.''
Perhaps in no place have the cancellations been more widespread than here in Colorado, where wildfires have been blazing for weeks and residents of Colorado Springs spent the last week sifting through what is left of the blackened neighborhoods charred by the Waldo Canyon fire.
Fireworks displays planned for many communities around the state, like Aspen, Aurora and Boulder, were canceled -- though large shows in Denver and Commerce City were still scheduled.
''We felt it would be irresponsible for us to hold a fireworks show that would require fire resources,'' said Karlyn Tilley, a spokeswoman for the city of Golden, nestled in the foothills near Denver.
In years past, the city typically held its fireworks show on the football field at the Colorado School of Mines. Not this summer.
''We have firefighters from Golden working on various wildfires around the state,'' Ms. Tilley said. ''We felt it was important they focus on the fires and protecting our residents.''
Julie L. Heckman, executive director of the American Pyrotechnics Association, a trade group for the fireworks industry, said that weather cancellations were not uncommon, and she pointed out that thousands of fireworks shows will go on as planned this week.
Austin, Tex., buoyed by much-needed rain, was moving ahead with its fireworks show after drought conditions led to the event being called off last year.
Still, those in the commercial fireworks industry conceded that this year seemed especially bad as far as the number of shows canceled.
''I would say this year, we have had more than we're used to because of the drought conditions around the country,'' Ms. Heckman said.
In some places, like Wheaton, Ill., it was not so much the heat but damaging storms that prompted city officials to scratch its fireworks show.
Elsewhere, budget constraints still played a role. In Monterey, Calif., which dropped its official fireworks display beginning in 2009 because of money constraints, a less costly laser light show is planned for this year. The show is being presented by the Monterey Bay Symphony and paid for through private donations and sponsorship.
In Edgewater, a city of 5,200 on the edge of Denver, thousands of people typically flow into town to see the fireworks on the evening of July 3. But the numbers have been tough for the city to handle, said Mayor Bonnie McNulty, as has the cost, which can run up to $30,000.
And with Sheriff Ted Mink deciding to cancel all commercial fireworks displays in Jefferson County, where Edgewater is, because of extreme fire conditions, there was little choice but to call off the event.
''I think most people are relieved because of the cost and the traffic flow,'' Ms. McNulty said, adding that she could not recall a time when the event was canceled before.
Richard Luna, who owns a salon on Edgewater's main thoroughfare, has been taking his children to see the fireworks here for years and described how thousands of people watched the show from perches along the city's quaint streets and nearby Sloan's Lake. While disappointed, Mr. Luna said he understood the need to cancel the event this year.
''Out of respect for the families that lost their homes in these fires, I'm O.K. with it,'' he said. ''I'm sure they'll have it again next year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Aspen, top, like many Colorado cities this year, has canceled its annual Fourth of July fireworks, seen here in 2008. Left, Thomas Goodwin, a firefighter, put out hot spots after a wildfire last month near Bloomington, Ind. Right, Paul Forman of Peru, Ind., says his county's ban on fireworks has devastated his business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH TROTZ
JEREMY HOGAN/BLOOMINGTON HERALD-TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MICHAEL CONROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US INDEPENDENCE DAY (91%); DROUGHT (90%); CITIES (90%); FIRES (89%); FOREST FIRES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); WEATHER (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (73%) COLORADO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



113 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Lower Gas Prices and New Models Sent Vehicle Sales Higher in June

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The auto industry surpassed expectations in June by reporting a 22 percent increase in sales, fueled in part by lower gas prices and a surge of interest in new car models.
While analysts had forecast a softening in demand, the car companies on Tuesday reported strong sales in most vehicle segments without the need to resort to higher discounts.
The biggest winners during the month were Toyota and Honda, which a year ago were affected by inventory shortages after the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. 
Toyota said its sales grew 60.3 percent in June over last year, and Honda reported a 48.8 percent increase. Both companies were bolstered by big gains in sales of their bread-and-butter sedans like the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord.
''It feels good to be back in the race,'' said John Mendel, head of United States sales for Honda.
The industry's seasonally adjusted annual selling rate was 14.1 million vehicles in June. In the first six months of the year, about 7.3 million vehicles have been sold in the United States, which represents a 14.8 percent increase over the first half of 2011.
A sudden dip in gas prices in recent weeks spurred interest in larger vehicles, like pickup trucks. The price of a gallon of regular gasoline was $3.32 on Tuesday, compared with $3.59 a month ago, according to a daily survey published by the AAA.
''The unseasonal drop in gas prices was a great help in better-than-expected sales in June,'' said Jesse Toprak, the chief market analyst at the auto research Web site TrueCar.com.
The underlying engine for the industry's steady recovery continued to be the need by consumers to replace older vehicles. Many prospective car buyers who delayed buying new models during the recession are now flocking to dealer showrooms.
''Nearly 11 million sales were lost during the recent recession years, of which there are at least four million new car buyers still waiting to come back to market,'' said Lacey Plache, an economist with the Edmunds.com auto site.
Detroit's carmakers benefited from sales of their newest car models and a renewed interest in sport utility vehicles.
General Motors, the nation's largest automaker, said that its sales increased 15.5 percent in June, to 248,750 vehicles, which the company said was its best monthly performance in nearly four years.
Chrysler reported a 20.3 percent increase over the previous year, its best June sales since 2007.
Ford Motor said its sales for the month rose 7.1 percent, with sport utility vehicles and trucks leading the way.
G.M. said all four of its main brands -- Chevrolet, GMC, Cadillac and Buick -- had double-digit increases during the month, which had 27 selling days versus 26 days in June of last year. The company said its biggest gains were in small cars, particularly sales of a new subcompact, the Chevrolet Sonic, and the Buick Verano sedan.
''Across the board, June was a strong month for G.M.,'' said Kurt McNeil, head of G.M.'s United States sales. ''The combination of new products, available credit, lower fuel prices and modest economic growth was a stronger influence on consumer behavior than economic and political uncertainty.''
G.M., he said, expects ''moderate, gradual growth'' in the auto market through the rest of the year.
And the impact of lower gas prices was an unexpected but welcome stimulant for the industry. ''It's another positive sign in this sea of economic uncertainty,'' he said.
Chrysler said that its passenger car sales increased 42 percent during the month, and its truck and sport utility sales rose 12 percent. Sales of its flagship Chrysler 300 sedan were up 179 percent for the month.
Ford's hottest models were its new S.U.V.'s, which have been redesigned for better fuel efficiency. The company said sales of the small Escape sport utility improved 28 percent and the midsize Explorer increased 34 percent.
Toyota and Honda were not alone among foreign automakers in having a successful June. Nissan said that its sales rose 28.2 percent during the month, while the German carmaker Volkswagen said its sales increased 32.1 percent.
Edmunds.com said the manufacturers had maintained healthy sales without resorting to heavy discounts and other incentives.Automakers spent an average of $2,187 on incentives per vehicle during June, according to the research site. That represents about a 1.6 percent decline from May.
The industry, in fact, is exhibiting unusual discipline by forgoing big summer discounts and incentives, even on models that are being replaced with newer versions in the fall.
G.M. and Ford, in particular, have been far less willing to raise discounts and cut into their profit margins. Both companies are relying heavily on revenue and profits in the United States to offset increasingly worse results for their European operations.
Last week, Ford said it expected its international losses to triple in the second quarter compared with the first quarter.
Investors cheered the unexpectedly strong June sales; shares of G.M. closed up 5.62 percent and Ford was up 2.24 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brad Vogelgesang at the Rick Perry Buick GMC dealership in La Salle, Ill. G.M. had its best monthly results in nearly four years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Toyota Prius
Ford Focus CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SEDANS (77%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); TSUNAMIS (55%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); TRUECAR INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



114 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: WNET, for 50th, Eyes 50,000 Donors

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH JENSEN

 BODY:
As it gears up to celebrate its 50th anniversary in September with special programming, WNET, the New York City public television station, is also beginning a fund-raising campaign, hoping to encourage 50,000 new donors in the next 18 months: a steep increase of more than 25 percent at a time when such contributions are down. 
''It's a pretty ambitious goal, we know that,'' Lisa Mantone, WNET's vice president for development and communications, said in a telephone interview. ''But we feel that it's within the realm of something we can achieve,'' she said, noting that the station reaches 3.3 million viewers each week.
WNET now has about 180,000 members who contribute some $22 million annually, or about 16 percent of the yearly operating budget, which for the next fiscal year (it began on Sunday) is expected to be $139 million.
Basic membership costs $60 annually, although many donors give more. (The membership figures don't include major donors who give more than $25,000.) The station's new campaign will encourage donors to give at any level with which they are comfortable, whether or not they become official members.
Like many public television stations, WNET in recent years has lost members. If it meets its goal, it would still lag behind the 350,000 members it had in 2003, according to figures that appeared that year in Current, a trade publication. Some of those lapsed members will be a target of WNET's fund-raising efforts.
Nationwide, individual contributions to local public television stations on average accounted for 22 percent of the stations' incomes in 2010, their largest single source of revenue, according to a Corporation for Public Broadcasting report last month that examined public broadcasting's financing sources.
The report found that charitable giving for public television declined by 13 percent from 2005 to 2010, in the wake of the economic downturn and increased competition from other nonprofit organizations. Contributions could rebound somewhat as the economy improves, the report said, but ''the charitable giving landscape currently presents significant challenges for public broadcasting and, in particular, public television.''
Among the challenges going forward is what the report called donors' ''apparent shift'' away from arts and cultural organizations.
Pat Aufderheide, director of the Center for Social Media at American University, said that a decrease in corporate donations and government financing meant ''membership dollars are now important and they're going to get more important.''
The typical public television donor is ''older, white and female,'' she said, adding that stations in general need to entice people in other demographic groups to give as well.
WNET will solicit donors on the air during special anniversary shows and through direct mail, as well as online, which now accounts for 20 percent of giving, Ms. Mantone said. A text-to-donate program will also be put in place.
Online marketing around the winter broadcast of ''Downton Abbey'' brought in some younger donors, Ms. Mantone said, adding: ''We know they're watching us. Have they made the jump to giving as much as the core? Not as much as we'd like them to be.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%)

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATIONAL BROADCASTING CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



115 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: The Downside of Liberty

BYLINE: By KURT ANDERSEN. 
Kurt Andersen is the author of the forthcoming novel ''True Believers.''

 BODY:
THIS spring I was on a panel at the Woodstock Writers Festival. An audience member asked a question: Why had the revolution dreamed up in the late 1960s mostly been won on the social and cultural fronts -- women's rights, gay rights, black president, ecology, sex, drugs, rock 'n' roll -- but lost in the economic realm, with old-school free-market ideas gaining traction all the time?
There was a long pause. People shrugged and sighed. I had an epiphany, which I offered, bumming out everybody in the room. 
What has happened politically, economically, culturally and socially since the sea change of the late '60s isn't contradictory or incongruous. It's all of a piece. For hippies and bohemians as for businesspeople and investors, extreme individualism has been triumphant. Selfishness won.
From the beginning, the American idea embodied a tension between radical individualism and the demands of the commonweal. The document we're celebrating today says in its second line that axiomatic human rights include ''Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness'' -- individualism in a nutshell. But the Declaration's author was not a greed-is-good guy: ''Self-love,'' Jefferson wrote to a friend 38 years after the Declaration, ''is no part of morality. Indeed it is exactly its counterpart. It is the sole antagonist of virtue leading us constantly by our propensities to self-gratification in violation of our moral duties to others.''
Periodically Americans have gone overboard indulging our propensities to self-gratification -- during the 1840s, during the Gilded Age, and again in the Roaring Twenties. Yet each time, thanks to economic crises and reassertions of moral disapproval, a rough equilibrium between individualism and the civic good was restored.
Consider America during the two decades after World War II. Stereotypically but also in fact, the conformist pressures of bourgeois social norms were powerful. To dress or speak or live life in unorthodox, extravagantly individualist ways required real gumption. Yet just as beatniks were rare and freakish, so were proudly money-mad Ayn Randian millionaires. My conservative Republican father thought marginal income tax rates of 91 percent were unfairly high, but he and his friends never dreamed of suggesting they be reduced below, say, 50 percent. Sex outside marriage was shameful, beards and divorce were outre -- but so were boasting of one's wealth and blaming unfortunates for their hard luck. When I was growing up in Omaha, rich people who could afford to build palatial houses did not and wouldn't dream of paying themselves 200 or 400 times what they paid their employees. Greed as well as homosexuality was a love that dared not speak its name.
But then came the late 1960s, and over the next two decades American individualism was fully unleashed. A kind of tacit grand bargain was forged between the counterculture and the establishment, between the forever-young and the moneyed.
Going forward, the youthful masses of every age would be permitted as never before to indulge their self-expressive and hedonistic impulses. But capitalists in return would be unshackled as well, free to indulge their own animal spirits with fewer and fewer fetters in the forms of regulation, taxes or social opprobrium.
''Do your own thing'' is not so different than ''every man for himself.'' If it feels good, do it, whether that means smoking weed and watching porn and never wearing a necktie, retiring at 50 with a six-figure public pension and refusing modest gun regulation, or moving your factories overseas and letting commercial banks become financial speculators. The self-absorbed ''Me'' Decade, having expanded during the '80s and '90s from personal life to encompass the political economy, will soon be the ''Me'' Half-Century.
People on the political right have blamed the late '60s for what they loathe about contemporary life -- anything-goes sexuality, cultural coarseness, multiculturalism. And people on the left buy into that, seeing only the '60s legacies of freedom that they define as progress. But what the left and right respectively love and hate are mostly flip sides of the same libertarian coin minted around 1967. Thanks to the '60s, we are all shamelessly selfish.
In that letter from 1814, Jefferson wrote that our tendencies toward selfishness where liberty and our pursuit of happiness lead us require ''correctives which are supplied by education'' and by ''the moralist, the preacher, and legislator.''
On this Independence Day, I'm doing my small preacherly bit.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE MORTIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); POP & ROCK (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); WOMEN (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); MARRIAGE (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



116 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: For 'Rocket Thrower,' Reinforcement at Last

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, the Municipal Art Society opened a campaign to preserve 20 public sculptures. (I remember it as clearly as if I'd covered it myself.) The idea of the program, Adopt-a-Monument, was to entice benefactors into supporting specific artworks for which the city could no longer afford to care.
There was a needy monument for just about every philanthropic budget. 
For $275,000, a donor could adopt the Heinrich Heine Fountain, ''Die Lorelei,'' in Joyce Kilmer Park in the Bronx. Its white marble was turning a sugary consistency. Every surface was blanketed with graffiti. The mermaids at its base had lost their heads and arms to vandals. For $3,500, a donor could adopt ''Still Hunt,'' a panther in Central Park, which needed cleaning, a new protective wax coat and a new tip for its bronze tail.
Nineteen of the 20 monuments were eventually adopted. The program was so successful that 16 more monuments were added, as were 15 public murals, under a companion drive called Adopt-a-Mural.
But one adoptive prospect had yet to be fully financed until now.
That would be Donald DeLue's 43-foot-tall bronze ''Rocket Thrower,'' on the grounds of the 1964-65 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens. It might be described as an icon of heroic, midcentury, monumental Neo-Classicism. It might also be described as a gargantuan fairgrounds tchotchke of homoerotic kitsch.
The rescue delay has not been without cost. The estimated adoption cost in 1987 was $28,750 (adjusted for inflation, nearly $60,000 to day). The cost is now about $115,000.
''We really should have taken care of it right away,'' said Vin Cipolla, the president of the Municipal Art Society, a nonprofit organization that advocates better and stronger urban planning, design and preservation.
''The fact that this has not been considered a distinctive piece of work - in the consciousness of art-oriented, philanthropic New York - may be the greatest challenge,'' Mr. Cipolla said, being appropriately diplomatic.
Not a distinctive piece of work? To the contrary: John Canaday, the influential art critic of The New York Times, thought ''Rocket Thrower'' was quite distinctive. On April 25, 1964, he called it a ''most lamentable monster'' that made ''Walt Disney look like Leonardo da Vinci.''
The artist, Mr. Canaday said, had created an ''absurdity that might be a satire of the kind of sculpture already discredited at the time of the 1939 fair.'' Unfortunately, the critic continued, this joke was destined to become ''a permanent disfigurement.''
If the jealous heavens do not level 'The Rocket Thrower' with a bolt of lightning, a solution would be for some public-spirited citizen to pay for melting it down and putting it back in place. Whatever the shape of the resultant lump, it would be better than the shape the thing is in now.
Perhaps the Municipal Art Society would have been more successful raising money to melt down ''Rocket Thrower'' than to conserve it. But finally, an appreciative audience has begun to develop.
''You have to look at this artifact of the fair with the whole idea of man's entry into space,'' said Phyllis Samitz Cohen, the director of the Adopt-a-Monument and Adopt-a-Mural programs. ''Rocket Thrower,'' set in the semicircular Court of the Astronauts, was unveiled when outer space promised to be the next frontier.
About halfway along the fair's grand axis, between the Unisphere and the Fountain of the Planets, ''Rocket Thrower'' was surrounded by international pavilions: Spain, Japan, the United Arab Republic and Polynesia - ''A dance done with flaming knives and a chance to buy a pearl-bearing oyster are featured in South Seas huts.''
If you know how to read the plan of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, you can begin to understand how many traces remain of this evocative intersection of technological prowess and cultural naivete, this summing up of America in the early 1960s.
''The ghosts of it are still there,'' Ms. Cohen said.
The monument itself is a marvel of engineering, when you consider how enormous a load is being borne on such a slender, graceful arc. Even if the ''bronze muscle man,'' as Mr. Canaday called him, is awkwardly modeled, it is remarkable how his asymmetrical form seems to balance so effortlessly. ''It put me in awe,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''There is some magic about this.''
A restoration fund has finally come together. ''Rocket Thrower'' was awarded a $10,000 grant from the new Partners in Preservation program. About $11,000 has been contributed in small amounts. Marvin and Donna Schwartz have given $15,000. And $79,000 more is to be drawn from a $600,000 bequest to the Adopt-a-Monument program by George Trescher, a leading fund-raiser who died in 2003.
Tucker Ashworth and Paul Gunther, who worked for Mr. Trescher in the 1980s on behalf of the Municipal Art Society, gave form to the program. It was first called ''Monumental Woes,'' referring to the fact that New York, still reeling from the fiscal crisis of the mid-70s, could scarcely afford to give public artwork the attention it needed. City agencies collaborate with the program.
Mr. Cipolla said the society was renewing its commitment to the adoption program through a committee headed by Ashton Hawkins, the former general counsel for the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''Resources have become only less available on the public side,'' he said.
The rehabilitation of the Lorelei fountain in 1999 inspired a relandscaping of Joyce Kilmer Park when the monument was moved to a position facing the Bronx County Courthouse, across East 161st Street, from the north end of the park. ''That's the most profound restoration because it was the most ravaged monument,'' Ms. Cohen said.
The project cost far more than anticipated. It benefited from a $330,000 grant by the Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Foundation and more than $1 million from the city. The reward of that investment can be seen regularly, Ms. Cohen said.
''When people get married in the courthouse,'' she said, ''they'll come out and have their pictures taken at the monument.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Donald DeLue's ''Rocket Thrower,'' commissioned for the New York World's Fair of 1964-65, still stands in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens. It has awaited restoration for years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A postcard from the fair shows that the rocket and its arc were originally silvered. The illustrator took some pictorial liberties. In reality, the figure faces the Unisphere, not away from it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR 1964-65 CORPORATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); CHARITIES (89%); VANDALISM (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PAINTING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



117 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Orders Help Markets Rally

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Benchmark indexes in the United States and Europe on Tuesday rose to two-month highs and commodities rallied as American factory orders topped estimates and speculation grew that central banks would act to spur growth.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 0.62 percent to close at 1,374.02 while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1 percent, with both above their highest closes since the first week of May. Corn climbed for a third day as 22 of 24 commodities tracked by the S.& P. GSCI Index advanced. The yen fell against 15 of its 16 major peers, while 10-year Treasury notes retreated.
Stocks in the United States extended gains as government data showed factory orders rose in May for the first time in three months, easing concern that manufacturing was faltering. 
Orders rose 0.7 percent, which followed a revised 0.6 percent drop in April, the Commerce Department said Tuesday in Washington. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise of 0.1 percent.
Bookings for durable goods -- those meant to last at least three years -- climbed 1.3 percent, also the first gain in three months. They make up just over half of total factory demand. Tuesday's reading was more than the 1.1 percent gain estimated by the government on June 27. Demand for nondurable goods, including petroleum, increased 0.2 percent.
Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military equipment, a measure of future business investment, advanced 2.1 percent, more than the 1.6 percent gain estimated last week, after falling 1.5 percent the previous month.
Employment figures in the United States, to be reported on Friday, may prompt the Federal Reserve to initiate fresh stimulus, BNP Paribas said.
''The factory orders data take the edge off the bad numbers,'' John Manley, chief equity strategist for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in New York, said in a telephone interview. ''There's the notion that the Federal Reserve will do whatever it has to do. The question is, Will the Fed let us slip into a recession? The answer is no.''
On Tuesday, at least, markets cheered the economic news. The Dow Jones industrial average finished at 12,943.82, up 72.43 points or 0.56 percent. The Nasdaq composite index gained 0.84 percent, or 24.85 points, closing at 2,976.08.
Exchanges in the United States will be closed Wednesday for the Fourth of July holiday.
Commodity producers, industrial and technology companies rose at least 0.9 percent to lead gains in six of the 10 main industry groups in the S.& P. 500.
General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler Group reported domestic auto sales for June that topped analysts' estimates, helping the industry surpass projections and stay on pace for the best year since 2007. Auto sales accelerated to a 14.1 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the research firm Autodata said.
Alcoa, Caterpillar and Chevron rose more than 1.4 percent to help lead gains in the Dow Jones industrial average.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 12/32 to 101 4/32, pushing the yield up to 1.63 percent, from 1.59 percent late Monday.
Economists expect the European Central Bank to cut interest rates this week, while a state-owned newspaper in China said the time was ripe for a reduction in banks' reserve-requirement ratios.
The Stoxx 600 in Europe rallied to the highest level since May 3 as four shares increased for every one that fell. The regional benchmark has climbed 5.2 percent in three days after European leaders agreed on plans to tame the region's debt crisis.
Barclays slipped 0.8 percent, erasing an early rally of as much as 4.8 percent, after its chief executive resigned amid scrutiny of manipulation of interest rates.
The S.& P. GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed 3.5 percent to the highest since May. Oil rose to a one-month high of $87.66 a barrel, corn gained 2.9 percent and copper jumped 2.5 percent. Aluminum advanced 3.8 percent after Goldman Sachs Group said the metal was ''attractive at these levels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders worked on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (80%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



118 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: John D. Lyons

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Lyons, 54, is the president and chief executive of Savills L.L.C., the North American division of Savills, a publicly traded real estate services company in London.
Savills L.L.C., which has its headquarters in New York, was formed in 2007 after Savills purchased Granite Partners, a boutique investment banking firm that Mr. Lyons founded 10 years earlier.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q.What services does Savills L.L.C. provide?
A. Our clients tend to look at every transaction and we guide them through those. It could be finding the appropriate property to acquire, helping them make decisions as to what to keep or sell and when to do it, advising on whether to put additional financing or debt on the property, advising on whether to restructure or bring in a new capital partner. But at the end of the day we are a transaction-oriented company.
Q.How many transactions have you worked on so far this year?
A. I don't know the exact number that we've done this year, but it's definitely a greater number than last. What we've seen since the debacle that began in 2008 has been a steady and consistent improvement. Our book of business has grown exponentially and deals are getting done in a shorter period of time.
Q.Have you had many deals in the New York area?
A. We brought in Zara for 666 Fifth Avenue, which was a $324 million transaction. We are in the process right now of closing an apartment deal downtown for a Spanish bank.
Q.What has been your largest deal over all this year?
A. We just completed -- and unfortunately the terms can't be widely disseminated -- one involving one of the largest office buildings in Canada. And we also just completed a very large health care transaction that is close to $400 million. It's one of the health care REITs. We also completed a very large equity raise for a national multifamily entity. That's located in the Midwest.
Q.Do you invest on your own behalf?
A. No, as an entity we don't.
Q.But you help bring in investors and arrange for financing.
A. We have brought capital in from Asian sovereign wealth funds, from European investment banks and insurance companies and wealthy individuals all over the world.
Q.Are you seeing a lot more foreign demand?
A. There's a lot of capital looking for opportunities in the United States. There's a tremendous amount of activity from Europeans looking to put their money into safer harbors. The Middle East, with its tremendous unsettlement due to the Arab Spring, is looking for safety, and Asians who have relatively robust economies and tremendous growth are looking to expand.
Q.What are they interested in?
A. It varies by buyer and by country. A perfect example: You have a number of Latin Americans coming to the United States and looking to acquire large residences, and that seems to be primarily located in New York and Florida. However, we represent a number of European institutions and sovereign wealth funds and they are buying best-in-class and landmark office assets, trophy assets, and major retail assets and multifamily.
In 2011 there was $550 billion of total transactions that Savills tracked and of that there was $120 billion cross-border.
Q.Won't this cherry-picking of property slow our overall recovery?
A. There's not been nearly that much Grade A high-end property placed on the market for the last number of years. The capital that's been on the sidelines waiting to participate and play needs to be put to work. Those who are looking to acquire an office building in New York or Washington may find that they are priced out of the market.
And what we're beginning to see is that they are now beginning to look into the secondary markets for the best assets in those markets.
Q.Which secondary markets?
A. Markets like Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Chicago, Atlanta -- and so their higher-end, more stable assets are getting more attention. The second-tier cities that are going to get the most benefit are those that have the most diversified and stable economies that are not hurting from either a political or economic issue.
We're also starting to see a tremendous number of Class B properties as well. Class B retail has been ignored over the last three years, and we're seeing a real resurgence in that sector.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: SAVILLS PLC (92%)

TICKER: SVS (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (75%); MIDDLE EAST (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



119 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Orders for U.S. Manufactured Goods Increased in May

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Companies placed more orders with American factories in May from April, demanding more computers, machinery and other equipment that signal investment plans.
Factory orders increased 0.7 percent in May from April, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. The increase is a welcome sign after two months of declining factory orders. 
Still, factory orders are down from the start of the year. And more recent data shows manufacturing activity shrank in June for the first time in three years, adding to worries that weaker global growth is weighing on the economy.
''The demand for manufactured goods is recovering moderately and irregularly, but that recovery has been relatively weak relative to the magnitude of the previous declines,'' said Steven Wood, chief economist at Insight Economics.
Core capital goods, which include machinery and computers, rose 2.1 percent, which is better than the 1.6 percent estimated in a preliminary report a week ago.
Overall factory orders increased to $469 billion. That's 43.5 percent higher than the recession low reached in March 2009. But orders have fallen 2.5 percent over the last five months from their postrecession high in December.
Manufacturing has lost some vigor this year as job growth has slowed and consumers and businesses are less confident in the economy. Europe's debt crisis has reduced demand for American exports.
Orders for long-lasting durable goods, everything from airplanes to refrigerators, rose 1.3 percent in May. Orders for nondurable goods, which include food, paper, chemicals and energy products, edged up 0.2 percent. The increase may have been held back by falling oil and gas prices.
Still, orders are likely to decline in June, based on a report from the Institute of Supply Management. The trade group of purchasing managers on Monday said manufacturing contracted in June for the first time since July 2009 -- one month after the recession ended.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); RECESSION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); EURO CRISIS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



120 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: China to Ban Shark Fin Soup At State Events

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China said Tuesday that it would prohibit official banquets from serving shark fin soup, an expensive and popular delicacy blamed for a sharp decline in global shark populations.
The ban, reported by Xinhua, the state-run news agency, could take as many as three years to take effect, and it remains unclear how widely it will be adhered to across a sprawling nation where orders issued by Beijing are often shrugged off by officials in faraway regions and provinces.
Still, the decision to stop serving shark fin soup at official functions was welcomed by environmental campaigners. Experts have long cautioned that soaring demand for the soup over the past two decades has imperiled shark populations around the globe. 
''This is a very positive step forward,'' said Andy Cornish, director of conservation at W.W.F. in Hong Kong. ''It is the first time that the Chinese central government has expressed a decision to phase out shark fin from banquets funded by taxpayers' money.'' He said the move would send an important signal to consumers in China, the largest market for the fins.
Stan Shea, a project coordinator in Hong Kong at Bloom Association, a marine conservation organization, likewise welcomed the policy change, saying it represented a ''big step'' to help shark populations.
The soup, brewed from dried shark fins, is largely tasteless and slithery but has considerable cachet as a status symbol. Many in China consider it a must-serve at lavish, multicourse banquets to celebrate weddings, anniversaries and corporate and state events.
Retailers in Hong Kong, the main hub for the international trade in the fins, charge more than 2,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $260, per catty, a traditional weight measure commonly used in markets here. Equal to just over one pound, one catty makes about 10 portions of soup, which works out to $26 a portion.
Rapid economic growth across Asia in recent years has catapulted millions into the ranks of those who can now afford the dish.
In an effort to conserve shark populations, several nations have banned the fishing of sharks. Several American states, including California, have banned the possession, sale and distribution of shark fins. And in Hong Kong, several high-end restaurants and hotels have recently taken shark fin off the menu in response to shifting public awareness in the city. The Hong Kong government has so far resisted calls from shark conservationists to curtail the trade or consumption of shark fins.
''The Hong Kong government has repeatedly dodged the question of implementing a banqueting ban on shark fin soup, saying that it sees no need for such guidelines,'' said Mr. Cornish of W.W.F. ''We strongly hope that the new administration in Hong Kong government will shortly follow suit.''
The Hong Kong Environmental Protection Department's media office, in an e-mail on Tuesday, reiterated its long-held stance that the government carries out the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, known by its acronym, Cites.
Environmentalists, however, argue that Cites should list as threatened a far larger number of shark species than it does.
Hong Kong government guidelines stipulate that official banquets not be ''extravagant,'' and this means menus do not ''generally include shark fin,'' the media department added. It did not say whether Hong Kong would echo Beijing's decision to ban the dish from official banquets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2010, a load of shark fins sat to dry in the sun on a street near the docks in Hong Kong, which is the international hub for the trade. Left, the shark fins at market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX HOFFORD/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 PAUL HILTON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); RETAILERS (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



121 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Finding Success on the Oil Frontier

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- No commercially exploitable oil had been discovered in Kenya until Tullow Oil began drilling this year in the blazing savanna of the Rift Valley, about 250 miles northwest of Nairobi.
In May, the company said that its first well had produced promising results, finding more oil-bearing sands than wells drilled in the geologically similar Lake Albert region of Uganda, where Tullow discovered a 1.1-billion-barrel field in 2006.
If Kenya turns out to be another Uganda, Tullow will have been instrumental in opening up no fewer than four new oil basins in the last six years. Three, including the jumbo-size Jubilee field in the deep waters off Ghana, are in sub-Saharan Africa. The fourth, off French Guiana in South America, was the payoff of a bet that the same oil-bearing rocks found in West African waters would also be present off the coast of Latin America.
Is it luck? Competitors do not think so. ''On their track record -- you have to say it is really good,'' said Neil Piggott, a longtime explorer, who now heads exploration in Brazil for BP. 
Named for a small town outside Dublin, Tullow was founded in the mid-1980s by Aidan Heavey, an accountant for the Irish airline Aer Lingus. He was intrigued by the idea of working over small oil fields in Africa that the large companies had missed. He knew little about the industry, but a friend at the World Bank helped him gain access to some gas fields in Senegal.
Under Mr. Heavey, who remains chief executive, the London-based company has grown into an exploration juggernaut with operations in more than 20 countries, a stock market valuation of about $22 billion and an exploration force of some 200 geologists and geophysicists. Tullow plans to spend $1 billion this year on exploration and appraisal, nearly as much as its 2011 operating profit of $1.1 billion.
Despite Mr. Heavey's early inexperience, his company has proved better than most of its larger rivals at making big discoveries. ''It wasn't me being a good geologist,'' Mr. Heavey, 59, said in a telephone interview. ''I did what I was good at and picked the best people.''
The company's output is growing fast, but remains small at 78,200 barrels a day of oil and oil equivalents for 2011.
Analysts place Tullow in the vanguard of a cutting-edge group of oil companies that also includes the American companies Anadarko Petroleum and Kosmos Energy.
''The thing that is incredible about Tullow over any of the other companies is their consistent track record of going into frontier basins, where no one else has found anything, and turning that into hundreds of millions of barrels,'' said Rob West, an analyst at Bernstein Research in London. ''They are an absolutely top performer.''
Tullow strikes oil in about 70 percent of its exploration and appraisal wells, about double the industry average, according to Mr. West.
Tullow's challenge is that as it grows bigger and tries to produce oil, not just find it, it will run into increasing problems and costs. For instance, the company has encountered delays and been hit with a $472 million tax bill in Uganda, which it is disputing.
''They are trying to turn themselves into a Shell. It is difficult to do that successfully,'' said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities in London.
The company's exploration chief, Angus McCoss, who moved to Tullow from Royal Dutch Shell in 2006, said that Tullow ignored industry dogmas and did ''its own thing.''
BP, for instance, decided not to participate in early drilling in the deep waters off Ghana, because the type of geology there often leads to expensive dry holes, according to Mr. Piggott, the BP explorer. Kosmos and Tullow wound up finding Jubilee, one of Africa's larger fields, in 2007.
Once Tullow's geologists discover oil, they try to think about what other areas might be similar. Mr. McCoss says he believes the Jubilee field is part of a rich geological trend that stretches up the coast of West Africa and is found across the Atlantic. According to this theory, under the waters off Latin America is a mirror image of the rich oil deposits off West Africa, left there when an ancient land mass called Pangaea split apart.
Late last year, Mr. McCoss tested his thinking when Tullow drilled a well off French Guiana. By then, Tullow had enough credibility to draw in two European majors, Shell and Total, to assume much of the estimated $250 million cost. In September, Tullow announced that it had found a large quantity of oil. Mr. McCoss says the field could be larger than Jubilee, with a billion barrels or more of recoverable oil.
This month, Tullow announced a discovery off Ivory Coast, buttressing Mr. McCoss's theory.
The Kenya discovery is a land-based application of Mr. McCoss's approach of finding oil in one place and then looking for analogies. After raising cash from its Uganda find by selling two-thirds to Total and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or Cnooc, for $2.9 billion, Tullow went in search of similar rift valley plays in Kenya and Ethiopia. Taking advantage of the lack of interest in those countries, Tullow has been able to put together about 38,610 square miles of exploration territory, an area about the size of Indiana, for only about $23 million.
There are risks, of course. The company's earnings and market valuation will very likely be tightly pegged to the price of oil, which has fallen sharply in recent months. Deepwater exploration wells can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and a run of bad luck could sour investors. In addition, as the company expands, new finds will have less impact.
The company could also run into political difficulties in countries new to oil. Already, Uganda's government is pushing Tullow, Total and Cnooc to build a refinery in the country.
Still, the industry is likely to keep pouring money into sub-Saharan Africa because it is less explored than other parts of the world and because of its proximity to China and other energy-hungry Asian economies. Explorers had strong years in the region in 2010 and 2011, finding the equivalent of more than five billion barrels of oil each year. This year already looks substantially better, with volumes approaching 10 billion barrels.
''Africa is very much an important exploration province,'' says Martin Kelly, chief sub-Saharan Africa analyst at the Edinburgh-based consulting firm Wood Mackenzie.
As Tullow and other companies move into areas new to oil drilling, one concern is disruption to local environment and culture.
Tullow, for example, is working in the Turkana Basin of northern Kenya, the location of some of the richest early hominid sites on the planet. The paleoanthropologist Richard Leakey, who has been working in the area since 1968, said he was worried when Tullow obtained its licenses.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Leakey said that there were still scars on the landscape from Shell's exploration activities years ago. But Tullow's attitude has been different, he said, giving credit to Mr. Heavey. ''He has shown to be a very decent person with a very good attitude toward the responsibilities an oil company might have to an area like this,'' Mr. Leakey said.
He said the local people were nomadic herders, and he feared the central government would use the oil for its own purposes and just give the local people ''sweets and little gestures.''
Mr. Heavey said that his company was open to creative ways to share the wealth. For example, Tullow has listed its shares on the Ghana Stock Exchange.
''We have to make sure we are transparent in what we do and make sure we do things properly,'' Mr. Heavey said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ngamia rig site in northern Kenya. Tullow Oil, which is based in London, began drilling in the African nation this year. (B1)
Tullow drillers in Uganda, where a 1.1-billion-barrel oil field was discovered in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TULLOW)
 Aidan Heavey, right, chief executive of Tullow Oil, and Angus McCoss, the exploration director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PHYSICS (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (58%); AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (54%); KOSMOS ENERGY LTD (50%)

TICKER: APC (NYSE) (58%); AERL (LSE) (54%); KOS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

PERSON: AIDAN HEAVEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (77%) KENYA (94%); UGANDA (93%); AFRICA (92%); GHANA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); IRELAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



122 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: A Chief With Flair Falls From a Perch

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and MARK SCOTT; Stanley Reed contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LONDON -- Robert E. Diamond Jr., a fiercely competitive Wall Street executive who hated to lose, recognized late Monday night that he was losing.
Until then, the American-born chief executive of the British banking giant Barclays was convinced that he could survive the rising calls for his ouster after accusations from regulators in Britain and the United States that Barclays had manipulated important global interest rates with the knowledge of senior management.
On Monday, the 60-year-old executive wrestled with the pressures confronting his bank from regulators and British politicians. Realizing that he had become a lightning rod, Mr. Diamond decided to resign, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the discussions were meant to be private.
''My motivation has always been to do what I believed to be in the best interests of Barclays,'' Mr. Diamond said in a statement on Tuesday. ''The external pressure placed on Barclays has reached a level that risks damaging the franchise. I cannot let that happen.'' 
People who know Mr. Diamond well say that because his wife and three children live in the United States, the idea of remaining in a city where he had become a public enemy of sorts had lost all appeal.
It was an abrupt downfall for a man who over two decades had built an investment banking powerhouse nearly from scratch at Barclays, a 322-year-old British bank previously known as an old-fashioned financial institution. In every way, Mr. Diamond, who grew up near Boston but eventually became a British citizen, brought American flair to the stodgy world of British banking.
Charming, with a gleaming smile, he was a relentless promoter of the Barclays brand, attaching it to golf outings, soccer leagues and even to London's new public bicycle rental system.
But his embrace of the American-style pay and bonus culture became one of his main vulnerabilities.
Mr. Diamond paid his people, from whom he demanded and usually got unstinting loyalty, extremely well -- and he was very well rewarded himself.
Mr. Diamond was awarded $:6.3 million, or $10.3 million, in pay and perks for last year. The pay of two of his top executives, Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci, has not been officially disclosed. All of them, including Chris Lucas, the chief financial officer, have said that they will give up their awards for 2011.
Many shareholders in Britain were offended by these compensation levels, as well as Mr. Diamond's practice of deploying significant financial resources to the riskier areas of the bank. At the shareholder meeting in April, Mr. Diamond faced a crowd of hecklers, some of whom dressed as eagles, reflecting the bank's logo.
And he also drew frequent rebukes from regulators and politicians for Barclays' numerous efforts to reduce its tax liabilities and those of its clients.
Despite his reputation as being as hard-charging as a trader, Mr. Diamond always saw himself as a builder of businesses. His stint early in his career as a bond trader on Wall Street at Morgan Stanley was relatively short. His hunger to design, build and administer investment banking operations -- and instill a binding culture within them -- drove his subsequent career.
Mr. Diamond is said to have believed deeply in the idea that a common culture underpinned a bank's success, and he spoke frequently of his ''no jerks'' policy -- a reference to eliminating any bad apples in his bank.
But, the gloating e-mails from his traders who have been accused by American and British investigators of engaging in the interest rate deceptions suggest that a different type of culture prevailed among some of his bankers.
The son of teachers, Mr. Diamond was a business school professor at the University of Connecticut before taking his first job in banking in the 1970s, in the information technology department of Morgan Stanley. He soon rose to become a senior bond executive at that company.
In 1996, he came to London as an investment banker. Forced out of a senior job at Credit Suisse that same year, he was tapped by Barclays to run its small bond division.
Back then, old-line commercial banks like Barclays were eager to build more profitable banking operations that would trade derivatives, bonds and foreign exchange -- activities for which London has emerged as a global trading hub.
Soon, Mr. Diamond was delivering most of Barclays' profits. His reputation as a seizer of opportunity was solidified when, after the cataclysmic collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, he arranged for Barclays to acquire the salvageable pieces of that bank for $1.75 billion. When he toured the trading floor of Lehman for the first time in September 2008, the loudspeaker blared ''God Save the Queen.''
Next to the Lehman acquisition, Mr. Diamond's other notable achievement was his securing of an investment lifeline from Middle East investors in 2008 that kept Barclays from having to accept government money, as other troubled banks in Britain had to take.
When John S. Varley retired as Barclays' chief executive in early 2011, Mr. Diamond was able to grab the prize he had longed for: the opportunity to run his own bank, one that ended last year with $:1.5 trillion, or $2.3 trillion, in assets and $:5.8 billion in pretax profits.
The problem, however, was that running a commercial bank in Britain in 2011 had become a largely political affair. After the global financial crisis and the subsequent economic slump in Britain, regulators, politicians and not least the governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn A. King, took aim at British banks deemed too reliant on risky trading profits -- the very business that Mr. Diamond had created.
Mr. Diamond did his best to try to assuage skeptical British regulators and politicians. He cultivated ties with Peter Mandelson, the influential Labour politician who had earlier called Mr. Diamond ''the unacceptable face of banking'' in Britain. He maintained a close working relationship with Paul Tucker, the deputy governor of the Bank of England. In late 2008, he had a conversation with Mr. Tucker over the setting of Libor rates --the issue at the heart of the controversy.
But diplomatic outreach could not overcome disputes over his pay, embarrassing disclosures over taxes and ultimately a widely accepted view here that Barclays, with assets about the size of the British economy, was too risky for its own good -- not to mention that of the country.
Speaking before a Parliamentary committee last year, Mr. Diamond declared that ''a period of remorse and apology for banks'' needed ''to be over.''
On Wednesday, when he testifies to Parliament about the Barclays debacle, he is expected to offer apologies, even as he defends himself and the bank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As chief executive of Barclays, Robert E. Diamond Jr. was criticized on several fronts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DYLAN MARTINEZ/REUTERS) (B1)
 Robert E. Diamond Jr. at Barclays' headquarters in London. His pay drew negative attention from politicians and regulators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); GOLF (62%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); CITIZENSHIP (52%); SOCCER (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



123 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 839 words

PERSON: Sergio Pininfarina 

HEADLINE: Sergio Pininfarina, Stylist Of Italian Cars, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Sergio Pininfarina, whose design firm created the rakish and elegant auto bodies of some of the most popular, and fastest, cars ever made by Ferrari, Alfa Romeo, Maserati and Fiat, died on Tuesday at his home in Turin, Italy. He was 85.
His death was confirmed by a spokesman for Ferrari, where Mr. Pininfarina was a board member for many years. 
Mr. Pininfarina took the reins of the company in 1961 from his father, Battista, who founded it under the name Carrozzeria Pinin Farina in 1930 and then rebuilt it virtually from scratch after Allied bombers destroyed its plant along with the rest of Italy's industrial base in World War II.
The younger Mr. Pininfarina, who brought a flair for marketing as well as design to the family business, scored his first successes in collaboration with Ferrari, the racecar maker known for its lucrative business in rich men's toys.
Convinced that a new consumer market was emerging, Mr. Pininfarina urged Ferrari to let him design two auto-body prototypes for a new 12-cylinder racecar-quality vehicle under production in the early 1960s.
The first, known as the 250 GTO, was an extremely expensive racecar built mainly for sheiks and movie stars. (Of the 39 cars built from 1962 to 1964, one sold recently for $35 million.) The second was a production model, known as the 250 GTE, which sold for $15,000. And though it cost a small fortune, it became one of Ferrari's first big sellers.
The success led to one of Mr. Pininfarina's best known Ferrari designs, the Dino series of midengine cars produced from 1968 to 1976. The Dino's bug-eyed front, grading gently to a curvaceous rear end, became a signature of the Italian look in sports cars. Designed to compete with the stark line of the new Porsche 911, the Dino series propelled Ferrari and Mr. Pininfarina into the mass-market car business.
''Ferrari would not be Ferrari without Pininfarina,'' said Michael Sheehan, founder of the online Ferraris' collectors newsletter, Ferraris-online.com. ''Ferrari built the machines, and basically Pininfarina clothed them.''
Mr. Pininfarina's firm worked with many other carmakers over the last 50 years, including some in the United States. The Pininfarina stamp -- an ''f'' surmounted by a crown -- has appeared in millions of cars by Alfa Romeo, Fiat, Maserati, Rolls-Royce, Chevrolet, Cadillac, Bentley, Volvo and Peugeot. But for most of that time Mr. Pininfarina was, in effect, the design department of Ferrari. Only a handful of car models made by Ferrari were designed by other companies.
For a while, Mr. Pininfarina stood as the chief custodian of Italian styling in cars. His firm designed prototypes for models that sold about 50,000 units a year by the mid-1980s, compared with about 500 in the early 1960s, and the success gave him freedom to design not only ''affordable'' cars but high-end and even one-of-a-kind vehicles for the very wealthy.
''I am a lucky man, because I design cars for a few people,'' he said in a 1981 interview with The New York Times. ''So in my life, I always design what I like. I sell cars to people who like that kind of car.''
But by 2000, the landscape of car making had changed considerably. A shift in the market toward economy and fuel efficiency reduced the base of Mr. Pininfarina's carmaker customers, and shifted his firm's work toward Asia and the market for subcompacts.
In a 2000 interview with The Times, Mr. Pininfarina described the trajectory: ''We have gone from being tailors to selling to consumers,'' he said.
By 2008, the family had lost control of all but a small share of stock to creditors, though family members continue to operate the firm.
Mr. Pininfarina was born in Turin on Sept. 8, 1926. He earned a mechanical engineering degree from the Polytechnic University of Turin in 1950, and became the firm's managing director in 1961. His father died in 1966. He turned over control of the company to his son Andrea in 2001. After Andrea's death in a motor scooter accident in 2008, Mr. Pininfarina's younger son, Paolo, became head of the company.
Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Giorgia, and daughter, Lorenza.
A courtly and stylish man of wit and charm, Mr. Pininfarina taught car body design at his alma mater for several years, and was often invited to speak to engineering and design groups in the United States. On one visit in 1981, an interlocutor asked, ''What makes a good design?''
He replied with a long list of criteria, including ''good harmony, classic style, proportion, grace -- and honesty,'' adding with a small smile, ''Then, if you have good taste, the battle is won.''
Correction: July 20, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on July 4 about Sergio Pininfarina, whose design firm created bodies for several car companies, referred incorrectly to two cars he designed for Ferrari. The company built 39 250 GTOs from 1962 to 1964, not in 1960. And the 250 GTE was a different model from the 250 GTO, not ''a slightly powered-down version.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sergio Pininfarina with a Ferrari Testarossa, top. Above left, a Ferrari 250 GT Berlinetta PF 840 and a Ferrari 512 BB. Mr. Pininfarina scored his first successes in collaboration with Ferrari. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PININFARINA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); SPORTS CARS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%)

COMPANY: PININFARINA SPA (90%); FIAT SPA (85%)

TICKER: PINF (BIT) (90%); FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (90%) ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012



124 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TICKET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Possible No. 2 Knows Ways Of the Capital

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- He has played the role of Hillary Rodham Clinton, Al Gore and Barack Obama. He has spent hours studying intricate details of their policy positions, perfecting the cadences of their voices and refining the lines of attack against their Republican opponents.
For more than a decade, Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, has deployed an unusual expertise: impersonating Democrats to help candidates in his own party prepare for debates. He has frustrated George W. Bush, agitated Dick Cheney and pushed John McCain beyond the brink of irritation.
''I hate him still,'' Mr. McCain said with an admiring air of sarcasm, laughing in a brief interview as he recalled their testy practice sessions four years ago. ''Because he's such a jerk, he gets under your skin, says things that are impossible to respond to.''
But this year, Mitt Romney may have another part in mind for Mr. Portman. 
The search for Mr. Romney's running mate is entering its final phase, and Mr. Portman, who has ascended to senator from staff member during nearly three decades in Washington, is believed to be high on the list of prospects. He has campaigned repeatedly with Mr. Romney, and he is flying to New Hampshire this week -- where the Romney family is vacationing -- to appear at a Republican fund-raiser.
Mr. Portman, who was elected to the Senate in 2010 after representing the Cincinnati area in the House for 12 years, is relatively unknown to most Republicans across the country. But here in Washington, where he worked in both Bush administrations and has won praise as an effective legislator, he is among a select breed of politicians who have a keen and deep understanding of the inner workings of government.
When he arrived in the Senate, he startled some Republican colleagues when he pulled out his own charts and graphs that analyzed the nation's rising deficits and its debt of $15 trillion. His earnestness initially rubbed a few people the wrong way, particularly because of his tenure as budget director for President George W. Bush.
At a time when fiscal concerns weigh heavily on the electorate, and the tug of war between the Republican establishment and the Tea Party still simmers, many conservatives still blame Mr. Bush and his team for allowing increases in government spending and budget deficits that they consider excessive. In interviews, several friends argued that since Mr. Portman served for only a year as director of the Office of Management and Budget, he did not bear responsibility for the administration's full record.
If Mr. Romney is looking for a stirring orator to help electrify the ticket, Mr. Portman may not be his first choice. But for a governing partner with strong relationships in Congress, Republicans believe Mr. Portman is far more attractive.
The vetting of possible vice-presidential candidates has been under way for months. It is a deeply secretive process overseen at the Romney campaign headquarters by one of the candidate's most trusted confidantes, Beth Myers. Last month, Mr. Romney tried to discourage speculation by declaring, ''There are only two people in this country who know who are being vetted and who are not.''
Republicans close to Mr. Romney believe Mr. Portman is on the list, along with a handful of others including former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. The roster could be larger, associates of Mr. Romney caution, but many Republicans argue that Mr. Portman is ideally suited for campaigning in Ohio and other critical Midwestern states.
''He would probably be the best-prepared person of anyone since George Herbert Walker Bush became Ronald Reagan's vice president,'' said Joe Hagin, who also worked in both Bush administrations and has known Mr. Portman since childhood. ''He has an immense understanding of the budget, the tax code and trade and foreign policy.''
Mr. Portman, 56, has close ties to the Bush family. Barbara Bush recorded radio advertisements that helped him win an early Ohio Congressional race. This week in Maine, Mr. Portman is scheduled to have lunch with the elder George Bush, whom he served in the White House as associate counsel and head of legislative affairs.
Friends of both men say they are not certain if Mr. Bush has shared his admiration for Mr. Portman with Mr. Romney -- any such talk would be private, presumptuous or both, one associate said. But the former president praised Mr. Portman when asked about him last week.
''Rob keeps telling me I'm the guy who got him into all of this,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement. ''All I know is I am very proud of him and his record. If you ask me how and when we met, I don't remember when I met anyone anymore. I just know that I've known him a very long time.''
The Romney campaign and its team of lawyers have probably combed through every facet of Mr. Portman's career, which began in Washington after he graduated in 1984 from the University of Michigan Law School. He worked as a lobbyist at Patton Boggs, an influential firm in the capital, and worked at two Ohio law firms between stints in the two Bush administrations.
No Republican has ever been elected president without winning Mr. Portman's home state, but it is unclear how much he would lift the ticket. He won his Senate race two years ago by 18 percentage points, but a Quinnipiac University poll in May found that 59 percent of Ohio voters did not know enough about him to form an opinion.
The chemistry between Mr. Romney and Mr. Portman was on display on a recent bus tour across Ohio. After they bounded onto the stage together in Newark, Ohio, last month, Mr. Romney beamed as Mr. Portman assailed the economic record of the Obama administration. The two men have an easy rapport, aides said, which was strengthened when Mr. Portman endorsed Mr. Romney during the primary.
Mr. Portman can deliver a speech in Spanish. He learned the language while living on a ranch near the Rio Grande in Texas during a college break, working alongside illegal immigrants. The experience intrigued him enough that he used it to write his anthropology thesis at Dartmouth.
He recorded radio ads in Spanish during his Senate race and promoted his jobs plan to Hispanic voters. With a light accent and a trill of his R's, he introduced himself by saying, ''Soy Rob Portman, candidato para el Senado de los Estados Unidos.''
Mr. Portman, who has returned to Cincinnati on weekends during much of his time in Washington, has been married to his wife, Jane, for 25 years. She once worked for a Democrat, Tom Daschle, during his early days representing South Dakota in the House. She agreed to become a Republican when her husband agreed to become a Methodist before their marriage in 1986. They have three children.
Mr. Portman's friends say he has started to become exasperated at being labeled by comedians and commentators as boring. Stephen Colbert, on a recent episode of his Comedy Central program, said a Romney-Portman ticket would be ''the bland leading the bland.''
But many Republicans say that is precisely Mr. Portman's attraction, as he would provide an antidote to Sarah Palin, the party's last vice-presidential candidate. He has delivered a series of self-deprecating jokes to combat being described as dull. But in a recent interview he said, ''Just because you can give a policy speech, doesn't mean you can't also do the other thing.''
The other thing, Mr. Portman said, is firing up Republican crowds, which he did as he campaigned alongside Mr. Romney last month in Ohio. The crowd roared when he bellowed, ''Do you agree with me that we can't afford four more years of Barack Obama?''
Rick A. Lazio, a former member of Congress from New York who roomed with Mr. Portman when they served together in the House, dismissed criticism that Mr. Portman lacked excitement. He said bluntly, ''We're looking for competence.''
In his unsuccessful bid for the Senate in 2000, Mr. Lazio asked his friend to play Mrs. Clinton to help him prepare for his debates, a rare time when Mr. Portman played the role of a woman. He did not wear a wig, Mr. Lazio said, but he perfected her in most every way.
''You just try to make it as unpleasant as possible,'' Mr. Portman said with a smile, recalling dozens of debate grilling sessions in which he relentlessly pushed the candidates.
Further testimony to Mr. Portman's rigor comes from Dick Cheney. He endured months of debate training camps in 2000 and 2004, when Mr. Portman played the parts of Joseph I. Lieberman and John Edwards.
A framed debate poster hanging in Mr. Portman's office carries a scribbled inscription from Mr. Cheney: ''Rob, you were tougher than my opponent.''
THE TICKET: Articles in this series examine potential Republican vice-presidential candidates.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Rob Portman of Ohio after a meeting on deficit reduction. He is considered a candidate for Mitt Romney's running mate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Portman at the Ohio River Way Paddlefest in Hamilton, Ohio, last month. He is relatively unknown across the country. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); ROB PORTMAN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); AL GORE (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



125 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Reduces Forecast For Growth in the U.S.

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday lowered its estimates for United States economic growth for this year and next, and urged policy makers to do more to help the housing sector and support the tepid recovery.
In its annual assessment of the American economy, the fund also had a sharp warning for Washington: avoid the fiscal cliff at the end of the year, when the Bush-era tax cuts expire and mandatory spending cuts across the government go into effect. The sudden shock could be enough to put the country back into recession, the fund warned, with global repercussions.
In a news conference, Christine Lagarde, the fund's managing director, also said that Congress should ''promptly'' raise the debt ceiling to avoid spooking the global debt markets and raising the country's borrowing costs. The government is expected to hit its statutory borrowing limit late this year. 
Should policy makers fail to ease the end-of-the-year fiscal blow and raise the debt ceiling, ''the domestic effects would be severe, with negative spillovers to the rest of the world,'' warned Ms. Lagarde.
The fund cut its estimates of American growth to 2 percent in 2012 and 2.25 percent in 2013 in the report. In April, it estimated growth of 2.1 percent in 2012 and 2.4 percent in 2013.
A number of other government and private forecasters have done the same recently. On Tuesday, for instance, Macroeconomic Advisers, a private economic consulting firm, cut its estimate of the current pace of economic growth to an annual rate of 1.5 percent a year, down from 2.6 percent in early April. And last month, the Federal Reserve lowered its estimate of 2012 growth, to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, from a range of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent as projected in April.
The fund cited numerous reasons for the slowdown. The need for households to pay down their debts has cut into consumer spending and reduced economic demand. Job creation has slowed this year, and the unemployment rate remains seriously elevated. The long-simmering debt crisis in Europe and recent slowdown in big emerging markets have cut into exports.
''Business fixed investment also seems to have lost some momentum, despite favorable financial conditions for the cash-rich corporate sector,'' wrote the fund's analysts. ''Large firms can tap bond markets at low rates and enjoy easy access to bank credit. In contrast, access to mortgage credit is still tight for households, notwithstanding historically low rates.''
The fund applauded recent efforts to support the housing market but said that Washington should do more. It said that the government should support broader refinancing, and that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- the government-sponsored mortgage finance giants -- should allow principal reduction. The Obama administration has backed the idea, but top housing finance regulators have resisted it.
It also suggested allowing courts to reduce the amount homeowners in personal bankruptcy owe on their mortgages without the consent of their lenders -- so-called cram-downs. Mortgage lenders have strongly opposed courts cutting outstanding loan balances.
The I.M.F. also warned of downside risks to American economic growth. Most notably, an intensification of the euro zone crisis could affect the United States by causing investors to flee to safe assets and sapping exports, said Ms. Lagarde.
The fund also advised the United States to reduce its significant debts in the medium term, calling a ''credible'' fiscal plan ''urgently needed'' to avoid scaring global investors and damaging the recovery.
''We believe fiscal consolidation is necessary -- but not any fiscal consolidation. It has to be sensible, and certainly not excessive,'' said Ms. Lagarde. She described a ''small'' amount of deficit reduction -- about 1 percent of economic output -- as ''perfectly appropriate'' for next year, given the expected weakness in the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); EURO CRISIS (70%); BONDS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



126 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Wooing Swing Voters, Both Parties Wary of Overemphasizing Health Care

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
LEESBURG, Va. -- George Allen, a former Republican senator campaigning to get his old job back, did not seem eager to discuss health care on Tuesday as he buzzed through this town's historic district. The economy, energy production, even a rash of Lyme disease at a local college were quicker to get him talking as he glad-handed voters.
But some of the most avid Republicans he ran into on King Street were determined to complain about the Supreme Court decision last week upholding President Obama's health care law -- and pull Mr. Allen off message. 
''The health care bill was a total disaster,'' said Dr. Ralph Swiger, 55, a dental surgeon having lunch at Leesburg Restaurant. ''What the Supreme Court did, I'm so upset about it. Everybody is.''
The experience pointed to the problem that both parties face after one of the most consequential Supreme Court decisions in memory: their core voters are energized, either by rage or elation, but the independents who are likely to decide the 2012 elections may be ready to move on.
Dr. Swiger said the health care decision made him weep for his country. But to win his Senate campaign over Tim Kaine, a popular former governor, Mr. Allen needs to reach less partisan voters like Joshua Schwanborg, 43, the proprietor of China King restaurant. He was far more concerned about the rates charged by the Australian highway firm that runs the toll road to Washington.
Leaders in both parties acknowledge that the ruling has thrown a wrench into their campaigns for control of the House and the Senate. House Republicans have scheduled another vote next week to try to repeal the law, known as the Affordable Care Act. And they say they are ready to play offense on the reinvigorated health care debate.
But even as they highlight that mobilization, leaders of both parties say overemphasizing the health care issue could turn off weary swing voters who, they fear, just want to put the issue aside. Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, the deputy chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, put the health care law in fourth place on the campaign agenda -- behind jobs and the economy, jobs and the economy, and jobs and the economy.
''I'd rather be on our side than theirs,'' he said. ''If Democrats want to go out there and talk about health care, have at it.''
The message is muddy for both parties, in part because neither is sure whether 2012 will turn solely on the economy or echo the dynamics of 2010, when the health care law was a driving force. Democrats know they cannot repeat their strategy of that election, when they simply avoided the subject of the historic health care law they had just passed, said Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. That got them trounced.
Instead, Mr. Israel said, Democrats will be aggressive and try to reframe the health care debate away from the size and reach of government to the issues that motivated them in the first place: access and delivery of care. That means tagging Republicans as defenders of the health insurance industry, trying to deny consumer protections even as they dismantle Medicare.
''Republicans were able to define the agenda in 2010,'' Mr. Israel said. ''We're not going to let them get away with it in 2012.''
And the issue has helped Democrats raise money. The Congressional campaign committee announced Tuesday that since the decision, it had raised $2.3 million from nearly 65,000 donors, with $35 as the average contribution. Saturday was the single biggest grass-roots fund-raising day in the committee's history.
At the same time, Mr. Israel and his campaign committee pointed to a new poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, which showed that 56 percent of respondents -- and 51 percent of independents -- want politicians to move on to other national problems. Only 38 percent of respondents said legislators should continue to try to block the law from being put into effect, but 69 percent of Republicans want to repeal the law.
Republicans see a dilemma in those numbers. The party needs to respond to the desires of their base voters while wooing independents who are likely to vote in far larger numbers this November than they did in 2010.
''It's a big issue,'' Mr. Allen said. ''And it's one that gets people focused on how important this election is.''
Republican campaign organizations have gone on the offensive. American Crossroads, the Republican ''super PAC'' that has been plastering states with advertising against the health care law, released a memorandum predicting the second coming of 2010.
''The Supreme Court's decision forces Obamacare to be litigated in the 2012 elections, and in virtually every case where Obamacare has been litigated by voters in an election, the law and its supporters lose,'' the group said.
Jonathan Collegio, the group's spokesman, said Crossroads would focus its attacks on Democratic Senate candidates in Indiana, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota and Virginia.
But for all the bravado in Washington campaign offices, candidates on the trail are not racing to the issue. Democrats in the toughest races have tended toward a message of ''moving on,'' especially the ones who voted for the law's passage.
''The most conservative chief justice of the Supreme Court in decades upheld this law, and now I'm hoping that Missourians will ignore the lies and distortions that are being told about this legislation and give it a chance,'' Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said Sunday in a Kansas City radio interview.
Republicans have done their own two-steps. A spokesman for Representative Rick Berg, Republican of North Dakota who is seeking a Senate seat, told a reporter in his state that Mr. Berg wants to replace Mr. Obama's health care law with one that does not deny insurance coverage to people with pre-existing conditions and closes the ''doughnut hole'' -- a gap in pharmaceutical coverage -- for people on Medicare. Those are two of the most popular provisions of the law Mr. Berg would repeal, which would be difficult to replicate without the regulatory mandates and tax increases he has vowed to reverse.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Senator George Allen, center, and Representative Frank R. Wolf, right, visited businesses in Leesburg, Va., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); APPEALS (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LYME DISEASE (72%); GOVERNORS (66%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%)

PERSON: TIM KAINE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GREG WALDEN (58%); FRANK R WOLF (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); STEVE ISRAEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



127 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Groups Admit To Lobbying Illegally to Aid Mayor's Plans

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

 BODY:
The city's economic development agency and two other organizations have admitted that they illegally lobbied on behalf of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plans to redevelop two long-neglected areas in Queens and Brooklyn, the state attorney general said on Tuesday.
The findings came after a three-year investigation into the lobbying efforts by the agency, the Economic Development Corporation, a quasi-governmental organization, and two other local development corporations that were formed as part of the mayor's efforts to redevelop Willets Point in Queens and portions of Coney Island in Brooklyn. 
The office of the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, found that the Economic Development Corporation ''played a behind-the-scenes role in the lobbying activities'' of the other two groups to the City Council. The findings came with no civil or criminal penalties.
In a settlement with the attorney general late Monday, the three groups acknowledged crossing the line and agreed to several steps toward reform.
''These local development corporations flouted the law by lobbying elected officials, both directly and through third parties, to win approval of their favored projects,'' Mr. Schneiderman said.
As a result of the settlement, he added, ''these organizations will reform their practices to comply with the law.''
Local development corporations are loosely regulated nonprofit organizations meant to encourage businesses and industry to invest in neighborhoods. They have the power to buy or lease municipal land without public bidding or an appraisal. But by law, they are barred from trying to ''influence legislation by propaganda or otherwise.''
The findings provide fuel for critics who say the Bloomberg administration has pushed through sweeping development projects against the wishes of local residents, and could provide fodder for lawsuits. Willets Point United, a group of business owners that has so far been unsuccessful in stopping the redevelopment of Willets Point, said in a blog post that the settlement could have broad implications.
''What the attorney general has done is to tar the city's chief economic development agency with illegal lobbying -- and by doing so calls into question the legality of the entire Willets Point development scheme,'' it wrote.
As part of the settlement, reported Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal, the economic development agency agreed to restructure itself, essentially breaking into two organizations: one that can legally lobby but more transparently and one that can carry on its duties as a local development corporation. The other two groups have agreed to stop lobbying.
Benjamin M. Branham, an executive vice president of the Economic Development Corporation, said the restructuring should not affect its day-to-day operations.
The New York Times reported in 2009 that one of the groups -- the Flushing-Willets Point Corona Local Development Corporation -- had been formed in direct consultation with the mayor's office to lobby for plans to turn an area near the Mets stadium into a hub of shops, hotels, condominiums and a convention center.
The group eventually received hundreds of thousands of dollars in public and private money, and spent much of it to help push through the plan.
The attorney general found that the second group, the Coney Island Development Corporation, operated out of the economic development agency's offices in Manhattan and had a staff made up entirely of agency employees, even while portraying the image of a grass-roots movement aimed at pushing through the mayor's plans to turn 19 blocks of Coney Island's amusement district into a luxurious seaside resort. The City Council passed both plans.
In one example of the agency's efforts behind the scenes, the investigation found that its officials had drafted a letter to City Council members but directed the Willets Point group to use its fax machine to send it. In the words of an employee, the agency ''felt this letter coming from our fax machine would have been lobbying.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



128 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Springsteen's Appeal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
David Brooks's June 26 column, ''The Power of the Particular,'' makes an interesting point about the attraction of Bruce Springsteen's New Jersey ''paracosms'' to people all over the world. However, Mr. Brooks doesn't address the point of Mr. Springsteen's new album, ''Wrecking Ball,'' and this tour. 
Mr. Springsteen is angry, very angry, about the roots of the economic crisis in our country, and that anger is mixed with a powerful message of hope for everyone, including unemployed Spaniards, Germans who resent the power trips of their bankers, and Britons and the Irish, who are suffering the greed of their own bankers and the austerity policies of their governments.
Anger and hope are two deep forces that are at the heart of Mr. Springsteen's music. He may have started in the towns of the Jersey Shore, but he has moved beyond that world into a more universal one that encourages millions of fans to believe in the hope that will save them.
BILL AYRES New York, June 26, 2012
The writer is co-founder and executive director of WhyHunger. Mr. Springsteen is a founding member of its Artists Against Hunger & Poverty campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



129 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Narrow Victory for Mexico's New Leader Signals Bigger Challenges Ahead

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Karla Zabludovsky and Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- At Enrique Pena Nieto's first presidential campaign rally in the spring, before thousands of cheering supporters in Guadalajara, he signed a poster of promises: to quell Mexico's drug violence, to expand opportunity for the poor, to create jobs and to restore the leadership and pride of Mexico abroad.
But now that he has won the presidency, according to preliminary results, the big question is how much he will actually be able to achieve.
On the two most important issues of crime and the economy, many experts doubt he will be able to quickly turn things around. His party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, ruled Mexico from 1929 to 2000 with authoritarianism and greed, and Mr. Pena Nieto's argument that it has since remade itself did not win over most Mexicans. Voters gave Mr. Pena Nieto a narrower than expected victory over his two challengers, with 38 percent of the vote, and PRI officials also say they do not expect a majority in Congress. 
''It's what I have called the 'safe change' vote,'' said Pamela K. Starr, director of the U.S.-Mexico Network and a professor at the University of Southern California. ''O.K. to Enrique Pena Nieto, but not to a 'carro completo,' '' which is slang for complete control.
Mr. Pena Neito will not just have to negotiate with opposing parties; he also faces an energized grass-roots opposition and possibly a protracted fight for legitimacy. His closest challenger, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist candidate who nearly won in 2006, has yet to concede. Demanding a complete recount, he has argued that the election was poisoned by fraud and that Mr. Pena Nieto had acted ''totally immorally.''
On Tuesday, an official at the Federal Electoral Institute said the authorities would investigate allegations of vote buying, which could lead to the recounting of votes from tens of thousands of polling places.
The accusations, bolstered by online videos showing what purports to be vote buying, have added fuel to the anti-Pena Nieto student movement that kicked off during the campaign. The Pena Nieto critics are growing in other ways as well, attracting support from celebrities and billing themselves as a check on PRI power.
''Pena out, Mexico without the PRI'' were the chants loudly shouted at a march on Monday.
One sign in particular captured what Mr. Pena Nieto has to look forward to during his transition and after he is sworn in on Dec. 1: ''La lucha comienza ahora,'' it said. ''The struggle starts now.''
Analysts say Mr. Pena Nieto, who campaigned on a promise of effectiveness, faces the most pressure with the issue of crime. He is inheriting a drug war that has left about 60,000 people dead since 2006. All three parties have said they would support a shift in focus, toward reducing crime and away from drug seizures and kingpin arrests, and Mr. Pena Nieto said this week that drug legalization should be debated regionwide, but that going too far risked looking like appeasement -- and the PRI's old habit of striking deals with drug cartels.
Some Washington policy makers are concerned about the new approach. Representative Henry Cuellar, a Texas Democrat who was with Mr. Pena Nieto on election night on Sunday, said he advised the Pena Nieto camp to make an emphatic statement rejecting any sort of deal with criminals to calm the apprehension some members of Congress feel about the PRI's resurgence. ''I told his people to be very clear, there will be no truce or approval of cartels,'' Mr. Cuellar said.
Mr. Pena Nieto has done just that, repeatedly.
In a sign of his commitment to the drug war, he has also hired Gen. Oscar Naranjo, the former head of Colombia's national police, who helped the United States take down the cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar. Beyond that, Mr. Pena Nieto's long-term proposals include expanding the federal police, helping prosecutors create special offices to focus on crimes like murder and kidnapping and creating a 40,000-person ''gendarmerie'' for policing rural areas.
But in the meantime, analysts expect Mr. Pena Nieto to continue the aggressive, militaristic approach of President Felipe Calderon. ''To close that credibility gap, he will need to ''out-Calderon Calderon,'' said Alejandro Hope, a former Mexican intelligence official.
That could mean what some analysts are predicting will be a ''surge'' not unlike the 2007 American troop increase in Iraq. It would be defined by the Mexican government rapidly increasing the law enforcement and military resources assigned to specific states or cities that are struggling with violence and crime.
The vote count, however, suggests that Mr. Pena Nieto could face some constraints and a difficult choice of location. He lost the two most violence-racked border states, Tamaulipas and Nuevo Leon, and he nearly lost Veracruz, another state where violence has recently skyrocketed. Moving a lot of soldiers into one of those states, or reassigning resources from another one, would probably anger residents who already oppose the PRI.
Mr. Hope adds that Mexico's federalist system means Mr. Pena Nieto will probably have to pay a hefty price to state and local leaders to persuade them to introduce any new security plan, possibly with expensive programs or infrastructure. Some analysts worry that putting the Pena Nieto security plan in place, along with other efforts to fulfill campaign promises, will bring an end to the fiscal restraint of the past decade.
''There is going to be a general opening of the purse strings,'' said Duncan Wood, a political analyst and a professor at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico.
What seems less likely are larger economic changes. Mr. Pena Nieto campaigned on a promise to double Mexico's growth rate to 6 percent. But his specific proposals -- loosening labor laws, improving the tax system and opening Pemex, the state-run oil company, to foreign investment -- all look harder to achieve now without a majority of congressional seats for the PRI.
The effort to change Pemex faces an especially tough battle because a two-thirds majority is needed for the constitutional changes that would open up the industry. Even within the PRI, Mr. Pena Nieto faces significant opposition to the idea, which the company's powerful union has also resisted change for years.
Mr. Pena Nieto, nonetheless, does not seem cowed. In his statements to supporters and reporters over the past few days, he has struck a conciliatory tone, saying that he hopes to work closely with opponents while ensuring transparency within his party. The PRI, it seems, after arguing that it is new and different, will now deal with the fact that Mexico itself has truly changed into a messy, complicated democracy in which presidents no longer control all.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (86%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); INTERNET VIDEO (66%); POISONINGS (63%); JOB CREATION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



130 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: Numbers Tell Of Failure In Drug War

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
When policy makers in Washington worry about Mexico these days, they think in terms of a handful of numbers: Mexico's 19,500 hectares devoted to poppy cultivation for heroin; its 17,500 hectares growing cannabis; the 95 percent of American cocaine imports brought by Mexican cartels through Mexico and Central America.
They are thinking about the wrong numbers. If there is one number that embodies the seemingly intractable challenge imposed by the illegal drug trade on the relationship between the United States and Mexico, it is $177.26. That is the retail price, according to Drug Enforcement Administration data, of one gram of pure cocaine from your typical local pusher. That is 74 percent cheaper than it was 30 years ago.
This number contains pretty much all you need to evaluate the Mexican and American governments' ''war'' to eradicate illegal drugs from the streets of the United States. They would do well to heed its message. What it says is that the struggle on which they have spent billions of dollars and lost tens of thousands of lives over the last four decades has failed. 
There is little reason to expect the elections this year will do much to address the challenges to the bilateral relationship. Enrique Pena Nieto, elected president of Mexico on Sunday, is a scion of Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary Party, which was tainted by authoritarianism, corruption and fraud during seven decades in power, before it was booted out by voters 12 years ago. In the United States, neither President Obama nor his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, has shown much interest in the nation's southern neighbor.
Yet the presidential elections on both sides of the border offer a unique opportunity to re-examine the central flaws of the two countries' strategy against illegal narcotics. Its threadbare victories -- a drug seizure here, a captured kingpin there -- pale against its cost in blood and treasure. And its collateral damage, measured in terms of social harm, has become too intense to ignore.
Most important, conceived to eradicate the illegal drug market, the war on drugs cannot be won. Once they understand this, the Mexican and American governments may consider refocusing their strategies to take aim at what really matters: the health and security of their citizens, communities and nations.
Prices match supply with demand. If the supply of an illicit drug were to fall, say because the Drug Enforcement Administration stopped it from reaching the nation's shores, we should expect its price to go up.
That is not what happened with cocaine. Despite billions spent on measures from spraying coca fields high in the Andes to jailing local dealers in Miami or Washington, a gram of cocaine cost about 16 percent less last year than it did in 2001. The drop is similar for heroin and methamphetamine. The only drug that has not experienced a significant fall in price is marijuana.
And it's not as if we've lost our taste for the stuff, either. About 40 percent of high school seniors admit to having taken some illegal drug in the last year -- up from 30 percent two decades ago, according to the Monitoring the Future survey, financed by the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
The use of hard drugs, meanwhile, has remained roughly stable over the last two decades, rising by a few percentage points in the 1990s and declining by a few percentage points over the last decade, with consumption patterns moving from one drug to another according to fashion and ease of purchase.
For instance, 2.9 percent of high school seniors admit to having tried cocaine in the last year, just slightly less than in 1992. About 15 percent of seniors said they abused a prescription drug last year. Twenty years ago, prescription drug abuse was not even consistently measured.
The only dimension along which the war on drugs might be conceived as a success is political. If you ask Americans how concerned they are about drugs, they will give you roughly the same answer they have given for years: not so much.
In a Gallup poll, only 31 percent of Americans said they thought the government was making much progress dealing with illegal drugs, the lowest share since 1997. But fewer people say they worry about drug abuse than 10 years ago. Only 29 percent of Americans think it is an extremely or very serious problem where they live, the lowest share in the last decade.
But the government has spent $20 billion to $25 billion a year on counternarcotics efforts over the last decade. That is a pretty high price tag for political cover, to stop drugs from becoming a prominent issue on voters' radar screen. It becomes unacceptably high if you add in the real costs of the drug wars. That includes more than 55,000 Mexicans and tens of thousands of Central Americans killed by drug-fueled violence since Mexico's departing president, Felipe Calderon, declared war six years ago against the traffickers ferrying drugs across the border.
And the domestic costs are enormous, too. Almost one in five inmates in state prisons and half of those in federal prisons are serving time for drug offenses. In 2010, 1.64 million people were arrested for drug violations. Four out of five arrests were for possession. Nearly half were for possession of often-tiny amounts of marijuana.
Harry Levine, a sociologist at Queens College of the City University of New York, told me that processing each of the roughly 85,000 arrests for drug misdemeanors in New York City last year cost the city $1,500 to $2,000. And that is just the cost to the budget. Hundreds of thousands of Americans, mostly black and poor, are unable to get a job, a credit card or even an apartment to rent because of the lasting stigma of a criminal record for carrying an ounce of marijuana.
Cracking down hard on drug users may sound great on the stump. But Americans who inject drugs are four times as likely to have H.I.V. as British addicts and seven times as likely as drug-injecting Swiss, mainly because the United States has been much slower in introducing needle exchanges and other measures to address the impact of drug abuse on public health.
The Obama administration acknowledges the limitations of the drug wars, and has shifted its priorities, focusing more on drug abuse prevention and treatment of addicts, and less on enforcement.
Still, many critics of the current policy believe the solution is to legalize -- to bring illegal drugs out of the shadows where they are controlled by criminal gangs, into the light of the legal market where they can be regulated and taxed by the government.
Jeffrey Miron, an economist at Harvard who studies drug policy closely, has suggested that legalizing all illicit drugs would produce net benefits to the United States of some $65 billion a year, mostly by cutting public spending on enforcement as well as through reduced crime and corruption.
A study by analysts at the RAND Corporation, a California research organization, suggested that if marijuana were legalized in California and the drug spilled from there to other states, Mexican drug cartels would lose about a fifth of their annual income of some $6.5 billion from illegal exports to the United States.
A growing array of Latin American presidents have asked for the United States to consider legalizing some drugs, like marijuana. Even Mr. Calderon is realizing the futility of the war against the narco-syndicates. He asked President Obama and the United States Congress last month to consider ''market solutions'' to reduce the cash flow to criminal groups.
Legalization may carry risks, too. Peter H. Reuter, one of the authors of the RAND study, who is now a professor of public policy in the department of criminology of the University of Maryland, said he worried that legalizing drugs would vastly expand drug abuse, leading to other potential social and health costs. Supporters of the war on drugs insist that without it, consumption would have soared to the heights of the 1980s and perhaps beyond.
There are other options. The Global Commission on Drug Policy, whose membership includes former presidents of Mexico, Colombia, Chile, Brazil and Poland, has called on national governments to ''depenalize'' if not necessarily legalize drug possession and sales.
This means stopping the arrest and imprisonment of people who use drugs but cause no harm to others, and going easy on small-scale dealers, whose arrest does nothing to dent the flow of illegal drugs. It means focusing enforcement efforts on reducing the violence of the drug trade, rather than eliminating the drug market itself. It may also entail giving drugs to the most addicted users, to get them into clinics and off the streets.
Such policies require a drastic change of approach in Mexico and the United States. Their governments could start by acknowledging that drug dependence is a complex condition that is not solved through punishment, and that numbers of addicts or dealers arrested, or tons of drugs seized, are hardly measures of success.
A war on drugs whose objective is to eradicate the drug market -- to stop drugs from arriving in the United States and stop Americans from swallowing, smoking, inhaling or injecting them -- is a war that cannot be won. What we care about is the harm that drugs, drug trafficking and drug policy do to individuals, society and even national security. Reducing this harm is a goal worth fighting for.
Correction: July 7, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart with the Economic Scene column on Wednesday, about the costs and failings of the United States' and Mexico's war on drugs, referred incompletely to the retail price of cocaine; the numbers referred to the price per gram. And some figures on inflation were labeled incorrectly. A corrected chart can be found at nytimes.com/economy.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Price of Failure: Despite the spending of hundreds of billions of dollars to eradicate them, drugs are cheaper and remain popular. (Sources: Office of National Drug Control Policy
 University of Michigan) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); HEROIN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); CANNABIS (77%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CARTELS (72%); METHAMPHETAMINE (72%); POLITICS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ANDES (50%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2012



131 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: In Silicon Valley, Chieftains Rule With Few Checks and Balances

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: The idea of the visionary chief executive dominates in Silicon Valley, and there may be little room for input from directors or shareholders. 

 BODY:
Silicon Valley is different, they say. One of the most economically creative and dynamic pockets of the United States, it is where entrepreneurs rule. Perhaps it is no surprise then that the men who hold sway in the Valley are now looking to transform not only the global economy but the way that public companies are run, locking out both public shareholders and directors.
That the call for shareholder rights is a refrain seldom heard in the Internet sector is not new. Since Google went public in 2004 in a way that maintained control for its founders, the leaders of Silicon Valley have been chary about shareholder voting rights.
In the latest wave of Internet initial public offerings, shareholder voting rights have become even more diminished. Facebook, Zynga, LinkedIn and Groupon all gave control of the company to the founding shareholders over public shareholders. Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook appears to have even negotiated arrangements that give him - or really, his heirs - control over some shares after his death. Google is planning to issue a class of nonvoting shares that will further disenfranchise shareholders, partly justifying its actions in its annual founders' letter as maintaining a governance structure that "is now somewhat standard among newer technology companies."
 To be fair to these companies, shareholders who invest in them do so with full knowledge that such a lack of control was disclosed.
But shareholders may accept these arrangements because they assume that a board will act independently. Directors are meant to act as a check on executives or at least add their expertise and advice to big decisions.
In the Valley, however, the idea of the visionary chief executive dominates, and there may be little room for input from directors.
This sentiment was voiced recently by Reed Hastings, the chief of Netflix and a director for Facebook and Microsoft. Speaking at the Stanford Directors' College, a yearly retreat where public company directors learn the art of being a director, he reportedly cast skepticism on the traditional board model.
According to Kevin M. LaCroix of the D&O Diary, "Hastings said several times that for the board of a large publicly traded company 'the fundamental job is to replace and compensate the C.E.O.' Where the company has the resources to hire outside consultants as needed, it is not the board's role to offer counsel or advice."
After resistance from the audience during questioning, Mr. LaCroix reported, Mr. Hastings backpedaled, stating that his remarks applied only to "the largest public companies" or "special situations" where a board was required to act. (Mr. Hastings did not respond to requests made through Netflix for a comment.)
Such a sentiment is at odds with what corporate governance advocates and others suggest for boards. Today, boards are expected to be actively involved in supervising executives and participating in major decisions affecting the company. This represents a revolution from the 1970s, when the chief executive ruled, directors were often cronies of the chief and boards were extremely deferential.
Mr. Hastings's attitude can be found elsewhere among Silicon Valley's new elite. When Mr. Zuckerberg negotiated to acquire Instagram for $1 billion, he reportedly told his board only about 24 hours before the deal was approved, appearing to present it as a fait accompli.
Even if these boards did feel free to challenge these founders, they are tight and interlocking. Two of the directors of Netflix sit on the board of LinkedIn. Reid Hoffman, the chairman and co-founder of LinkedIn, sits on the board of Zynga, which has a director who is a partner of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and sits on the boards of Klout and Amazon.com. Mr. Hastings is joined on the board of Facebook by Marc Andreessen, one of the biggest deal makers in Silicon Valley who sits on the board of eBay. And so on.
These directors all work in the same environment, often invest in one another's companies and have little incentive to challenge the chief executive because it will affect their own ability to serve as directors or participate in the next big thing in Silicon Valley.
Take Mr. Andreessen, who recently stated on the "Charlie Rose" show that the 28-year old Mr. Zuckerberg is one of the "best C.E.O.'s in the world." Between Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Hastings, one has to wonder how active the Facebook board is.
Another example of the incestuous Silicon Valley board comes from Mr. Hastings's own board at Netflix. Its members include the co-founder of Zillow, a professional director who sits on the Google board, two directors for LinkedIn and partners of Technology Crossover Ventures and Redpoint Ventures, two big venture capital players. It is a rather clubby Silicon Valley board.
But this does not necessarily mean that these entrepreneurs are wrong. Maybe boards are overrated in Silicon Valley, where technology moves quickly, innovation is a must and decision-making must be fast and creative for a company to survive. Presumably, these companies give control to their founders and chief executives because they have to act decisively. And these founders built these companies into successes. Why should they be subject to collective decision-making and oversight by a board? After all, boards of financial institutions didn't acquit themselves well during the financial crisis, and they were supposedly active, involved boards.
The counterargument is that a board willing to engage in vigorous debate prevents hubris and dumb decisions by chief executives. Mr. Hastings, for example, was heavily criticized for trying to split Netflix's Internet and DVD movie businesses, a decision he reversed after the public outcry. And the number of so-called visionary chieftains who made incredibly bad decisions is legion.
A board can serve as a check on executives and prevent abuse. The conceit is that an actively involved board leads to better decision-making and outcomes, an idea heatedly debated in the world of corporate governance. An active board may be particularly important in these tightly controlled companies where ego may get the better of decision-making. Not everyone can be Steve Jobs.
These companies may lack shareholders or directors to check executive behavior, but they are also free from becoming takeover bait, another important check. An active merger market in the 1980s worked as a disciplining force - pushing managers to shape up if their companies were performing poorly, under threat of a takeover attempt. The days are gone when a company like RJR Nabisco could spend lavishly on executive perks without consequence from a passive board. But these technology companies are controlled by small groups of shareholders and are unlikely to become takeover targets.
So the new thing in Silicon Valley appears to be for public companies to be run as private ones without significant input from boards and shareholders. This leaves the wunderkinder of the Internet free to run their companies without interference. The question is whether this is merely a bubble in corporate governance or a trend that will spread to the rest of corporate America.

        
New Share Class Gives Google Founders Tighter Control
        
A Big Bet on Zuckerberg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); DIVESTITURES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Facebook; Google; LinkedIn; Netflix; Reed Hastings; Zynga; Boards of Directors; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Venture Capital; Corporate Governance; Deal Professor; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); GROUPON INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); NETFLIX INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); REED HASTINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



132 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 3051 words

HEADLINE: Can China Follow U.S. Shift from Coal to Gas?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Can China follow the American pattern and cut warming emissions through a shift from coal to gas? 

 BODY:
Here's an effort to look ahead from a promising American environmental trend to a prospect for the same in China, starting with two observations.
First, the combination of abundant and cheap natural gas and tightening regulations on coal-burning power plants in the United States -- along with a general intensification of efforts to conserve energy -- has led with unpredicted speed to a remarkable, and likely persistent, drop in coal-based electricity generation and related decline in emissions of the most important greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide.
Second, several years ago, I heard that teams of Chinese engineers were spending months in Oklahoma to learn about hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, as a method for liberating gas and oil from previously untappable shale deposits. More recently, reports showed that China -- which was once considered gas poor -- now has estimated volumes greater than those of the United States (which are, as you know, enormous). This week China signaled that it may indeed be gearing up for an ambitious gas push. An article in China Daily, "Will China embrace a shale gas boom?," essentially answers its headline question with a resounding yes.
A few days ago, noting the latest estimates of the American CO2 emissions drop, I sent this question to a variety of analysts tracking China's energy and climate policies:
Has anyone assessed whether China would have the motivation and/or capacity to mirror what the U.S. is doing with shale gas? I can't think of a bigger potential shift in greenhouse gas emissions than China shifting aggressively from coal to gas. The motivations could include cost, pollution reduction (conventional pollutants, for health/economic benefits) and reduction in the need for coal imports.
The first thorough response to my question is from David Victor, the University of California, San Diego, energy and climate policy researcher and author of "Global Warming Gridlock." He weighed in with a broad and valuable "Your Dot" post on this and related questions: 
With all the difficulties in reaching a meaningful diplomatic agreement on climate change, people have started looking at other ways to get leverage on climate.
One of the most interesting changes afoot is the revolution in natural gas supplies linked to shale fracking. Worldwide, gas is plentiful, and the innovations in fracking have boosted potential supplies even further. Gas matters because it is a lot cleaner than other fuels, notably coal. When burned to make electricity, gas plants emit less than half the CO2 per unit electricity than coal. Gas is a lot cleaner on essentially all other pollutants as well, which helps explain why so many countries keen to clear the air are looking to add more gas to their energy systems.
In practice, so far only the U.S. has seen a big boom in supplies from shale gas because it is one of the few countries with the regulatory, market and technological contexts needed to encouraged hard-nosed business investment in fracking. These new supplies, along with a weak economy, has sent the price of natural gas plummeting. Projections for the price of natural gas made just 5 years ago typically assumed that the price of gas would exceed $6 per million BTU today. Today gas is trading at $2 to $3. Cheap gas, along with tighter regulation of pollution from existing coal-fired power plants has caused a massive shift in U.S. electric power generation from coal to gas. During the 2000s, coal was king and provided on average 49% of U.S. electricity. Gas, by contrast, average just 19% and had reached shares as low as 12%. By April 2012 all that changed, and for the first time in recorded history the share of gas and coal were now equal at 32%.
This trend has been unfolding very quickly-mainly in the last 11 months. Back in August 2011 coal's share was 42% (about equal to the average for all of 2011). Since then is has fallen off a cliff. The trends are striking, although they are so recent that we need to be careful not to draw too many firm and final lessons.
This big shift from coal to gas has had a huge impact on national emissions of warming gases. If the U.S. electric grid operated as it did in the 2000s with coal as king then annual national emissions would be 475 million metric tons of CO2 higher. To put that number into perspective, it's about double the size of the effort that the EU has made to comply with the Kyoto protocol. The EU has done a lot, unilaterally, to cut its emissions of warming gases. My estimate is that the extra effort, on top of what it would have done on its own, is probably about 200 million tonnes of CO2 per year. I'm no apologist for the failure of the U.S. to adopt meaningful national policies to address global warming, but accidentally the gas revolution in America is having a big impact.
(Wonk alert: my calculations here use average emission factors for 2010 computed from the AEO appendix tables A8 and A18 along with the breakdown in electric supply provided in the Monthly Energy Review, June 2012 edition table 7.2a. Emission factors are the ratio (by fuel) of CO2 emissions from the electric sector to net grid supplied generation. There's an under-bias in my numbers due to self consumption at power plants and especially because average emission factors understate emissions from older and smaller (higher heat rate and thus higher emissions) plants that have disproportionately been the ones shut down or not dispatched. Similarly, average factors probably overstate emissions from gas plants since much of the erosion in coal's base load share has come from the most efficient gas-fired power plants. Someone should work through the details some time with a real dispatch model that is run for mid 2000s conditions and today; my guess is that the details wash out.)
This trend can't go on forever, but the next few years could see even more reductions. The most recent Annual Energy Outlook (table A-18) sees total annual CO2 emissions from electricity declining another 260 million tonnes as coal keeps sliding off a cliff. Environmentalists will rejoice at this, but the trend is so swift that owners and operators of electric power systems are legitimately worrying about whether the decline of coal will undermine reliability of the electric grid and also make the nation too dependent on natural gas. The last time electric utilities and other investors bought lots of gas-fired plants in the late 1990s, a period when gas was also relatively cheap, there was fiscal bloodshed when gas prices skyrocketed.
Will these changes in the U.S. market affect the global picture for gas? There's a lot of talk these days about the U.S. becoming a big gas exporter. A few companies are readying projects that would export cheap American gas by compressing and cooling it to liquefied natural gas (LNG). That's unlikely to have much impact on the global picture any time soon for two reasons. One is that export LNG projects will be a tiny fraction of total U.S. gas consumption. Under a rosy scenario, maybe the U.S. would export perhaps 10 million tonnes of LNG per year within a decade or so. That's equal to just 2% of current U.S. gas consumption (per BP's bible, The Statistical Review of World Energy). The other is cost. While gas in America at $2 to $3 is historically cheap, it can't easily compete with countries like Qatar that are so rich in gas that the fuel is practically free. Once you add the cost of cooling, shipping and regasification, the full cost of LNG from America isn't that cheap compared with Qatari LNG (or other emerging powers, like Australia) in the most lucrative Asian and European markets. The effect of the gas revolution in America on world consumption of gas (and emissions) is less likely to be felt through American LNG exports and more likely to be seen as the rest of the world starts looking for cheap shale gas at home. Indeed, there's lot of interest in shale gas in Europe, India and China.
In the real world I suspect that this source of gas will emerge slowly because none of these markets has the conditions in place to encourage the kind of private sector drive that has made the gas revolution so dramatic in the US. It's also important to remember that there are lots of other sources of gas. China, for example, is still struggling to tap its coal bed methane and other sources of gas, and a viable large-scale business model for gas doesn't fully exist in that country. Shale gas is still down the list of the best ways for China to boost its gas supplies. The same is true of India, where a nightmare of gas pricing regulations and pipeline troubles hobble gas of any kind. In Europe, some countries are embracing shale; others, such as France, have banned fracking.
Gas isn't the only surprise in the U.S. energy system. Another is electric demand. Compared with the projections made back in 2005 (the so-called "Annual Energy Outlook" that the Energy Information Administration in the U.S. published) total demand today is about 8% lower-a savings of 150 million tonnes of CO2 annually. Much of that decline is due to the weak economy, but there's also an important (and probably rising) role for energy efficiency programs. Slack demand for electricity has been a big surprise to most experts.
There's a lot we can learn from the surprising gas revolution the U.S. Here are six lessons on my list:
First, the gas revolution reminds us of the work that Jesse Ausubel and colleagues have done on autonomous decarbonization. [Related link] Energy systems, on their own, shift from high carbon fuels. For a while, decarbonization across the world seemed to have stalled, but the discovery of shale gas fracking along with a host of other new gas sources (including lots of conventional gas, such as the big LNG projects in the Persian Gulf, West Africa and Australia) has perhaps put the world back on track. This autonomous decarbonization isn't enough, on its own, to stop global warming any time soon. Doing that will require lots of zero-carbon energy sources, such as nuclear and renewables. We're way off track to deliver those energy supplies in the needed massive quantities, but perhaps some pleasant surprises will appear. Lots of folks these days are hunting for pleasant surprises in renewables; don't forget nuclear. Many people in the rich industrialized countries have soured on nuclear power, which they see as dangerous and expensive. (Cheap gas makes nuclear look even costlier.) But a few reactors are being built here in the U.S. And in the countries where demand for electricity is rising quickly-like China-nuclear plants are a LOT cheaper to build. The best reactors in China and Korea cost about one-third that of building a similar plant in Europe or the U.S.
The coming years could see big trouble for renewable power, which has become overly dependent on subsidies, and a surprising rise in nuclear power. In a few weeks the lab I co-direct at U.C.S.D. will release a study on what it costs to build power plants. The numbers have shocked me-both because we know so little about how costs will change and because there is such huge variation around the world-and the shocks are the biggest for nuclear.
Second, the gas revolution isn't all roses. People have legitimate worries about the environmental impacts of fracking-notably on air and water. There are also some worrying signs that fracking operations might emit lots of greenhouse gases-which, if true, would negate much (perhaps all) of the climate change benefits from a shift to gas. My read of that literature is that those fears have been overblown and new estimates based on serious measurement will be more reassuring. Nonetheless, big gas producers must find ways to do their work in environmentally responsible ways and see regulation-including self-regulation-as an essential tool rather than a nuisance.
These worries are why environmentalists mostly aren't rejoicing at the gas revolution. Instead, they love renewables (and efficiency). A commercially viable renewables sector is a good goal, but for now it is important to keep the numbers in perspective. All the most loved renewables today-solar thermal, photovoltaic, geothermal and wind-provide about 139 billion kWh of electricity in the U.S. (That's 2011 data; wind is 87% of the total.) Just the in gas-fired electricity from 2005 to today is almost double today's entire lovable renewable power generation supply. We need a sober look at all sources of electricity.
Third, the gas revolution is a reminder that for most countries facts on the ground will have a much bigger impact on emissions that international diplomatic agreements. As diplomats look for new agreements they need treaties that are a lot more flexible and adjustable to these on-the-ground realities. Treaties based on rigid emission targets and timetables-as in the Kyoto treaty-stand little chance of working. A year ago I published a book on the state of global warming diplomacy that looks at alternative strategies in a lot more depth.
Fourth, there is growing interest in so-called "technology strategies" to address climate change. The gas revolution is a good poster child for the importance of technological innovation. Most of the key advances that make today's gas revolution possible-not just fracking but across the production and transmission of gas as well as in the ultra-efficient turbines that are today's best way to make electricity from gas-trace their origins back to publicly funded R&D in tandem with lots of private sector investment. Some people have unwisely taken that logic to the extreme and suggested that if the US and other innovating nations just pushed hard on technology that there wouldn't be much need for emission limits, cap and trade or carbon taxes.
That's too simplistic. There's no question that we need a big push on technology and that all nations, collectively, massively under-invest in energy R&D. But a technology push with no pull from the markets a recipe for waste. I like the carbon tax like the one Australia introduced this week to create an incentive not just to invent new low-carbon technologies but also to deploy them.
One implication for technology R&D policy is that in a world of cheap gas there's probably a lot of value in looking carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies for use on gas-fired power plants. To date, most CCS investment has focused on coal on the assumption that coal is cheap and that the technologies needed for CCS on gas are too expensive. That conventional view could change in a world where the full cost of burning coal is high and gas is cheap. Some of the technologies for CCS are generic-they work whether the original fuel is coal or gas-but others (including the costliest parts of CCS systems) must be tailored to the fuel. I've always thought that CCS was an inelegant way to lick the carbon problem-because it involves burning fuels and then corralling a huge mass of pollution rather than avoiding the pollution in the first place-but if gas is to be a real "bridge" to a low emission future rather than a nice-looking dead end then we must seriously explore ways to further cut emissions from gas plants. [.]
Fifth, all these surprises are a reminder of how much we don't know about how technology and markets will unfold. Earlier this year the Energy Information Administration published a rather brave study: a retrospective on how well its forecasters have done predicting things like demand for energy, the cost of oil and such. One lesson from that study is that a lot of forecasting is done by looking in the rear view mirror-forecasts typically start with current conditions, and as facts on the ground change radically so do the forecasts. Another lesson from that study is that the record of forecasting energy prices-gas in particular but also oil-is pretty abysmal. Since so much, even CO2, depends on relative energy prices we should be sober about what we can realistically predict for the future.
Sixth, I see the gas revolution as just one of a large class of strategies for getting serious about climate change in ways that are politically expedient. In a few countries and jurisdictions-such as Europe, California, and Vermont-people will invest lots of their own money to control emissions in an effort to slow global warming. But most of the world isn't so keen, yet, to spend handsomely on this global goal. I've always thought that the way to make progress on climate change, especially in "reluctant" countries like China and even the U.S., is to start by focusing on places where climate goals overlap with other national priorities-like clearing the air or making energy supplies more reliable. (For another example, focused on the tremendous potential for slowing climate change through action on soot, see the last issue of foreign affairs for an article co-authored with two colleagues here in La Jolla, V. Ramanathan and C. Kennel.) We probably can't lick global warming with self-interested actions alone, but at least we can point countries in the right direction and build political support for the deeper and more expensive cuts that will be essential.
As Victor notes, simply moving from coal to gas is hardly a climate solution on its own, and otherschallenge the idea that natural gas can serve as a bridge along the road to a post-fossil energy future.
And certainly if China's gas push comes with the same wasteful, leaky practices that American oil and gas companies have only slowly abandoned (and that still abound in Russia and elsewhere), that's not a reasonable bridge at all.
Nothing I, or anyone else writes, will change the reality that the gas age is here for many years to come. But my hope is that progress in avoiding environmental regrets can come through constructive discussion of ways to cut risks and waste and to sustain a long-term energy quest that extends beyond fossil fuels even while they remain abundant and cheap. That's no easy task.

        
Indoor Living and the Global Greenhouse
        
Energy Needs of China's Consumers Swamping Efficiency Gains
        
Is a Drop in U.S. CO2 a Blip or Trend?
        
When Coal Flows Between Countries, Who 'Owns' the CO2?
        
Can U.S., China Team Up on Climate, Energy?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); TRENDS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%) Carbon Dioxide; China; Climate Change; efficiency; energy; Global Warming; greenhouse gases; United States; Energy and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



133 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Indian Additions to NYC's Chocolate Scene

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA


HIGHLIGHT: Bringing masala milk chocolate to Soho and chocolate-covered cocoa puffs to the Lower East Side. 

 BODY:
New York stands out for having the largest concentration of high-end chocolate boutiques in the United States, and among them two Indian chocolate makers -- Shaineal Shah and Aditi Malhotra -- are fast becoming stars in the competitive and crowded world of chocolate.
"There are close to a 100 different chocolate stores in the city, with the bulk of them being individually owned," said Neill Alleva, co-author of "The Ultimate Guide to Finding Chocolate in New York City." Ms. Malhotra and Mr. Shah are the only Indians, and they stand out for their interpretations, Mr. Alleva said.
Mr. Shah, a 24-year-old Gujarati Jain who moved from Mumbai to Scarsdale, New York, when he was 10, fell into the world of chocolate thanks to a bad economy. "I studied finance in college and always planned to get a job in the field, but when I graduated in 2009, work was scarce," he said. Since he grew up watching his mother, Mona, a homemaker, make eggless cakes for family and friends as a side hobby (her cakes have been featured in Vogue India) and his dad cook hearty Jain meals, he was always interested in food.
He decided to learn how to make chocolate and recruited his mother to work with him. They spent a few months teaching themselves in their home kitchen before he enrolled at French Culinary Institute in Manhattan to hone his techniques.
When his confections were well received at trade shows, he was inspired to open his own store, which he did eight months ago. Xocolatti is a 110-square-foot sliver of a shop in Soho, and though Mr. Shah's mother helped him with the packaging and flavors, he runs the show and makes each piece by hand, starting at 7 a.m. every day at a factory in Port Chester, New York.
"The philosophy behind my chocolate is that it should please all of your senses," he said. "Each piece has a different color, smell and texture." His 16 truffles come in traditional flavors like hazelnut but also more unusual ones such as sake and orange tangerine. Then there's the distinct Indian influence in his work: a rose cardamom truffle and slates, or very thin bars, in a masala milk and saffron nut chikki flavors, and all his confections are eggless, in keeping with Jain traditions.
Unlike Mr. Shah, Aditi Malhotra, 27, grew up in the food business. Her grandfather and her father have run successful Indian restaurants in the New York City area since the early 1970s. Her family still owns two Akbar's, one in Long Island and one in Edison, New Jersey, which serve classic North Indian cuisine. "I used to hang out in the restaurant kitchen every day after school and was always experimenting so when it came time to choosing a career, I naturally leaned toward food," she said.
She went to hospitality school in Switzerland and then the French Culinary Institute in Manhattan before working in a series of jobs in New York, including a line cook at the Japanese restaurant Morimoto and a pastry chef with Pichet Ong. But she always yearned to establish her own roots, and as luck would have it, Christian Vautier, a Parisian chocolatier who also happened to be a family friend, approached her about opening a store in Manhattan that she would own and run but could use his name.
Ms. Malhotra flew to France to spend several months training with Mr. Vautier before opening her store three months ago in the hip Lower East Side in Manhattan.
The bi-level shop measures 500 square feet on each floor, with the street level serving as the whimsical retail space and cafe. Meanwhile, the basement is where each week Ms. Malhotra makes 1,000 pieces of her specialties like dark and white chocolate-covered cocoa puffs, truffles filled with raspberry, key lime and passion fruit and coated in coconut, tequila ganaches and chocolate fleur de sel caramels.
The shop just received its alcohol license, and Ms. Malhotra is introducing chocolate and alcohol pairings in the next few weeks. Confections average $2 to $4 apiece.
Prices average at $2.70 apiece, and Mr. Shah ships internationally. In fact, he says many of his online orders come from India.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%) Vautier, Christian; Chocolate; Indian-Americans; Christian Vautier Le Concept (Manhattan, NY, Restaurant); Lower East Side (NYC); Manhattan (NYC); New York City; SoHo (NYC); NYCDesi

ORGANIZATION: Christian Vautier Le Concept (Manhattan, NY, Restaurant)

PERSON: Vautier, Christian

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (75%) Lower East Side (NYC); Manhattan (NYC); New York City; SoHo (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



134 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: District of Columbia's Demographics Change, but Democratic Voting Doesn't

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: No Democrat has won with less than a 62-point margin since the District of Columbia began participating in presidential elections in 1964. 

 BODY:
If New Hampshire is a light-blue state and Massachusetts is a dark-blue one, perhaps electoral cartographers should come up with a color of its own for the District of Columbia. In 1980, Ronald Reagan lost the district to Jimmy Carter, by 13 percent to 75 percent. That 62-percentage-point margin is the closest a Republican candidate has come since Washington began participating in presidential elections in 1964.
The 2012 election will be no different. On Nov. 6, President Obama will win an overwhelming share of the vote. 
It isn't hard to figure out why. Washington is a city, and a city with a large black community. Most cities vote Democratic, and many do so overwhelmingly. But those that vote Democratic by the widest margins of all, like Oakland, Newark, Washington and Detroit, are usually those with the largest black populations.
Black residents became a majority in Washington in the 1960 census, but they always made up a large portion of Washington's population. In the 1790s, about 1 in 4 Washington residents were black. In the 1970s, the black population peaked at 71 percent, after many white residents moved to the suburbs.
Over the last decade, however, Washington's economy has thrived, and young, affluent, mostly white professionals have flooded into the city. Highly educated new residents flowed into downtown neighborhoods like Chinatown and the Penn Quarter, forming white pluralities. Forty-nine percent of adults in the District of Columbia now have a college degree.
At the same time, many middle-class black families have followed the opposite path and moved to suburban communities in Maryland and Virginia. And the high-income newcomers have forced rents and property taxes up in many neighborhoods, pushing out less wealthy longtime residents, many of them black.
The 2010 census found the city's black majority barely intact, and demographers have reported that the black share of the population may have fallen below 50 percent since then.
Calls to limit gentrification of black neighborhoods have increased. In a city where the electoral choice is between left and further left, many voters now judge local candidates by whether they seem to represent new residents or old, Ms. Norton said. The city is plagued by gaps in both education and income.
But the changing racial makeup of Washington has not changed its voting patterns -- almost everyone still votes for the Democrat. Washington has a large number of students and faculty members at colleges and universities. And, of course, it has a large number of public-sector workers, another core Democratic constituency.
Both longtime and new Washingtonians share unhappiness over the district's lack of a voting member of Congress, said Ms. Norton, who can serve on committees and speak on the House floor but cannot vote on legislation. Efforts to give Washington's representative voting rights in Congress have come close to success, but have so far failed. More than 600,000 Washingtonians are still taxed without representation, or at least without voting representation. 
So on Independence Day, a holiday marking, in part, the struggle for political representation, Ms. Norton was planning to walk in a Fourth of July parade. But, while most people would be carrying an American flag, "I will be waving a District of Columbia flag" to symbolize Washingtonians' struggle for full voting rights, she said.
The Bottom Line
Unless Mitt Romney personally beats back an alien invasion -- and maybe not even then -- Mr. Obama will win the District of Columbia's three electoral votes.

        
In West Virginia, Coal Means More, Party Less
        
Presidential Geography: Georgia
        
Signs of Shift Among African-Americans on Same-Sex Marriage
        
Arizona Is (Probably) Not a Swing State
        
Romney Could Net 50 Delegates From Maryland and D.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CENSUS (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%) D.C.; political geography; President Obama; Washington; Politics; Presidential Geography

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



135 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: District of Columbia's Demographics Change, but Democratic Voting Doesn't

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: No Democrat has won with less than a 62-point margin since the District of Columbia began participating in presidential elections in 1964. 

 BODY:
If New Hampshire is a light-blue state and Massachusetts is a dark-blue one, perhaps electoral cartographers should come up with a color of its own for the District of Columbia. In 1980, Ronald Reagan lost the district to Jimmy Carter by 61 percentage points. That is the closest a Republican candidate has come since Washington began participating in presidential elections in 1964.
The 2012 election will be no different. On Nov. 6, President Obama will win an overwhelming share of the vote. 
It isn't hard to figure out why. Washington is a city, and a city with a large black community. Most cities vote Democratic, and many do so overwhelmingly. But those that vote Democratic by the widest margins of all, like Oakland, Newark, Washington and Detroit, are usually those with the largest black populations.
Black residents became a majority in Washington in the 1960 census, but they always made up a large portion of Washington's population. In the 1790s, about 1 in 4 Washington residents were black. In the 1970s, the black population peaked at 71 percent, after many white residents moved to the suburbs.
Over the last decade, however, Washington's economy has thrived, and young, affluent, mostly white professionals have flooded into the city. Highly educated new residents flowed into downtown neighborhoods like Chinatown and the Penn Quarter, forming white pluralities. Forty-nine percent of adults in the District of Columbia now have a college degree.
At the same time, many middle-class black families have followed the opposite path and moved to suburban communities in Maryland and Virginia. And the high-income newcomers have forced rents and property taxes up in many neighborhoods, pushing out less wealthy longtime residents, many of them black.
The 2010 census found the city's black majority barely intact, and demographers have reported that the black share of the population may have fallen below 50 percent since then.
Calls to limit gentrification of black neighborhoods have increased. In a city where the electoral choice is between left and further left, many voters now judge local candidates by whether they seem to represent new residents or old, Ms. Norton said. The city is plagued by gaps in both education and income.
But the changing racial makeup of Washington has not changed its voting patterns -- almost everyone still votes for the Democrat. Washington has a large number of students and faculty members at colleges and universities. And, of course, it has a large number of public-sector workers, another core Democratic constituency.
Both longtime and new Washingtonians share unhappiness over the district's lack of a voting member of Congress, said Ms. Norton, who can serve on committees and speak on the House floor but cannot vote on legislation. Efforts to give Washington's representative voting rights in Congress have come close to success, but have so far failed. More than 600,000 Washingtonians are still taxed without representation, or at least without voting representation. 
So on Independence Day, a holiday marking, in part, the struggle for political representation, Ms. Norton was planning to walk in a Fourth of July parade. But, while most people would be carrying an American flag, "I will be waving a District of Columbia flag" to symbolize Washingtonians' struggle for full voting rights, she said.
The Bottom Line
Unless Mitt Romney personally beats back an alien invasion -- and maybe not even then -- Mr. Obama will win the District of Columbia's three electoral votes.

        
In West Virginia, Coal Means More, Party Less
        
Presidential Geography: Georgia
        
Signs of Shift Among African-Americans on Same-Sex Marriage
        
Arizona Is (Probably) Not a Swing State
        
Romney Could Net 50 Delegates From Maryland and D.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); CENSUS (74%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%) D.C.; political geography; President Obama; Washington; Politics; Presidential Geography

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012



136 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Space, the Missing Frontier

BYLINE: DOUGLAS MACKINNON


HIGHLIGHT: The presidential candidates should take the threat posed by China's exploratory program seriously. 

 BODY:
As most of us who have worked in and around politics for any length of time know, if a certain issue is not an immediate vote-getter or "tangible" for a politician, there is a better than even chance that the issue will be ignored or deposited upon the furthest back-burner.
For many of our elected officials, everyday political calculation comes down to this: "What's best for my re-election and what's best for my party?" In that order. With fewer and fewer people in power whose first thought is: "What's the best decision I can make that will be in the best interests of my constituents?" It's no wonder that more young people are giving up on politics while their elders abandon the political parties to become Independents.
While the if-it's-not-tangible-and-I-can't-game-it-immediately-to-my-benefit test may be great for a politician, it's often very bad for the country. "Tangible" being political slang for "that federal office building will now be located in my district."
As for the "non-tangible," a great example would be our space program. Or to be more accurate, our non-space program. It has never really been relevant for most of our politicians or presidents. The truth is that only one president really thought that space exploration was a tangible national vote-getter.
Whatever his real motivation, on Sept.12, 1962 at Rice University, John F. Kennedy stated in no uncertain terms that in the interests of science, industry and national security, the United States would become the "world's leading spacefaring nation." And so we did - for nearly five decades.
Today, that preeminence is nothing more than a fading memory. While President Obama - who as a candidate made it very clear that he valued education over space exploration - may have pushed our human spaceflight program over the cliff, other presidents led it to the edge.
With Florida a key battleground state in the presidential election, the White House and the political appointees at NASA will argue furiously that the president has not walked away from our human space program. They will point to his plans to land astronauts on the asteroids one day. Right. That goal, exactly like George H.W. Bush's plan in 1989 to send astronauts to Mars, is simply fiction.
I worked in politics for a long time, but I began life as a space geek. I started a scrapbook on the Soviet space program when I was 10 and decades later got to write a book about the 12 men who have walked on the moon. After my time in government, I worked as a consultant for NASA and the Space Shuttle team. In other words, I admit that I have always been a fan of humans in space. Any humans in space.
That said, the humans who are now winning the space race come from the People's Republic of China. It is clear from their own propaganda that China means to replace us as the "world's leading spacefaring nation."
It has been argued in the past that while the United States and other Western nations see the future in terms of months or years, the Chinese see it in terms of decades or even centuries. With that perspective in mind, the Chinese government intends to win not the space race, but the space marathon. They intend to take military, industrial and scientific advantage there.
After the just completed launch and recovery of China's first female astronaut - Liu Yang, who with two male astronauts, was part of a very successful 13 day mission to dock with a Chinese space station - many in the media covered it as a human-interest story or even a politically correct equal-rights story. Nice, but the completely wrong way to view the Chinese achievement.
Nave and irresponsible beliefs aside, China's space program is essentially military. Its every function is designed to carry out a military objective or one that improves the welfare of the state. Nothing else matters to the Chinese leadership.
Toward that end, the Chinese government has been investing a great deal of time and talent in a wide range of anti-satellite weapons and technologies. Aside from direct ascent kinetic kill vehicles (like the one it tested in 2007), the Chinese military space program is also working on laser, jamming, microwave and cyber-weapons.
Why? Because the Chinese leadership - the same leadership that has made hacking our military and commercial computers a priority - understands that no nation on earth is more dependent for its overall survival on its satellites than the United States. Satellites control our military communications, our financial transactions and our day-to-day lives. What if they went dark or were destroyed in orbit?
The Chinese leaders - and others - would certainly say that a military advantage in space is "tangible" and a goal worth attaining. But preeminence is space is about much more than military advantage. Neil deGrasse Tyson, the director of the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History in New York, outlined that argument when he told Popular Science earlier this year:
If China sets up a permanent base on the moon, and tries to explore Mars on a time scale shorter than ours, that will be another space race. I am just certain of it. I am trying to get people to do this without having to view it as an act of war, or an act of a response to an adversary. One way is because of economics; the government could do this, and they could say, "The economic return is the scientists and technologists who invent the new tomorrow." Space exploration is the carrot that incites people to become scientifically literate. So I view it as an economic development plan.
Maybe it's time for the president and his Republican opponent to elevate a few issues to the "tangible" list regardless of personal or partisan self-interest. As China launches military satellite after military satellite while declaring its intention to colonize the moon, maybe preeminence in space should be one of them.
During the transition period after he defeated John McCain, Obama contemplated combining the best of the space programs at the Pentagon and NASA to compete with the rapidly accelerating Chinese space program. For whatever reasons, he declined to follow through on that plan when he became president.
The president should dust off those plans. Given the fact that during the height of the war in Iraq, our government was spending nearly a billion dollars a day, I suspect the American people would support spending a month's worth of that budget every year to ensure that our assets in space and our future on earth are more secure. But to support it, they first need to be convinced of its importance. So do our leaders.

        
For Obama, It's About the Children
        
The Politics of Going to College
        
Take Back the Senate, Senators
        
Could Defeat in Court Help Obama Win?
        
Silencing the Guns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (86%); SPACE INDUSTRY (86%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%) China; NASA; President Obama; satellites; Space; Liu Yang; Tyson, Neil DeGrasse; Defense and Military Forces; United States Defense and Military Forces; Defense Department; National Aeronautics and Space Administration

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (84%) Defense Department; National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Liu Yang; Tyson, Neil DeGrasse

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); MARS (74%) UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



137 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: VW to Buy Remaining Shares In Porsche

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Volkswagen says it is able to proceed with its deal to to buy the 50.1 percent stake in Porsche's automotive business that it does not already own for 4.46 billion euros ($5.6 billion). 
Volkswagen said Wednesday that it had reached an agreement with German tax authorities allowing the deal to go forward, ending a seven-year takeover ordeal that had divided two of Germany's most powerful families.
The cash deal is based on an equity value of 3.88 billion euros and also includes what the Porsche holding company would have received in dividend payments and half of the forecast synergies from the combination.
The agreement means Volkswagen can now fully fold the Porsche automaking business into its stable of brands, which includes Audi and Ducati motorbikes. The companies agreed to combine in 2009 after Porsche accumulated more than 10 billion euros of debt in an unsuccessful attempt to take over VW.
''We can now cooperate even more closely and jointly leverage new growth opportunities in the high-margin premium segment,'' VW's chief, Martin Winterkorn, said. ''Combining their operating business will make Volkswagen and Porsche even stronger -- both financially and strategically.''
VW said it expected Porsche's automaking business to be fully consolidated in its accounts from Aug. 1. Porsche's earnings contribution for this year will be mainly offset by the purchase price, VW said.
By revaluing its existing shares in Porsche, VW expects to book a noncash gain of about 9 billion euros and predicts a liquidity drain on its automaking division of about 7 billion euros.
The companies scrapped the plan for a full merger last year with the Porsche holding company, which is controlled by the Piech-Porsche family and still owns 50.7 percent of VW's common stock, because of lawsuits against Porsche in the United States and Germany over the failed VW takeover.
The deal announced Wednesday allows VW to buy Porsche's auto business without having to pay the taxes associated with exercising a put-call option it had taken to buy the stake. The agreement will result in 320 million euros in additional synergies because of the earlier completion.
Porsche's efforts starting in 2005 to take over Volkswagen split the controlling family. Ferdinand Piech, VW's chairman, crossed his cousin Wolfgang Porsche to thwart the plan, which fell apart after Porsche's debt rose in the middle of the financial crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); MERGERS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FAMILY (76%); DIVIDENDS (75%); COMMON STOCK (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); PORSCHE HOLDING GMBH (57%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



138 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: In Silicon Valley, Chieftains Hold Sway With Few Checks and Balances

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Silicon Valley is different, they say. One of the most economically creative and dynamic pockets of the United States, it is where entrepreneurs rule. Perhaps it is no surprise then that the men who hold sway in the Valley are now looking to transform not only the global economy but the way that public companies are run, locking out both public shareholders and directors.
That the call for shareholder rights is a refrain seldom heard in the Internet sector is not new. Since Google went public in 2004 in a way that maintained control for its founders, the leaders of Silicon Valley have been chary about shareholder voting rights.
In the latest wave of Internet initial public offerings, shareholder voting rights have become even more diminished. Facebook, Zynga, LinkedIn and Groupon all gave control of the company to the founding shareholders over public shareholders. Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook appears to have even negotiated arrangements that give him - or really, his heirs - control over some shares after his death. Google is planning to issue a class of nonvoting shares that will further disenfranchise shareholders, partly justifying its actions in its annual founders' letter as maintaining a governance structure that ''is now somewhat standard among newer technology companies.'' 
To be fair to these companies, shareholders who invest in them do so with full knowledge that such a lack of control was disclosed.
But shareholders may accept these arrangements because they assume that a board will act independently. Directors are meant to act as a check on executives or at least add their expertise and advice to big decisions.
In the Valley, however, the idea of the visionary chief executive dominates, and there may be little room for input from directors.
This sentiment was voiced recently by Reed Hastings, the chief of Netflix and a director for Facebook and Microsoft. Speaking at the Stanford Directors' College, a yearly retreat where public company directors learn the art of being a director, he reportedly cast skepticism on the traditional board model.
According to Kevin M. LaCroix of the D&O Diary, ''Hastings said several times that for the board of a large publicly traded company 'the fundamental job is to replace and compensate the C.E.O.' Where the company has the resources to hire outside consultants as needed, it is not the board's role to offer counsel or advice.''
After resistance from the audience during questioning, Mr. LaCroix reported, Mr. Hastings backpedaled, stating that his remarks applied only to ''the largest public companies'' or ''special situations'' where a board was required to act. (Mr. Hastings did not respond to requests made through Netflix for a comment.)
Such a sentiment is at odds with what corporate governance advocates and others suggest for boards. Today, boards are expected to be actively involved in supervising executives and participating in major decisions affecting the company. This represents a revolution from the 1970s, when the chief executive ruled, directors were often cronies of the chief and boards were extremely deferential.
Mr. Hastings's attitude can be found elsewhere among Silicon Valley's new elite. When Mr. Zuckerberg negotiated to acquire Instagram for $1 billion, he reportedly told his board only about 24 hours before the deal was approved, appearing to present it as a fait accompli.
Even if these boards did feel free to challenge these founders, they are tight and interlocking. Two of the directors of Netflix sit on the board of LinkedIn. Reid Hoffman, the chairman and co-founder of LinkedIn, sits on the board of Zynga, which has a director who is a partner of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and sits on the boards of Klout and Amazon.com. Mr. Hastings is joined on the board of Facebook by Marc Andreessen, one of the biggest deal makers in Silicon Valley who sits on the board of eBay. And so on.
These directors all work in the same environment, often invest in one another's companies and have little incentive to challenge the chief executive because it will affect their own ability to serve as directors or participate in the next big thing in Silicon Valley.
Take Mr. Andreessen, who recently stated on the ''Charlie Rose'' show that the 28-year old Mr. Zuckerberg is one of the ''best C.E.O.'s in the world.'' Between Mr. Andreessen and Mr. Hastings, one has to wonder how active the Facebook board is.
Another example of the incestuous Silicon Valley board comes from Mr. Hastings's own board at Netflix. Its members include the co-founder of Zillow, a professional director who sits on the Google board, two directors for LinkedIn and partners of Technology Crossover Ventures and Redpoint Ventures, two big venture capital players. It is a rather clubby Silicon Valley board.
But this does not necessarily mean that these entrepreneurs are wrong. Maybe boards are overrated in Silicon Valley, where technology moves quickly, innovation is a must and decision-making must be fast and creative for a company to survive. Presumably, these companies give control to their founders and chief executives because they have to act decisively. And these founders built these companies into successes. Why should they be subject to collective decision-making and oversight by a board? After all, boards of financial institutions didn't acquit themselves well during the financial crisis, and they were supposedly active, involved boards.
The counterargument is that a board willing to engage in vigorous debate prevents hubris and dumb decisions by chief executives. Mr. Hastings, for example, was heavily criticized for trying to split Netflix's Internet and DVD movie businesses, a decision he reversed after the public outcry. And the number of so-called visionary chieftains who made incredibly bad decisions is legion.
A board can serve as a check on executives and prevent abuse. The conceit is that an actively involved board leads to better decision-making and outcomes, an idea heatedly debated in the world of corporate governance. An active board may be particularly important in these tightly controlled companies where ego may get the better of decision-making. Not everyone can be Steve Jobs.
These companies may lack shareholders or directors to check executive behavior, but they are also free from becoming takeover bait, another important check. An active merger market in the 1980s worked as a disciplining force - pushing managers to shape up if their companies were performing poorly, under threat of a takeover attempt. The days are gone when a company like RJR Nabisco could spend lavishly on executive perks without consequence from a passive board. But these technology companies are controlled by small groups of shareholders and are unlikely to become takeover targets.
So the new thing in Silicon Valley appears to be for public companies to be run as private ones without significant input from boards and shareholders. This leaves the wunderkinder of the Internet free to run their companies without interference. The question is whether this is merely a bubble in corporate governance or a trend that will spread to the rest of corporate America.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (92%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); GROUPON INC (56%); NETFLIX INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); REED HASTINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



139 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Oil Backed Up, Iranians Put It On Idled Ships

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK and CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Thomas Erdbrink reported from Bandar Abbas, and Clifford Krauss from Houston.

 BODY:
BANDAR ABBAS, Iran -- The hulking tanker Neptune was floating aimlessly this week in the warm waters of the Persian Gulf, a fresh coat of black paint barely concealing its true identity as an Iranian ship loaded with hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil that no one is willing to buy.
The ship's real name was Iran Astaneh, and it was part of a fleet of about 65 Iranian tankers serving as floating storage facilities for Iranian oil, each one given a nautical makeover to conceal its origin and make a buyer easier to find. The Neptune had been floating there for a month, and local fishermen said there were two even larger tankers anchored nearby.
Iran, faced with increasingly stringent economic sanctions imposed by the international community to force it to abandon any ambitions to develop nuclear weapons, has been reluctant to reduce its oil production, fearing that doing so could damage its wells. But Iran has insufficient space to store the crude it cannot sell. So while it furiously works to build storage capacity on shore, it has turned to mothballing at sea. 
''We have never seen so many just waiting around,'' said Rostam, a fisherman and smuggler who regularly works these waters.
After years of defiance and insistence that sanctions were barely being felt at home, Iranians are acknowledging the latest round with growing alarm. President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday that they were ''the strongest yet.''
International oil experts say Iranian exports have already been cut by at least a quarter since the beginning of the year, costing Iran roughly $10 billion so far in forgone revenues. Many experts say the pain is only beginning, since oil prices have been falling and Iran's sales should drop even more with the European embargo that went into effect on Sunday.
''They are getting squeezed,'' said Sadad Al Husseini, former executive vice president for exploration and development of Saudi Aramco, the state oil company. ''It's too much trouble to buy Iranian oil. Why alienate the United States and Europe? And the rest of OPEC is not very happy with Iran either.''
On Wednesday, a Kenyan oil official told Reuters that the country was canceling an agreement to import up to 80,000 barrels of oil a day from Iran after Britain warned Kenya that it could run afoul of the sanctions. Meanwhile, South Korea said its imports of Iranian oil fell by nearly 50 percent in May, compared with April.
The drop in crude sales has hit Tehran with multiple challenges. Besides the financial impact, Iran has to figure out what to do with all the oil it continues to produce. Iran is pumping about 2.8 million barrels a day -- already down about one million barrels daily since the start of the year. But it is exporting only an estimated 1.6 to 1.8 million barrels a day.
The unsold crude is being stored in what has been estimated to be two-thirds of the Iranian tanker fleet. Most of the ships are sailing in circles around the Persian Gulf as Iran tries to sell the mostly heavy crude at bargain-basement prices.
International oil experts estimate that Iran is now warehousing as much as 40 million barrels -- roughly two weeks of production -- on the tankers. An additional 10 million barrels are in storage on shore.
''We are now forced to sell our most valuable export product in secret,'' said Nader Karimi Joni, an Iranian journalist specializing in oil. ''Iran had a great reputation; now we have to falsify bills of lading, hide the oil's origin and store oil on ships.''
The subterfuge operates on several levels, but here, on the waters off Bandar Abbas, it is all about the tanker, Neptune. Beneath the fresh black paint, the ship's hulk bore the name in English and Persian of the tanker company, NITC.
The ship, one of Iran's smallest, was built in 2000 in South Korea. It carried no flag, and its home port -- Bushehr -- had first been changed to Valletta, Malta, which had also been painted over. It now said Funafuti, the capital of the Pacific Ocean island nation of Tuvalu.
To conceal their positions -- and perhaps to hide just how many loaded ships are at sea -- Iran's oil tankers also frequently turn off their GPS tracking devices, according to IHS Fairplay, a London-based ship tracking data company. It mapped out the last-known destinations of all NITC tankers, including the Iran Astaneh, and concluded that 21 were last seen in the Persian Gulf.
''I hear there are a lot more up north close to the oil terminals,'' said Rostam, the smuggler, as he pulled his small craft up alongside the tanker.
Smugglers regularly zip across the Strait of Hormuz in small speedboats to the northern tip of Oman, Rostam and others said, picking up boxes of all kinds of black-market goods. Along the way, Rostam said, he sees the physical evidence of growing tension in the narrow waterway where one-fifth of the world's oil must travel to get to market.
''We constantly run into United States Navy,'' Rostam said. ''They only stop us when our boat is filled with people. Not when we are shipping merchandise.''
Iran's Revolutionary Guards navy is also present in the waters and has its headquarters in this port city, he said. The Iranian Navy operates mainly speedboats with missile launchers mounted on top, intending to swarm much larger American Navy ships with dozens of such boats in case of a confrontation.
Such conflict has happened before, and a defeat prompted Iran to change its navy's military doctrine. During a one-day conflict in these waters in 1988 between Iran and the United States, one Iranian frigate was sunk, while Iranian forces claimed to have brought down an American helicopter. Some months later, an American Navy ship shot down an Iranian civilian airliner, killing 290 people, an event that Iran commemorated on Monday. The country maintains the plane was deliberately shot down, while the United States says it was an accident.
The prospect of a confrontation now could grow as the pressure builds on Iran while the sanctions, and dropping oil prices, cut deeper into Tehran's financial lifeline.
Oil prices have fallen by nearly 10 percent since the beginning of the year -- and roughly 20 percent from their peak in March -- because of weakening demand from Europe, the United States and parts of the developing world, as well as increased production from Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Libya. Oil experts estimate that Iran's oil export revenues are down about 35 percent compared with the beginning of the year.
Increasingly, Iran's officials are warning its citizens to prepare for tough times ahead. On Monday, Ali Akbar Salehi, Iran's foreign minister, made comparisons to the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq when he discussed with reporters the mounting pressures on Iran.
Iran's vice president, Mohammad-Reza Rahimi, speaking during a religious conference on Sunday, said his country would never be stopped, and he asked for people's support, state television reported. ''Today, we are facing the heaviest of sanctions, and we ask people to help officials in this battle,'' he said.
Aboard the Neptune, the crew knew what that meant: killing more time baby-sitting for crude at sea. On Sunday, members of the crew trudged out beneath a blazing sun and hauled up the anchor. They knew they were not going anywhere, but they took the opportunity to clean off the rust. Then they shouted to passengers in a skiff below, trying to make a joke.
''Wait five minutes,'' a sailor said. ''When we drop anchor again, you'll get great pictures.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A closer look at the ''Neptune,'' an oil tanker afloat in the Persian Gulf last week, revealed that it was really the Iran Astaneh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS ERDBRINK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAP: An estimated 65 Iranian tankers are being used to store oil. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); SMUGGLING (75%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%)

COMPANY: SAUDI ARAMCO (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); GULF STATES (93%); KENYA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EUROPE (76%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



140 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Doughnuts Defeating Poverty

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
MASUMBA, Malawi
If you want to understand some of the best new ideas to chip away at global poverty, an excellent place to start is the Nasoni family hut here in the southern African nation of Malawi.
Alfred Nasoni and his wife, Biti Rose, have had seven children in this village of Masumba. Two died without ever seeing a doctor. Alfred and Biti Rose pulled their eldest son out of school in the fourth grade because, they said, they couldn't afford $5 in school costs for a term. And they farmed only part of their 2.5 acre plot because they lacked money for seeds.
Yet poverty is sometimes romanticized, and it's more complicated than that. Alfred, 45, told me that even as his children were starving, he spent an average of $2 a week on local moonshine and 50 cents on cigarettes. He added that he also spent $2 or more a week buying sex from local girls -- even though AIDS is widespread. 
All this hints at an uncomfortable truth: The suffering associated with poverty is sometimes caused not only by low incomes but also by self-destructive pathologies. In central Kenya, a recently published government study found that men, on average, spent more of their salaries on alcohol than on food.
It's a vicious circle: despair leads people to self-medicate in ways that compound the despair.
Yet there are escape hatches. In 2005, Biti Rose joined a village savings group founded by CARE, the international aid group. These ''village savings and loans'' are among the hottest ideas in development work. They now serve some six million people in 58 countries.
After recent financial crises, plenty of Americans love to hate banks, but many of the world's poor don't have that luxury: more than 2.5 billion people worldwide don't have a bank account, according to a landmark World Bank report, ''Measuring Financial Inclusion.''
The poor typically receive a pile of cash once or twice a year, at the end of a harvest, and then have no good way to save it. That increases the risk that some of it will be squandered.
In some African countries, cellphones are emerging as the new banking system. But here, and in much of the world, the solution is savings groups like Biti Rose's. She and 19 other members met weekly and each deposited the equivalent of about 10 cents. The money was then lent out to members, and CARE coached them on how to start small businesses.
With a loan of $2, Biti Rose started making and selling a local version of doughnuts, which she initially sold for 2 cents each. ''People really liked my doughnuts,'' she noted, and soon she was making several dollars a day in profit. Inspired by her example, Alfred began growing vegetables and selling them; he turned out to be a shrewd businessman as well.
Seeing an upward trajectory in the family fortunes, Alfred cut out the girlfriends and curbed his drinking, he says.
Biti Rose and Alfred then had the resources to buy seed and fertilizer for all their own land and to lease an additional two acres as well. These days, they hire up to 10 farm laborers to work for them. In the old days, they harvested less than one bag of corn a year; this year, their harvest filled seven ox carts.
All savers aren't that successful, of course, but there's no doubt that the nudge to save money and start businesses can be transformative and self-sustaining. CARE moved on in 2009 to take its model to more needy areas in Malawi, but the savings groups around this village multiplied anyway. Other farmers envied Biti Rose and Alfred replacing their leaky grass roof with a tin one, and they decided to start their own savings groups. The idea has even spread, without CARE's help, across the border to villages in Mozambique.
Yet I think there's something going on here beyond microsavings and entrepreneurship. Esther Duflo, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and co-author of an exceptionally good book called ''Poor Economics,'' argues that outside interventions sometimes work partly when they give poor people hope. That's precisely what I've seen in many countries: Assistance succeeds when it gives people a feeling that a better outcome is possible, and those hopes become self-fulfilling as people work more industriously and invest more wisely.
For Alfred and Biti Rose, their hopes are now focused on their younger children (the oldest has married). Biti Rose never went to school at all, but she is planning to send her younger children to university.
She is also planning future purchases, including the first television in the area. But don't think Biti Rose is going to kick back. She sees the TV as an investment.
''I'm a businesswoman,'' she said firmly. ''I can't give anything away. If there's a soccer match or something, anybody who comes in my house to watch will have to pay a fee.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); STARVATION (78%); MEN (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAWI (94%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



141 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Olympian Arrogance

BYLINE: By JULES BOYKOFF and ALAN TOMLINSON. 
Jules Boykoff, an associate professor of political science at Pacific University, is writing a book on dissent and the Olympics. Alan Tomlinson is a professor of leisure studies at the University of Brighton.

 BODY:
Brighton, England
WHILE Europe roils in economic turmoil, London is preparing for a lavish jamboree of international good will: in a few weeks, the city will host the 2012 Summer Olympics.
But behind the spectacle of athletic prowess and global harmony, brass-knuckle politics and brute economics reign. At this nexus sits the International Olympic Committee, which promotes the games and decides where they will be held. Though the I.O.C. has been periodically tarnished by scandal -- usually involving the bribing and illegitimate wooing of delegates -- those embarrassments divert us from a deeper problem: the organization is elitist, domineering and crassly commercial at its core.
The I.O.C., which champions itself as a democratic ''catalyst for collaboration between all parties of the Olympic family,'' is nonetheless run by a privileged sliver of the global 1 percent. This has always been the case: when Baron Pierre de Coubertin revived the Olympics in the 1890s, he assembled a hodgepodge of princes, barons, counts and lords to coordinate the games. Eventually the I.O.C. opened its hallowed halls to wealthy business leaders and former Olympians. Not until 1981 were women allowed in. 
Even today, royalty make up a disproportionate share of the body; among the 105 I.O.C. members are the likes of Princess Nora of Liechtenstein, Crown Prince Frederik of Denmark and Prince Nawaf Faisal Fahd Abdulaziz of Saudi Arabia. The United States has only three representatives, two of them former Olympic athletes.
Then there are the excessive demands that the I.O.C. makes on host cities. For instance, the host cities have had to change their laws to comply with the Olympic Charter, which states that ''no kind of demonstration or political, religious or racial propaganda is permitted in any Olympic sites, venues or other areas.'' When Vancouver, British Columbia, hosted the Winter Games in 2010, the city passed a bylaw that outlawed signs and banners that did not ''celebrate'' the Olympics. Placards that criticized the Olympics were forbidden, and the law even empowered Canadian authorities to remove such signs from private property.
The I.O.C. also makes host cities police Olympics-related intellectual property rights. So Parliament adopted the London Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Act of 2006, which defines as a trademark infringement the commercial use of words like ''games,'' ''2012'' and ''London'' in proximity.
Such monomaniacal brand micromanagement points to another problem: the I.O.C. has turned the Olympics into a commercial bonanza. In London, more than 250 miles of V.I.P. traffic lanes are reserved not just for athletes and I.O.C. luminaries but also for corporate sponsors. Even the signature torch relay has been commercialized: the I.O.C. and its corporate partners snapped up 10 percent of the torchbearer slots for I.O.C. stakeholders and members of the commercial sponsors' information technology and marketing staffs. Michael R. Payne, a former marketing director for the committee, has called the Olympics ''the world's longest commercial.''
Most worrisome, perhaps, is that the I.O.C. creates perverse incentives for security officials in host cities to overspend and to militarize public space. The I.O.C. tends to look kindly on bids that assure security, and host cities too often use the games as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to stock police warehouses with the best weapons money can buy.
Visitors to London, where the games are scheduled to run from July 27 to Aug. 12, would be forgiven for thinking they had dropped in on a military hardware convention. Helicopters, fighter jets and bomb-disposal units will be at the ready. About 13,500 British military personnel will be on patrol -- 4,000 more than are currently serving in Afghanistan. Security officials have acquired Starstreak and Rapier surface-to-air missiles. Even the Olympic mascots look like two-legged surveillance cameras.
Let us be clear: the concern about ensuring a terror-free Olympics is tragically warranted. In 1972, members of the Palestinian militant group Black September killed 11 Israeli athletes and coaches at the Olympics in Munich -- after which the I.O.C. president notoriously insisted that ''the games must go on'' -- and in 1996, a bomb at the Atlanta Olympics killed a spectator and injured more than 100 other people. Yet there is such a thing as excess -- and surveillance and weaponry are not a panacea.
Security measures can also be counterproductive: London residents who learned that the Ministry of Defense was attaching missile launchers to the roofs of their apartment buildings can't be blamed for wondering if they've unwillingly become a prime target for terrorists. And, symbolically, at a certain point it gets hard to square the image of the militarized state with the Olympic ideals of peace and understanding.
What can be done? The I.O.C. has acknowledged that the escalating scale of the games -- ''gigantism'' -- is a real issue. Competitions drenched in privilege, like the equestrian events, should be ditched (with apologies to Ann Romney's horse Rafalca, who will be competing in dressage in London). Pseudo-historical events like Greco-Roman wrestling, concocted in the 19th century, could also go. Events with high start-up costs could be swapped for those requiring fewer resources. Why not bring back tug-of-war (a hotly contested event in the early 20th century) and add more running events, like trail running and cross-country?
Governance is another challenge. After the bribery scandal surrounding the selection of Salt Lake City to host the 2002 Winter Olympics, and under pressure from Congress, the I.O.C. created an ethics commission to monitor the bid process -- but it reports to the I.O.C.'s executive board, which still has the final say.
Other measures worth considering are to streamline committee membership and to provide greater representation for the international sports federations that administer athletic competitions -- though either approach would continue to pose accountability problems.
In these bleak economic times, the world could use a little athletic transcendence. Sadly, the arrogance and aloofness of the organization behind the spectacle are all too ordinary.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES GRAHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (77%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (77%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (77%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); TRADEMARK LAW (71%); TRADEMARKS (65%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%) EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); DENMARK (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



142 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: It Takes a Little Work To Take a Vacation

BYLINE: By ANNE FIELD

 BODY:
Two years ago, Chad Oakley realized he had to change the way he took a vacation.
Afraid of what might happen if he were out of touch too long, Mr. Oakley, president of Charles Aris, a Greensboro, N.C., executive search firm, said he would spend most of his vacation time on the phone or at a computer, squeezing in ''pockets of relaxation'' when he could. The result: ''I tried to do both things at once -- work and be on vacation -- and ended up doing both poorly,'' he said. He returned home feeling more stress than when he left.
To take a real vacation, Mr. Oakley knew, would require planning. So he started to rely more on his 30 employees. He prepared those he worked with regularly on recruiting assignments and handed responsibility over to them well before he left. And he began letting his clients know he would be away. Now, according to Mr. Oakley, he is able to get a real break when he goes on a vacation with his wife and three children.
''I've found a way to make it work for everyone,'' he said. 
Of all the challenges small-business owners face, one of the toughest is taking a vacation. Like Mr. Oakley, many worry that they will lose potential business or alienate clients, or that the business will not be able to handle a crisis. And these days, with fast response to e-mails expected and the economy still rocky, many small-company owners are particularly unwilling to take a real break.
Such an attitude, however, can be bad for the health of both the owner and the business.
''If you don't get a break, you're going to burn out, and you'll never achieve the level of success you're aiming for,'' said Debra Condren, who has a Ph.D. in psychology and is the founder of Manhattan Business Coaching, an executive coaching firm based in New York. On the other hand, she said, if you take a breather, you are likely to return refreshed and better able to run your business. This guide offers tips from company owners who have managed to get away.
PREPARE YOUR STAFF For the business to function while you are away, your employees have to be able to make the right decisions. This requires making sure they have the information they need to do their jobs -- and maybe parts of yours, as well. For example, while Mr. Oakley works regularly with an employee on each search assignment, he has that person take the lead about a week before he departs. They discuss what the individual may need to do while Mr. Oakley is away, important information about each assignment and situations that may arise. Most important, he hands off responsibility to employees for running weekly half-hour to one-hour client updates, crucial meetings during which Mr. Oakley generally provides a detailed review of each project's status -- a task he used to conduct even while on vacation.
Similarly, Marjorie Hansen Shaevitz, who heads Admission Possible, a college admissions consulting firm based in La Jolla, Calif., starts preparing her five employees one to two months before she leaves. This preparation includes detailed instructions about how to handle phone calls and e-mails from current and prospective clients. She also goes over the types of problems that may arise, with step-by-step guidance for how to handle them -- things like what to say to a distraught parent and whom to contact at the College Board. ''If your staff is very prepared and organized, you can prevent big problems from happening, and you can enjoy your vacation,'' Ms. Shaevitz said.
For Simon Philip Wolf, president of Wolf Designs, a business based in Los Angeles that designs and sells products like jewelry boxes and watch winders, it is all about making sure his 41 employees feel in control.
''Otherwise, while you're away, they panic,'' he said. To that end, about a week before he leaves, he meets with every department head separately to review in minute detail everything each is working on. ''I get more into things than I usually would,'' he said.
For example, before leaving for a two-week honeymoon in Greece in September, he met with the company's two designers and discussed a jewelry box they were creating for a big retail client that had to be shipped for approval during his vacation. Mr. Wolf, noting the client's proclivities, advised his designers to develop versions of the box that were slightly darker and lighter in color and to keep them in reserve, just in case. And in fact, while he was away, the client asked for a darker shade, and his designers were able to provide it without contacting Mr. Wolf.
MANAGE CLIENT EXPECTATIONS Perhaps the most unnerving aspect of vacation planning is letting clients know you will be away. Of course, you also have to make sure they understand that the same level of work will be done during your absence. ''Let them know who will be handling what tasks and that your staff can contact you in an emergency,'' Ms. Condren said.
For Jeff Kear, co-owner of Planning Pod, a Denver company that runs a Web site with online business management tools, managing expectations also requires having a methodical communication plan. He contacts clients a month ahead of time, then a week in advance and, finally, the day before he leaves. He also provides the name of the person to contact in his absence -- either one of his four employees or his business partner, depending on the situation. Occasionally, according to Mr. Kear, a client may be displeased, worrying that a project will not be completed according to schedule. In that case, he said, ''I reassure them that we originally built my vacation into our work plan -- and everything will get done on time.''
PLAN AROUND SLOW PERIODS If your business is seasonal or there are predictable weeks when demand slows, that is often the best time to go away. Ms. Shaevitz, for example, schedules her trips during months that are less critical for her college-bound clients. That means never planning a vacation for any of the months from July to January or during the anxiety-filled month of April, when many colleges inform applicants whether they have been accepted.
Adam Jones, managing partner of the AFJ Consulting Group also plans his vacations around slow periods. But because his nine-employee firm in Los Angeles does accounting and bookkeeping for nonprofit organizations, he generally goes away around Thanksgiving, between Christmas and New Year's Day, and the last week of May -- times when he figures clients will have a less urgent need for his services.
SET A SCHEDULE Some small-business owners are able to cut the cord and eliminate communication with the office completely. More often, however, they set aside times during the day when they check e-mail or make calls. Ms. Shaevitz, for example, reads her e-mail once in the morning and once in the evening. ''It makes me feel a whole lot better if I can do that,'' she said.
Mr. Oakley carves out two hours in the morning, before his children wake up, to attend to business. He lets employees know his plan in advance. They often schedule a time to talk if they have questions or other matters that cannot wait until he returns.
Most important, according to Mr. Oakley, is sticking to your plan. ''It's very easy to say, 'Oh, let's just schedule a call for the afternoon,' '' he said. ''But you can't let the business creep in and take over your vacation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chad Oakley, head of an executive search firm, on vacation with his family on Pawleys Island in South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHRYN WAGNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



143 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Most Sensible Tax of All

BYLINE: By YORAM BAUMAN and SHI-LING HSU. 
Yoram Bauman, an environmental economist, is a fellow at Sightline Institute in Seattle. Shi-Ling Hsu, a law professor at Florida State University, is the author of ''The Case for a Carbon Tax.''

 BODY:
ON Sunday, the best climate policy in the world got even better: British Columbia's carbon tax -- a tax on the carbon content of all fossil fuels burned in the province -- increased from $25 to $30 per metric ton of carbon dioxide, making it more expensive to pollute.
This was good news not only for the environment but for nearly everyone who pays taxes in British Columbia, because the carbon tax is used to reduce taxes for individuals and businesses. Thanks to this tax swap, British Columbia has lowered its corporate income tax rate to 10 percent from 12 percent, a rate that is among the lowest in the Group of 8 wealthy nations. Personal income taxes for people earning less than $119,000 per year are now the lowest in Canada, and there are targeted rebates for low-income and rural households. 
The only bad news is that this is the last increase scheduled in British Columbia. In our view, the reason is simple: the province is waiting for the rest of North America to catch up so that its tax system will not become unbalanced or put energy-intensive industries at a competitive disadvantage.
The United States should jump at the chance to adopt a similar revenue-neutral tax swap. It's an opportunity to reduce existing taxes, clean up the environment and increase personal freedom and energy security.
Let's start with the economics. Substituting a carbon tax for some of our current taxes -- on payroll, on investment, on businesses and on workers -- is a no-brainer. Why tax good things when you can tax bad things, like emissions? The idea has support from economists across the political spectrum, from Arthur B. Laffer and N. Gregory Mankiw on the right to Peter Orszag and Joseph E. Stiglitz on the left. That's because economists know that a carbon tax swap can reduce the economic drag created by our current tax system and increase long-run growth by nudging the economy away from consumption and borrowing and toward saving and investment.
Of course, carbon taxes also lower carbon emissions. Economic theory suggests that putting a price on pollution reduces emissions more affordably and more effectively than any other measure. This conclusion is supported by empirical evidence from previous market-based policies, like those in the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act that targeted sulfur dioxide emissions. British Columbia's carbon tax is only four years old, but preliminary data show that greenhouse gas emissions are down 4.5 percent even as population and gross domestic product have been growing. Sales of motor gasoline have fallen by 2 percent since 2007, compared with a 5 percent increase for Canada as a whole.
What would a British Columbia-style carbon tax look like in the United States? According to our calculations, a British Columbia-style $30 carbon tax would generate about $145 billion a year in the United States. That could be used to reduce individual and corporate income taxes by 10 percent, and afterward there would still be $35 billion left over. If recent budget deals are any guide, Congress might choose to set aside half of that remainder to reduce estate taxes (to please Republicans) and the other half to offset the impacts of higher fuel and electricity prices resulting from the carbon tax on low-income households through refundable tax credits or a targeted reduction in payroll taxes (to please Democrats).
Revenue from a carbon tax would most likely decline over time as Americans reduce their carbon emissions, but for many years to come it could pay for big reductions in existing taxes. It would also promote energy conservation and steer investment into clean technology and other productive economic activities.
Lastly, the carbon tax would actually give Americans more control over how much they pay in taxes. Households and businesses could reduce their carbon tax payments simply by reducing their use of fossil fuels. Americans would trim their carbon footprints -- and their tax burdens -- by investing in energy efficiency at home and at work, switching to less-polluting vehicles and pursuing countless other innovations. All of this would be driven not by government mandates but by Adam Smith's invisible hand.
A carbon tax makes sense whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, a climate change skeptic or a believer, a conservative or a conservationist (or both). We can move past the partisan fireworks over global warming by turning British Columbia's carbon tax into a made-in-America solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



144 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; COMMENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 942 words

 BODY:
A selection of recent comments from readers of the Home section, drawn from letters and postings at nytimes.com.
Design for Dogs
To the Editor:
Re ''The New Second Home,'' by Jennifer A. Kingson (June 28): This is a ridiculous indulgence by the dog owner. Dogs don't need froufrou doghouses, even the smallest breeds. They don't need all the silly costumes and doggy perfume. People are getting carried away with these products. Dogs don't give an arf about any of that. Next time you are tempted to buy a mansion for your darling, think about all those dogs who need a good home waiting in a shelter.
VIOLET PUCSEK 
Toronto
To the Editor:
As a loving dog owner, the existence of these expensive, if adorable, doghouses made me tear up for all the wrong reasons. What better symbol of the global financial divide, the anger over which fueled the Occupy movement, than a second home for a pet. Do the people who build and own these decorative abodes have any clue that for so many of us in the real world, downsizing and lower wages mean that putting a roof over our own heads is a struggle every single day. The rebuttal that the money could just as easily be spent on a diamond ring is even more sickening. This is capitalism at its most corrupt. The money, dear 1 percent, could be far better spent if shared with fellow citizens who suffer so you don't. Truly, if you have the money to buy an expensive second home for your dog, you have too much money. And if you don't understand that, we are, perhaps in North America, beyond repair. Sad, very sad.
JENNIFER THUNCHER
Burnaby, British Columbia
To the Editor:
Your article about extravagant custom doghouses was not only superficial, it was offensive. There currently are over 42,000 people living in homeless shelters in New York City; 17,482 of them are children. That is news; luxurious doghouses are not.
NANCY WACKSTEIN
New York City
To the Editor:
While the article on the whole is amusing and informative, the passage regarding miniature pigs serves to perpetuate some very damaging misinformation: ''But the 'girls,' Cherry and Abby, 6-month-old micro-minis that weigh no more than seven pounds each. ...''
There are no such creatures as micro-pigs. If Cherry and Abby weigh just seven pounds, there is no way that they are already 6-month-old miniature pigs, unless they have been starved.
More than likely, they are under 3 months old and the breeder has misrepresented the age of the animals. Those purchasing animals under names like ''micro-mini'' are being misled to the tune of hundreds, and sometimes thousands, of dollars.
The animals suffer as well, often being starved because of misinformation, or abused or abandoned.
I serve as board secretary of a nonprofit miniature-pig rescue and sanctuary, Lil' Orphan Hammies, and sanctuaries like ours are bursting at the seams with unwanted animals; animals and sanctuaries that could benefit greatly from a voice like yours.JANE MAGER
Concord, Calif.
To the Editor:
''Barkitecture'' in this rancid economy makes me want to growl. VIRGINIA ANTONELLI
New York City About That Pouch
To the Editor:
Re ''Putting the Squeeze on a Family Ritual,'' by Matt Richtel (June 21):
As a pediatrician, I was quite upset by the premise in the article that one has to ''get'' one's child to eat. As I tell parents all the time, babies are remarkably smart. They instinctively know how many calories they need to grow, and if we just offer them healthy foods in an emotionally neutral way, they will eat.
If they skip a meal now and then, it is because their bodies are telling them they have had enough, a lesson that most adults would do well to learn.
As to these pureed foods in a pouch, I guess they are convenient, but not so much more so than a few cubes of cheese and pieces of fruit or some plain crackers thrown into a plastic bag (they do, however, cost an awful lot more).
Toddlers should be chewing food because it is good for their tongue and facial muscles, and it is bad for their teeth to have sticky, fruit-sweet pureed liquid sticking to them over the prolonged time that they may be sucking on the pouch.
BARBARA W. GOLD, M.D.
Philadelphia
To the Editor:
As a pediatric occupational therapist, I cringe when the families I work with pull out the food pouches and wander around the room trying to feed their young children.
This mushy food works against helping a toddler adjust to food with texture and the need to chew. It also works against learning how to sit at the table, use utensils and socialize, which so much of eating is about.
Dr. Wansink is on the right track by having his children sit at the table and converse, another aspect of busy parenting that young children are missing out on: conversation.
Fussy eaters, both in typical and atypical children, are rampant, and this approach to meals is all about the convenience for parents and nothing but a momentary quick fix.
LESLIE RUBMAN
Hoboken, N.J.
Failed Clutter Test
To the Editor:
Re ''The Way We Live: Drowning in Stuff,'' by Penelope Green (Currents, June 28):
Though I live in Los Angeles, I, unlike the 32 Los Angeles families surveyed, do not have tons of stuff on my refrigerator door (for the record, I have two magnets there, and I'm single). So I dispute the study's finding of a direct relationship ''between the amount of magnets on refrigerators and the amount of stuff in a household.''
Truthfully, my apartment up until recently was a mess, with plenty of clutter. But my fellow residents and I received notice that the city would be inspecting all units. So I tossed a lot of things I didn't need and did a thorough cleaning.
What joy to live in my ''new'' place now! DAVID TULANIAN
Los Angeles

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (92%); PETS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



145 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; COMMENTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Design For Dogs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The New Second Home,'' by Jennifer A. Kingson (June 28): This is a ridiculous indulgence by the dog owner. Dogs don't need froufrou doghouses, even the smallest breeds. They don't need all the silly costumes and doggy perfume. People are getting carried away with these products. Dogs don't give an arf about any of that. Next time you are tempted to buy a mansion for your darling, think about all those dogs who need a good home waiting in a shelter. 
VIOLET PUCSEK
Toronto
To the Editor:
As a loving dog owner, the existence of these expensive, if adorable, doghouses made me tear up for all the wrong reasons. What better symbol of the global financial divide, the anger over which fueled the Occupy movement, than a second home for a pet. Do the people who build and own these decorative abodes have any clue that for so many of us in the real world, downsizing and lower wages mean that putting a roof over our own heads is a struggle every single day. The rebuttal that the money could just as easily be spent on a diamond ring is even more sickening. This is capitalism at its most corrupt. The money, dear 1 percent, could be far better spent if shared with fellow citizens who suffer so you don't. Truly, if you have the money to buy an expensive second home for your dog, you have too much money. And if you don't understand that, we are, perhaps in North America, beyond repair. Sad, very sad.
JENNIFER THUNCHER
Burnaby, British Columbia
To the Editor:
Your article about extravagant custom doghouses was not only superficial, it was offensive. There currently are over 42,000 people living in homeless shelters in New York City; 17,482 of them are children. That is news; luxurious doghouses are not.
NANCY WACKSTEIN
New York City
To the Editor:
While the article on the whole is amusing and informative, the passage regarding miniature pigs serves to perpetuate some very damaging misinformation: ''But the 'girls,' Cherry and Abby, 6-month-old micro-minis that weigh no more than seven pounds each. ...''
There are no such creatures as micro-pigs. If Cherry and Abby weigh just seven pounds, there is no way that they are already 6-month-old miniature pigs, unless they have been starved.
More than likely, they are under 3 months old and the breeder has misrepresented the age of the animals. Those purchasing animals under names like ''micro-mini'' are being misled to the tune of hundreds, and sometimes thousands, of dollars.
The animals suffer as well, often being starved because of misinformation, or abused or abandoned.
I serve as board secretary of a nonprofit miniature-pig rescue and sanctuary, Lil' Orphan Hammies, and sanctuaries like ours are bursting at the seams with unwanted animals; animals and sanctuaries that could benefit greatly from a voice like yours.JANE MAGER
Concord, Calif.
To the Editor:
''Barkitecture'' in this rancid economy makes me want to growl. VIRGINIA ANTONELLI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (93%); PETS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (75%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



146 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PLANT CANCELED IN CHINA
AFTER VIOLENT PROTESTS
Large and sometimes violent demonstrations against the planned construction of one of the world's largest copper smelting complexes prompted officials in southwestern China's Sichuan Province to cancel the project. Page A4 
UKRAINE OFFICIAL RESIGNS
The chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament resigned after refusing to sign a contentious bill that would allow local and regional governments to grant official status to Russian and other languages. Page A4
EXPLOSIONS AT AFGHAN DEPOT
Powerful explosions of oil and gas tankers at a depot on the northeastern outskirts of Kabul devastated stores and homes and left at least three people dead and more than 80 injured, according to police and hospital officials. Page A8
National
A NUCLEAR PLANT'S TROUBLES
RAISES MORE ENERGY WORRIES
The San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station, which is about halfway between Los Angeles and San Diego, has been closed for five months because of a leak, becoming a flash point for concerns about the future of nuclear energy. Page A9
New York
PRIVATE SCHOOL CRITICIZED
FOR REACTION TO REPORTS
Officials of the Horace Mann School in the Bronx are in the particularly difficult position of maintaining fund-raising efforts while addressing a scandal following reports of a pattern of sexual abuse of students by teachers in the 1990s and earlier. Page A13
Business
IN SPAIN, BANKING CRISIS
MOVES TO THE COURTROOM
A Spanish national court judge ordered the former head of the International Monetary Fund to appear in court to face criminal fraud charges over his recent stewardship of the giant mortgage lender Bankia. Page B1
LURING SHOPPERS OFFLINE
Some big retailers are transforming their stores into extensions of their online operations, adding return centers, pickup locations, free shipping outlets, payment booths and drive-through customer service centers. Page B1
GOOGLE'S NEW TABLET
Google has introduced the Nexus 7, a sleek, full-blown tablet with the latest version of Android 4.1 called Jelly Bean that aims to challenge both the iPad and Amazon's Kindle Fire. State of the Art, David Pogue. Page B1
Sports
ONE VICTORY SEPARATES
KERBER FROM A LEGACY
Angelique Kerber is one victory away from becoming the first German woman since Steffi Graf in 1999 to advance to a women's single final at a Grand Slam event. Page B9
CYCLING'S TACTICAL EXPERTS
Sport directors, cycling's version of head coaches, are tactical experts, media liaisons and psychologists speeding along in their Tour de France team cars. Page B12
Arts
A HEMINGWAY CLASSIC
GETS SOME NEW ENDINGS
In an interview in The Paris Review in 1958 Ernest Hemingway said that he rewrote the final words of ''A Farewell to Arms,'' his wartime masterpiece, 39 times before he was satisfied. Scribner is publishing a new edition of the book that will include dozens of the alternate endings. Page C1
Home
FINDING NEW APPROACHES
TO OUTDOOR FURNITURE
It's not just the summer heat that's driving the bounty of new outdoor designs -- it's the avidity. Companies are digging into their archives to repurpose classic indoor furniture for the outdoors. Page D1
Style
RAF SIMONS SHOWS
FIRST COLLECTION FOR DIOR
In his debut collection for Dior, Raf Simons's themes included sculptural lines, ravishing color, a preference for pockets, a sense of chic femininity but also ease. Page E1
Op-Ed
Gail Collins PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); RIOTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); BULK SHIPPING (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); RETAILERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (68%); TABLET COMPUTERS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); BANK FAILURES (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); JUDGES (64%); HOSPITALS (54%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%) UKRAINE (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (78%); SPAIN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



147 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Searing Sun And Drought Shrivel Corn In Midwest

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
HARTFORD CITY, Ind. -- Across a wide stretch of the Midwest, sweltering temperatures and a lack of rain are threatening what had been expected to be the nation's largest corn crop in generations.
Already, some farmers in Illinois and Missouri have given up on parched and stunted fields, mowing them over. National experts say parts of five corn-growing states, including Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio, are experiencing severe or extreme drought conditions. And in at least nine states, conditions in one-fifth to one-half of cornfields have been deemed poor or very poor, federal authorities reported this week, a notable shift from the high expectations of just a month ago.
Crop insurance agents and agricultural economists are watching closely, a few comparing the situation with the devastating drought of 1988, when corn yields shriveled significantly, while some farmers have begun alluding, unhappily, to the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. Far more is at stake in the coming pivotal days: with the brief, delicate phase of pollination imminent in many states, miles and miles of corn will rise or fall on whether rain soon appears and temperatures moderate. 
''It all quickly went from ideal to tragic,'' said Don Duvall, a farmer in Illinois who, in what was a virtually rainless June, has watched two of his cornfields dry up and die as others remain in some uncertain in-between.
''Every day that passes, more corn will be abandoned,'' Mr. Duvall said. ''But even if it starts raining now, there will not be that bumper crop of corn everyone talked about.''
For farmers, especially those without insurance, the pressure mounts, they say, with each check on the morning weather forecast, with every stifling walk through a cloudless field. But the worries have quickly spread: corn prices have risen on the Chicago Board of Trade in recent days on the likelihood of a smaller crop, as analysts weigh the broader prospect of rising prices for food and effects on ethanol production.
''You wake up every morning with that churning in your stomach,'' said Eric Aulbach, a farmer here in central Indiana, who gazed out across a field of corn he ought not to be able to gaze across by now.
The plants are short, leaves curling unhappily and with a telltale pale yellow hue rising from stems. Down the road, another farmer's cornfield is still more shrunken, looking like rows of house plants better suited for a kitchen window.
Some experts are less pessimistic, saying the fate of the nation's corn crop, the largest in the world, cannot be known until later in the summer, after pollination, when it is clear whether kernels or empty spaces fill the ears of corn and whether enough ears appear at all. They note that the driest, hottest conditions have steered clear of some crucial Corn Belt states, including Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota and western Iowa, the nation's most prolific corn producer. In those states, the crop appears healthy and strong -- not to mention increasingly valuable. And while much of the nation's corn is not protected by irrigation, some of it, especially in Nebraska and Kansas, is, though those areas have felt the effects of drought, too, requiring more water and, potentially, driving up costs.
''This is a moving target,'' said Darrel L. Good, a professor emeritus of agricultural and consumer economics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. ''But what we know is this: There's been some permanent and substantive yield reduction already, and we're on the cusp, depending on the weather, of taking that down quite a bit more.''In its most recent assessment, released on Monday, the Department of Agriculture reported that 48 percent of corn crops nationally were in good or excellent condition, a drop from 56 percent of crops a week earlier. In some states, though, the circumstances were far worse. In Indiana, half of corn crops were designated poor or very poor, and in Illinois, another state among the nation's top corn producers, only 26 percent of crops were considered good or excellent.
John Hawkins, a spokesman for the Illinois Farm Bureau, said those in the southernmost sections of his state ''are close to or past that point of no return,'' while elsewhere, ''there's a lot of praying; it's hanging on by a thread.''
''These 100-degree temperatures are just sucking the life out of everything,'' he said.
American farmers had high expectations for corn this year, planting 96.4 million acres of it -- a number 5 percent more than the previous year. High prices and an expectation of strong returns made this year's planting the largest corn acreage in 75 years. Those were heady times in farm country, with farmland prices rising on and on, even as the recovery moved sluggishly in other realms. An uncharacteristically warm March in the Midwest sent hopes still higher, allowing farmers to plant corn weeks earlier than usual. For some crops, including some cherries in Michigan and apples in Indiana, unexpected April frosts then caused damage, but the corn, said Randy Anderson, a farmer in Southern Illinois, went right along beautifully.
And then very little rain fell, and temperatures soared. By last week around corn country, scores of triple-digit heat records were being broken: Jefferson County, Mo., 111 degrees; Evansville, Ind., 107 degrees. That left corn, including Mr. Anderson's crop, shriveling.
''We're talking five-feet-tall corn with no ears, no shoots and no tassels,'' he said. ''It wears on your nerves to even look.''
For much of the region, the next few weeks -- as the plants' tassels shed pollen to fertilize the silks and create kernels -- are crucial. The endless fields of soybeans are at risk in the Midwestern heat, too, though they are seen as more resilient and able to pollinate later.
But a stressed, withered corn plant may not pollinate at all. ''This is a very narrow window for corn, and there's little room for error,'' said Brad Rippey, an agricultural meteorologist for the United States Department of Agriculture. ''Whatever happens in that window, it is what it is -- that cob is made or broken.''
By midday Wednesday, temperatures hovered in the 100s in St. Louis and Indianapolis. While some forecasts suggested relief in the form of lower temperatures in parts of the Midwest next week, some rain, but not the deluge many here say they need, was predicted.
''All we can do is hope and wait,'' Mr. Aulbach said, lifting a handful of Indiana soil and trying to shape it in his fingers, only to watch it slip away, a dusty powder.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some farmers have compared this year to the Dust Bowl era. (A9)
 ''You wake up every morning with that churning in your stomach,'' said Eric Aulbach of Indiana. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON P. BERNSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORN FARMING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); CORN MARKETS (89%); WEATHER (78%); CROP INSURANCE (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); INSURANCE (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (72%); BIOFUELS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (69%); ALCOHOLS (62%); FOOD PRICES (62%); ETHANOL (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (64%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%) INDIANA, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



148 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Rooms With a View: The Indoor Look Moves Outdoors

BYLINE: By JULIE LASKY

 BODY:
IT'S not just the summer heat that's driving the bounty of new outdoor designs -- it's the avidity.
''Everybody's doing it,'' said Henry Andrew Hall, founder of the outdoor furniture company Henry Hall Designs in San Francisco, referring to the many businesses that have recently piled into the outdoor furniture market.
The 46-year-old manufacturer B & B Italia released its first outdoor collection several years ago and has since built a portfolio of lounges, tables and accessories, with items like a weatherproof version of Patricia Urquiola's inviting Husk chair, which overflows with soft, segmented cushions.
Other companies are digging into their archives to repurpose classic indoor furniture for the outdoors. Herman Miller has reworked its Eames aluminum group for the open air by replacing the leather with a plastic mesh seat and back. Cassina has issued pieces by Le Corbusier, Pierre Jeanneret and Charlotte Perriand with polyurethane foam wrapped in water-repellent fabric. And this year, Knoll offered one of the few outdoor classics: a lounge chair designed by Richard Schultz in 1966. (The chair was dropped from Knoll's catalog when the company was sold in the 1980s, and Mr. Schultz picked up the rights and made it himself along with other pieces. In March, Knoll bought his business.) 
In the $80 billion home furnishings industry, the market for outdoor furniture is ''not huge,'' said Raymond Allegrezza, editor in chief of Furniture Today and editorial director of its sister publication Casual Living. ''The total value is $3.8 billion, but if you're a retailer in a challenged economy, a $3.8 billion slice of pie is nothing to sneeze at,'' he said. ''People are actively going after it.''
They are encouraged, industry experts said, by a confluence of factors.
Consumers influenced by shows like ''Indoors Out'' on the DIY Network and ''The Outdoor Room'' on HGTV are eager to decorate their backyards and terraces not just for lounging and entertaining, but for activities more commonly performed indoors, like cooking, bathing and office work.
According to a survey published in April by HGTV and Casual Living magazine, 87 percent of the roughly 5,000 Americans interviewed said an outdoor room in their homes was ''important or very important,'' and more than half had one. Another 15 percent said they were in the process of creating one.
Certainly the recession has played a role. Backyards have been forced into service as makeshift holiday destinations, Mr. Allegrezza said, and with the housing slump and the credit crunch, homeowners have had to make the most of their properties.
''A lot of times people can't get mortgages, so they feel trapped,'' he said. ''They're going to take steps to make the experience of staying in their own home as pleasant as possible.''
Then there is the desire to connect with nature. Nathalie Karg, a landscape designer who founded Cumulus Studios in New York to produce functional outdoor artwork by artists like Jim Drain and Ugo Rondinone, sees recent fresh-air initiatives like green roofs and the High Line as evidence of a growing environmental consciousness.
''There has definitely been a surge in outdoor objects,'' she said. ''Eventually, I hope that people will understand that what you surround yourself with in the garden is more important than plants and the deck.''
The designer Jasper Morrison, who has studios in London and Paris and has been creating furniture for the Spanish manufacturer Kettal, said the outdoor room has been big overseas as well.
''I think initially it had something to do with the ban on smoking in restaurants,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''But in parallel, there has been a new appreciation of the pleasure of being outside and making use of any available roof space. It's about quality of life.''
Even in Minnesota, where Mr. Allegrezza said that people can ''blink and miss summer,'' the market for outdoor furniture is thriving. ''When they do get their two, three, four weeks of good weather,'' he said, ''they want to appreciate it -- and spend big.''
The very fact that outdoor furniture cannot be used year-round in many places might account for some of the more forward-looking pieces now on the market, like the Vana chair. It is one of the latest additions to Karim Rashid's furniture collection for the Italian company Talenti, distributed by Henry Hall Designs. The Vana is also a three-dimensional portrait of his wife, Ivana, that Mr. Rashid described in an e-mail as his ''ode to the Picasso era.''
But Vana's real value, Mr. Hall said, lies in its flexibility -- especially in the winter, when it morphs from ''whimsical'' seating into statuary.
Vana may be whimsical, but flimsy it is not. Like much of the new outdoor furniture, the chair is engineered to withstand punishing weather. Those skinny lines are steel rods covered in eight layers of ceramic paint.
Even some of the basic-looking pieces often have a back story of technological adventure.
One example is Perennial Wood, a Southern pine modified by the Eastman Chemical Company to keep out the damp and fend off disintegration. It is used in a collection of restrained outdoor pieces, called Plank, designed by Pfeiffer Lab for the San Francisco company Council.
Another is Jonathan Olivares's deceptively simple stackable chair for Knoll, which Mr. Olivares spent almost four years developing. After dabbling in injection-molded plastics, he rejected them because they had a bland texture, ''like poundcake,'' he said. Moreover, they were not ''heirloom enough'' and might have degraded in harsh sunlight. Metal chairs, on the other hand, he dismissed as uncomfortable because ''they're made of bonelike structures.''
Finally, Mr. Olivares arrived at a solution: a three-millimeter-thick die-cast aluminum shell that conforms to the body and feels comfortably cool on a veranda in the summer. Some versions of the chair are coated with two tones of ultraviolet-resistant paint, like a racing car.
It is the kind of story that seems to appeal as much to retailers as it does to consumers.
Mr. Allegrezza, the magazine editor, observed: ''Outdoor furniture has a story about performance fabric, new extruded aluminum, blah, blah, blah. You'll pay me more for it.'' Consumers who might haggle with the seller of an indoor dining table into offering deep discounts, he noted, are more likely to accept the list price for specialized products.
And as Margaret Russell, editor in chief of Architectural Digest, pointed out, a lot of the new outdoor pieces look ''like furniture you could have in your living room.'' It might even be better than indoor furniture, with an abundance of fabrics that resist fading and are easy to clean. ''It's also so much more comfortable than in the past,'' she said.
But for designers like Mr. Rashid, the biggest upside is that garden furniture is no longer garden variety.
''One could argue that so much has been done indoors that the opportunities for originality are becoming less and less,'' he said. ''Whereas outdoor is a new territory, a new frontier of exploration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEST FOR HEDONISTS: The recent bounty of outdoor furniture includes Swingrest, by Daniel Pouzet for Dedon. Designed in a hanging version that can be looped over a tree branch, and as a standing model, the piece will be available in November.
GARDEN ANGELS: Clockwise from top: Ugo Rondinone's bronze birdbath for Cumulus Studios, $40,000
O Table by Half13, $2,400
Ligne Roset's Fifty outdoor chair, $1,435, and ottoman, $525
Loll's recycled plastic Rapson Low Back lounge, $1,099
and Ligne Roset's Serpentine chair, from $955. (D1)
Valentin Garal's willow wood Family Bench for Le Porc Shop, a furniture workshop in Guadalajara, Mexico, $3,055.
Bali parasol by Odosdesign for Gandia Blasco, $4,345.
Husk outdoor chair by Patricia Urquiola for B & B Italia, from $3,155.
Two-toned Olivares chair by Jonathan Olivares for Knoll, available in September.
Kettal Cottage by Patricia Urquiola, available in September.
Pfeiffer Lab used Perennial Wood in its Plank lounger for Council, $945 (with arms).
Limited-edition stainless-steel buffet by the Campana Brothers, suitable for outdoors.
Hot Mesh stacking chair from Blu Dot, $99.
A prototype of Rodolfo Dordoni's OK Lounger for Kartell was presented in April in Milan.
Plungers form the legs of Thomas Schnur's Rubber Table, available in 2013.
Every color combination is unique in Jim Drain's limited- edition bench series for Cumulus Studios, $8,000.
Droplet outdoor armchair by Cerruti Baleri, $1,588.
Karim Rashid's Vana chair for Talenti, $5,626.
 Garden kitchen sink by the Swedish company Roshults, about $2,500. (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (76%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (71%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (68%); POLYURETHANE (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RETAILERS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (58%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (58%); MHR (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (58%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (58%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (58%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



149 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: Sibling Success: The Power of 2

BYLINE: By ALEXIS SWERDLOFF

 BODY:
THE Weinsteins, the Ronsons, the Sevignys: the cultural skyline of New York City has long been carved by power siblings. In a city where it's tough enough for a single person to climb the ladder, brothers and sisters who make a shared name for themselves stand out like rarefied creatures.
Is it their DNA, their upbringing, a fierce rivalry or familial love? Whatever the reason, they continue to fascinate. Meet the latest batch of sisters and brothers who are reshaping the city's music, fashion, architecture and arts scenes.
Jack and Rachel Antonoff 
Musician and fashion designer
For Jack and Rachel Antonoff, sibling rivalry is a foreign concept. ''We've been a unit for a long time,'' Rachel said. ''Everything I do,'' Jack added, ''my first thought is, I wonder if Rachel will think it's cool. In that sense, we really do everything together.''
Jack, 28, is the guitarist in Fun., the pop band whose infectious single ''We Are Young'' topped the Billboard Hot 100 chart for six weeks this spring. Rachel, 30, is the designer behind a namesake fashion label, known for girly-chic sundresses beloved by the likes of Lena Dunham and Zooey Deschanel.
The Antonoffs grew up in suburban New Jersey, where they commuted to the Upper West Side to attend the Professional Children's School. Rachel went for theater and Jack followed suit, before starting a rock band in his sophomore year.
While they still operate in different creative spheres, their lives remain intertwined. Rachel lives with Nate Ruess, the lead singer of Fun., and they are dating. She has also sung on a few Fun. tracks and has appeared in the band's videos, including ''We Are Young.'' And Jack has helped produce fashion videos for Rachel, including the spring 2010 look book based on ''Top That,'' a campy rap song from the 1989 film ''Teen Witch.''
Other collaborations are in the works. Fun. is toying with doing a capsule collection with Rachel Antonoff that could include higher-end items like dresses. The Antonoffs, who are known for sharing obscure cultural references, gave a preview of their design process.
The look would be ''the 1988 film 'Satisfaction' meets the culminating fashion event from 'Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead,' '' Jack said. ''That is exactly what it would look like,'' Rachel added. ''With inflections of Shelley Long circa 'Hello Again.' ''
Chris and Heather Tierney
Restaurateurs and designers
STARTING a business with a sibling has its perks. If you fight about something, said Heather Tierney, ''10 minutes later it's fine. You don't even need to apologize.''
That might explain the chemistry behind Apotheke and Pulqueria, the neighboring hot spots in Chinatown that Heather, 32, opened with her brother, Chris, 31. ''We've been fighting our whole lives,'' Chris added.
The Tierneys, who grew up in Indianapolis, had worked together before. In 2007, Heather, a former food critic at Time Out New York, was hired as the creative partner at the Wall Street Burger Shoppe. She asked Chris, who was running a T-shirt brand at the time called Coexist, to design it. Although the burger place has since closed (blame the $175 burger during a recession), the retro diner design was a hit.
''The same things are important to us when it comes to running a business,'' Heather said. ''We are both very design-focused, and don't really consider ourselves restaurateurs. We both just like to create these experiences for people, and if it happens to be at a restaurant or a bar, great.''
In 2008, they opened Apotheke, an apothecary-themed bar on twisty-turny Doyers Street. She fell in love with the street after drunkenly stumbling upon it one morning. ''I tried to go back a few weeks later when I was sober, but I couldn't figure out where it was,'' she said.
Apotheke opened during New York Fashion Week, but as the buzz began to ebb, they decided to try something new. Last September, also during Fashion Week, the Tierneys opened Pulqueria next door, a basement lounge that serves pulque (a milky agave liquor) and Mexico City street food.
Getting Pulqueria off the ground was a bureaucratic nightmare, they said, partly because the building, which had housed a Vietnamese restaurant, was not up to code. ''Because we are siblings,'' Chris said, ''we were able to get through it, when most people would have quit or killed each other.''
The siblings are also doing their own things separately. Heather is opening a juice bar and ''vegetarian butcher shop'' (selling fruits, vegetables and vegetarian versions of dishes usually made from meat) in NoLIta, while Chris is designing restaurants in SoHo and Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and writing a book about the restaurant world, which will no doubt include his sister.
David and Alain Macklovitch
Musicians
MUSIC did not run in their family. But somehow Alain and David Macklovitch -- better known as A-Trak and Dave 1 -- have emerged as two of the most happening brothers in the indie dance music scene. ''We grew up as modest middle-class Jewish kids in Montreal,'' David said. ''Our parents are intellectuals.''
A-Trak, 30, was tapped to be Kanye West's personal touring D.J. when he was 21. He founded the Brooklyn electro-hip-hop label Fool's Gold in 2007, and is half of the disco-dance duo Duck Sauce, known for its breakout hit ''Barbra Streisand.'' He was on a February cover of Billboard magazine, as one of the most prominent players in electronic dance music.
Dave 1 is the lead vocalist and guitarist of the electro-funk band Chromeo, a duo made up of him and his childhood buddy P-Thugg. Their 2010 album ''Business Casual'' reached No. 4 on the Billboard United States dance/electronic albums chart. While a fourth album is in the works, David, 34, is enrolled at Columbia University, where he is finishing a Ph.D. in French literature. His dissertation is titled ''Theorizing the Pleasure of Reading in 18th-Century France.''
The two will occasionally D.J. together as the Brothers Macklovitch. And they seek out each other's feedback at every chance. This was particularly easy when they lived across Broadway from each other in Williamsburg. In March, Alain moved 11 blocks away, so they now walk or bike back and forth, and rely even more on their secret language.
''We speak French Canadian mixed with English expressions and our own inside stuff,'' Alain said. (''C'est crackhead'' is a favorite saying.) ''Our friends are always like, 'Cut it out.' ''
Chris and Dominic Leong
Architects
FOR the architects Chris and Dominic Leong, the question wasn't if they would partner, but when. After all, Chris, 35, and Dominic, 33, built their first project together, a treehouse in the Napa Valley, when they were 6 and 4. ''We worked with our dad, doing projects on our house every summer,'' Dominic said.
So after graduating with architecture degrees (Princeton for Chris, Columbia for Dominic) and working at prestigious firms (SHoP for Chris, Bernard Tschumi for Dominic), the brothers struck out on their own in 2009 and formed Leong Leong.
The firm, based in Chinatown, is known for playful and modern designs that use simple materials to invert notions of space. It's a favorite of avant-garde fashion designers like Phillip Lim, who commissioned Leong Leong to design his boutiques in Los Angeles, Hong Kong and Seoul, all of which are clad in the firm's trademark pillowy concrete tiles. This last spring, they designed the 3.1 Phillip Lim headquarters in SoHo.
Their work can also be seen in New York at the Opening Ceremony store at the Ace Hotel, where they designed clever fiberboard and steel-pipe shelves to display Proenza Schouler dresses and Criterion Collection DVDs. Current projects include the exhibition space for ''Graphic Design: Now in Production'' on Governors Island; the stage set for Andrew Ondrejcak's coming play ''Feast,'' part of the Incubator Arts Project at St. Mark's Church; and the third issue of White Zinfandel, a journal they helped start last year that melds art, architecture and food.
''After architecture, food is our second passion,'' Dominic said, noting a key difference between the two brothers. ''Chris is obsessed with cooking, and I'm obsessed with eating his cooking.''
Sylvana Ward Durrett
And Daniela Taplin Lundberg
Party planner and film producer
THOUGH they are half-sisters and five years apart, Sylvana Ward Durrett and Daniela Taplin Lundberg act like twins. They grew up in the same Los Angeles house, attended Princeton and went on to marry Princeton men who work in finance. They even coordinated their recent maternity leaves.
On top of that, the sisters talk upward of five times a day, which is no easy feat considering their demanding jobs.
Sylvana, 30, was Anna Wintour's assistant at Vogue after college and, after a stint as an accessories editor, was promoted at 27 to the senior position of special events director at the magazine. Among other things, she oversees the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute gala, commonly called the Party of the Year. So devoted is Sylvana to her job that she attended this year's Met gala (in a burnt-red taffeta dress by Lanvin) just three weeks after giving birth to her son, Henry.
Daniela, 36, founded the film company Red Crown Productions in 2010, which produced this year's talked-about Sundance film ''Goats'' and the forthcoming movie ''What Maisie Knew,'' starring Alexander Skarsgard and Julianne Moore. Current projects include a film adaptation of Curtis Sittenfeld's novel ''American Wife,'' and a book series for young adults called ''Choose Your Own Adventure.'' Before joining Red Crown, she helped produce ''The Kids Are All Right'' at Plum Pictures.
In the process, the sisters have cultivated an enviable set of contacts. Last year, for their joint birthdays (they always combine their birthday parties), they held a Gatsby-themed extravaganza at the Gramercy Park Hotel. Guests included Baz Luhrmann, who directed the coming film based on the book.
''I told Sylvana that I'd always wanted to do a Gatsby party,'' Daniela said. ''And so she just whipped that up and handed it to me on a platter.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 12, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about pairs of siblings who are succeeding in New York misidentified the instrument played by Jack Antonoff, one of the siblings, in the band Fun. It is the guitar, not the bass. The article also misstated the title formerly held by Sylvana Ward Durrett, another of the siblings, at Vogue. She was the accessories editor, not the beauty editor. And the article misspelled, at one point, the name of a restaurant opened by Chris and Heather Tierney, another pair of siblings. As the article correctly noted elsewhere, it is Pulqueria, not Pulquera.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COLLABORATIVE: Jack and Rachel Antonoff have worked together in music and fashion. (E1)
HAPPY TOGETHER: Jack and Rachel Antonoff, who grew up in New Jersey
PARTNERS: Chris, left, and Dominic Leong in the office of their firm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAKING MUSIC: A-Trak, left, and Dave 1 share their own secret language. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RAP MUSIC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2012



150 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: An Eye on Europe, but Choosing M.L.S.

BYLINE: By LEANDER SCHAERLAECKENS

 BODY:
The walls of Major League Soccer's Fifth Avenue headquarters in Manhattan reflect its reputation in world soccer.
Posters and signed jerseys and balls of stars like Carlos Valderrama and David Beckham who have played out a last well-paid hurrah decorate the premises. The 17-year-old league has long been known as a place for soccer's geriatrics to ease into retirement. Lately, however, M.L.S. has become a popular way station for young talent from throughout the Western Hemisphere seeking passage to Europe's top ranks.
''M.L.S. has become a destination league for top young players in the region,'' said Patrick McCabe, a Boston-based player agent. 
In 2006, M.L.S. counted 36 players from the Caribbean, Central America and South America. By last April, the number was 107, a 197 percent increase over six years and a 37 percent rise from March 2011. In those six years, the league has grown to 19 teams from a dozen, but the number of American- and Canadian-born players is up only 35 percent.
The global market for soccer players flows to Europe, home to most of the world's richest clubs. The top-tier teams in the English, Italian and Spanish leagues combined for more than $1.92 billion in transfer fees (which do not include salaries) during the two-month summer transfer period of 2011, according to the Deloitte accounting firm. Consequently, most of the world's elite players pursue the superior paychecks paid in those leagues.
International player transactions must be conducted in official transfer periods. The primary summer period opened last Sunday and will close Aug. 31, by which time clubs will have made all of their chief transactions for the first half of the season.
More players appear to be choosing M.L.S. first, hoping to boost their stock for Europe. The league's increased attractiveness to these soccer migrants is underscored by the number of Brazilians, Argentines and Colombians it has attracted.
Players from those countries are often valued on the transfer market, with the Brazilians and Argentines the most popular, making up 20 percent of all international transfers registered by FIFA in 2011, equivalent to more than 1,500 players. Colombians were the fifth-most-transferred players in the world.
In the first decade of M.L.S., 8 to 22 players from those three countries made at least one appearance each season. By last March 21, 57 players from Brazil, Argentina and Colombia were on M.L.S. payrolls. And they are typically younger and more promising than in years past.
Fredy Montero was a two-time top scorer in the Colombian leagues and had already made three senior national team appearances as a 21-year-old in 2009. He picked the expansion Seattle Sounders over a Spanish club, Real Betis, and several Mexican teams. Montero said of M.L.S., ''I felt it was a good place to prepare me for my future, which may be in Europe.''
At 18, Fabian Castillo was one of the top prospects in Colombia when he decided in March 2011 that Dallas would be the best place to develop. He rejected advances from the Portuguese powerhouse Benfica and the Italian Serie A club Brescia.
Darren Mattocks, 21, a forward from Jamaica, opted for M.L.S. over the Danish club Brondby, joining the 10 Jamaicans regularly called to their national team who are already in the league.
''I always wanted to go to Europe right away, but I thought M.L.S. would be a good starting point for my career,'' Mattocks said. ''It was a better offer and it was closer to home. Denmark is so far away from Jamaica.''
As M.L.S. has solidified and grown, money for better talent has become available.
''Players like Montero are in an economic space that we just weren't in four or five years ago,'' said Todd Durbin, the league's executive vice president. ''We're in that space today, and it's connected us with the global community.''
M.L.S. stimulated its clubs' entry into the highly speculative market for young international prospects with favorable terms. While veteran designated players -- the league's dispensation program for pricey stars -- count against the salary cap at $350,000 each, no matter how much they make, designated players who are 23 or younger count for only $200,000 and those under 20 count for $150,000.
Previously, teams could keep only a capped third of their transfer revenue, having to surrender the rest to the league, but they now get to keep two-thirds with no limitations, further inflating the teams' purchasing power and incentive to invest.
The increased visibility in M.L.S. is attractive to the players, who also benefit from the league's financial stability compared with some leagues in their home countries.
The improved level of play has increased the attention paid to M.L.S. players worldwide.
''Every year, the interest level from European teams increases,'' said McCabe, who recently brokered the sale of the American defender Tim Ream from the Red Bulls to Bolton Wanderers, then in England's Premier League, for $3 million. ''Top clubs now have full-time scouts based in the U.S. and are regularly monitoring players' development'' in M.L.S.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fredy Montero, right, a young star in his native Colombia, signed with the Seattle Sounders instead of a Spanish club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD WOLOWICZ/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ATHLETES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%); CANADA (70%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



151 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Iran Nuclear Talks Are to Continue as Their Tone Heats Up

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and THOMAS ERDBRINK; Rick Gladstone reported from New York, and Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran.

 BODY:
Low-level talks between Iran and the group of big powers over the disputed Iranian nuclear program ended early Wednesday with both sides saying the deputies of their top negotiators would meet at a later date. Their announcement gave no hint of progress but nonetheless suggested that neither side was ready to declare the effort a failure.
The talks, in Istanbul, were held against a backdrop of increasingly bellicose oratory by Iran and the United States because of the nuclear impasse, which after a lull of more than three months has started to raise tensions again in the Middle East. 
Iran has renewed a threat to close the Strait of Hormuz, a vital Persian Gulf oil conduit, in response to the recently intensified American and European sanctions meant to paralyze the Iranian oil industry as a pressure tactic in the nuclear talks. Iran has also said the new sanctions will have no effect on its resolve to prevail in the nuclear dispute.
On Monday, Obama administration officials disclosed the reinforcement of American military strength in bases near the Strait of Hormuz as a signal to Iran not to try to disrupt oil-tanker traffic. At the same time, Iran began a three-day military exercise, test-firing missiles it said were capable of hitting American bases and targets in Israel.
The Iranians raised the shrill tone a notch on Wednesday, when the air force commander of Iran's elite Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, which has been conducting the missile tests, said he had contingency plans to hit 35 American bases in the early minutes of any conflict.
''All these bases are within the reach of our missiles,'' the commander, Brig. Gen. Amir Ali Hajizadeh, was quoted as saying by Iran's semiofficial Fars news agency. He was also quoted as saying Israel had provided ''good targets for us as well.''
The increasingly hostile tone has mirrored pessimism over the lack of visible progress in the nuclear negotiations.
The Istanbul talks, which began on Tuesday and lasted into early Wednesday morning, were described by both sides as technical discussions involving lower-ranking experts representing Iran and the P5-plus-1 group of countries -- the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany.
Catherine Ashton, the European Union's top foreign policy official and the lead negotiator for the group, said in a statement that ''the experts explored positions on a number of technical subjects.'' The statement said her deputy, Helga Schmid, would meet with the deputy of Saeed Jalili, the lead Iranian negotiator, at an unspecified future date.
Iran's official news media provided a similarly sterile appraisal of the Istanbul meeting, but added that the deputy-level meeting would be followed by a meeting between Ms. Ashton and Mr. Jalili.
Iran and the P5-plus-1 group have held three rounds of formal talks since April about the Iranian uranium enrichment program, which Western powers and Israel suspect is a cover for achieving bomb-making capability despite Iranian denials.
The Security Council has demanded that Iran halt its uranium enrichment, which Iran has refused to do on grounds that it has the inherent legal right to enrich for peaceful purposes as a signatory of the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The cumulative effects of American and European sanctions have already cut deeply into Iran's ability to export oil, industry figures show, and have contributed to severe economic disruptions and inflation in Iran.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran said Tuesday that the country would resist the sanctions regardless of their severity and instead use them as an opportunity to wean itself from dependence on oil sales, which finance 80 percent of the national budget.
In what appeared to be a possible gaffe by Iran's state-run television, its Web site reported results of an opinion poll on Tuesday that said 63 percent of respondents favored halting Iran's uranium enrichment in return for gradual removal of the sanctions -- precisely the opposite message from Mr. Ahmadinejad's.
On Wednesday, the poll had been removed, replaced by a poll about soccer, and Iran's state television accused the BBC's Persian service of hacking the Web site to doctor the results of the uranium poll. In fact, Iranian television said only 24 percent of respondents favored halting enrichment and the majority favored retaliation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); AIR FORCES (67%); RANKINGS (64%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



152 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Arena Names Can Spell Embarrassment

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Barclays picked an awful time to be caught in a scandal and for its chief executive to resign.
In less than three months, Barclays Center in Brooklyn will open with a concert by Jay-Z, a minority owner of the Nets. That will be followed a couple of weeks later by two nights of music from the high priestess of the borough, Barbra Streisand. Soon after the buttah melts, the Brooklyn Nets will open their season.
And so while a lot has gone right for the Nets in the last 72 hours -- agreements for a big trade and the re-signing of Deron Williams -- the Barclays episode feels right out of the team's haunted past. 
After all, the Nets traded Julius Erving, the franchise's original sin; they moved nomadically between New York and New Jersey; they played lousy basketball; they waited patiently through legal challenges to the building of their new arena, and then Barclays gets itself into a world of trouble for trying to manipulate interest rates for its own benefit and winds up paying $450 million to settle the accusations against it.
Which, while we're on the topic of ill-fated choices, brings us to ask: can teams really trust the companies buying the names to their arenas and stadiums? Maybe teams should simply confer with the F.B.I. and bank regulators before closing on their naming rights deals.
The $200 million that Barclays is paying over 20 years for the arena's naming rights would have been hard for any team to turn down.
Naming rights, in the end, inhabit a quirky corner of the sports universe. Stadium and arena names change as companies go out of business, merge, are acquired or land in legal trouble.
On the more benign side, what is now called Wells Fargo Center, home to the Philadelphia Flyers and the 76ers, has had three previous names: CoreStates, First Union and Wachovia. All of them banks, all of them involved in some way with swallowing each other whole.
In San Francisco, the Giants have played in one ballpark with three names in 12 years: Pacific Bell, SBC and AT&T Park.
Probably the most unfortunate tale in naming rights history occurred in Houston when the Astros named their new stadium Enron Field in 2000. The Astros weren't at fault. For all they knew, Enron was as solid as Microsoft. Unbeknown to them, Enron was finagling its finances and hugely overstating its profits. It went bankrupt in 2001. The team stripped Enron's name off the field and quickly found a new buyer with a sweet name and reputation about as far as possible from a corrupt energy trader: Minute Maid.
Once upon a name, Adelphia Communications owned cable television systems and put its moniker on the home of the Tennessee Titans in Nashville. But after members of Adelphia's controlling family were convicted of charges related to the looting of the company, the stadium's tainted name was shed and it came to be known as the Coliseum -- you could regard this period as a stadium in a witness protection program -- before becoming the rather anonymous, but untarnished, LP Field.
Then there is the story of Allianz Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. We know it as MetLife Stadium, where the Jets and the Giants play. Allianz, a Munich-based insurer, was close to striking a deal in 2008 by offering the teams about $25 million a year. But because one's past matters -- even a distant, disavowed past -- the insurance company lost any chance of watching a crane hoist giant A-L-L-I-A-N-Z letters to the top of the stadium when it became widely known that Allianz insured the Auschwitz and Dachau concentration camps and that a former chief executive served as Hitler's economics minister.
MetLife, an insurance company known for marketing itself with ''Peanuts'' characters, came along last year before the start of the stadium's second season, with a deal worth $17 million to $20 million a year. Snoopy's football joint has, as yet, not been tainted.
Sometimes the taint is not quite so black and white as that involving Allianz.
Several years back, after the economy cratered and banks accepted billions of dollars in bailout cash from the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program, Citi's 20-year, $400 million agreement with the Mets took on a different kind of taint.
Banks, many felt at the time, were being rewarded for years of risky behavior, or worse. Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, Democrat of Ohio, petitioned the Treasury Department to force banks with naming rights deals that accepted TARP money to rip up their stadium deals, pronto, no matter how old they were.
Maybe the lesson for teams is just not to sell naming rights. You lose some money, but maybe avoid some embarrassments.
Yankee Stadium, Wrigley Field and Fenway Park retain their storied names. Cleveland Browns Stadium is unsullied by the accounting tricks or rate manipulations of a naming rights partner.
And Lambeau Field in Green Bay still evokes a coach named Curly. Please, don't tell me there is a dark side to Curly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One thing that hasn't gone the Nets' way lately is the scandal that has swept over Barclays, the bank that purchased the naming rights to the Nets' new arena in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); SCANDALS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); BASKETBALL (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); AT&T INC (81%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); TIME WARNER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (81%); T (NYSE) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); TWX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (81%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



153 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EURO WATCH; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Italian and German Leaders Emphasize Harmony

BYLINE: By ELISABETTA POVOLEDO and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
ROME -- For many political observers, last week's summit meeting of European Union leaders produced a clear winner, Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy, who gained approval of measures intended to help hold down his country's burgeoning debt costs.
They say the deal weakened the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who was forced to make concessions. Yet when the two leaders met Wednesday in Rome to discuss the future of the euro zone, the message -- publicly, at least -- was of unity and cooperation.
Italy and Germany are ''willing to work together'' to overcome the crisis afflicting the currency bloc, Ms. Merkel said Wednesday ahead of a meeting of German and Italian officials and business executives. Mr. Monti said both countries understood the need to cede some sovereignty to build a stronger Europe.
The tenor was quite different last week, when Mr. Monti and the Spanish prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, pushed through an agreement that euro zone bailout funds could be channeled directly to ailing banks rather than funneled through their respective national governments. Going through the governments would have added to their national debt, sending borrowing costs higher. Interest rates for Italy and Spain this year have periodically reached levels that are considered unsustainable. The new guidelines represented a significant concession by Ms. Merkel. 
The agreements reached in Brussels brought a note of cautious optimism from Standard & Poor's, which said in a report late Tuesday that the accords ''could help to stabilize the euro zone'' and stanch ''any further weakening of sovereign creditworthiness.''
The ratings agency cautioned that there were still significant risks associated with implementing the agreements, but said it believed the measures ''can provide a more stable funding framework for sovereigns and banks on the periphery while their governments continue to implement growth-enhancing structural reforms and reduce their budgetary imbalances.''
The decision to grant greater flexibility to the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone's new bailout fund, has raised expectations among analysts that the European Central Bank will also take new measures when its governing council meets Thursday, perhaps by cutting interest rates or providing additional liquidity to the market.
Stocks rose sharply after the deal was announced Friday and have held up fairly well since, though major European indexes ticked lower Wednesday. The Euro Stoxx 50, an index of blue-chip euro zone issues, and benchmarks in London, Paris and Frankfurt all settled less than 1 percent lower. Markets in the United States were closed Wednesday for the Independence Day holiday.
The crisis, which began in late 2009 with the revelation that Greece had been hiding the true extent of its government deficit, has already led three countries -- Greece, Ireland and Portugal -- to receive bailouts. Spain is seeking up to 100 billion, or $125.4 billion, for its financial sector and Cyprus may need 10 billion for its banks.
Many economists, particularly those with a Keynesian bent, argue that the tax increases and spending cuts that European governments have pursued since the onset of the crisis to reassure markets are precisely the wrong medicine at a time when the region's economy is ailing.
Business surveys released Wednesday indicated that all of the biggest European economies are either already in recession or close to it. The surveys suggested the euro zone's economy returned to contraction in the second quarter and the mild recession in Britain stretched into a third consecutive quarter.
Markit's composite purchasing managers index for the euro zone was revised up in June to 46.4 from a preliminary reading of 46, but a reading under 50 indicates economic contraction. The reading has been under 50 for nine of the past 10 months. Other Markit surveys this week showed that British manufacturing and construction contracted in June.
Market said the surveys were consistent with a 0.6 percent contraction for the euro zone economy in the second quarter, and 0.1 percent for Britain.
The reports stoked expectations that the E.C.B. would cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low Thursday and that the Bank of England would resume a bond-buying program intended to spur the British economy.
Despite optimism following the Brussels summit meeting, many economists remain unconvinced, saying the problems confronting the euro zone are too great to overcome. Charles Dumas, the chairman of Lombard Street Research, a London economic consulting firm, said he believed there was still a 75 percent probability that the currency union would ultimately fail.
''It's extremely simple,'' he said. ''The Italians and the Spanish cannot grow until they're competitive, and they can't grow if they're not competitive while engaging in austerity.''
Rescuing the euro would either require South European countries to accept a depression or Germany to accept 10 years of 4 percent inflation and large payments to those countries, Mr. Dumas said. ''And I don't think the Germans have yet taken on board the scale of what's being asked of them.''
In her appearance with Mr. Monti, the German chancellor acknowledged that it was in her country's interests to support the euro zone's weaker countries, whose economies have been especially hard hit by the three-year-old economic crisis.
''If our neighbors in Europe don't do well, in the long run we Germans won't do well, either,'' she said. ''It's in our interest that everyone has a positive economic development, otherwise Germany won't be able to maintain its prosperity.''
Mr. Monti insisted that Italy's finances were not comparable to those of Portugal, Greece and Ireland. He emphasized the structural changes his government has already undertaken to improve the country's fiscal position and economy, and those it planned to make in the coming months.
On Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund -- which along with the European Union and the European Central Bank has been helping to administer and fund the bailouts -- urged Germany to bolster domestic demand through the adoption of structural changes, something it said would help the country's European partners.
The I.M.F. called for Germany to make ''reforms to encourage higher investment, remove labor market bottlenecks, and increase economic efficiency and productivity'' that would ''be crucial to boost potential growth and aid the rebalancing process.''
The fund also weighed in on Greece's efforts to revise the terms of its bailout terms. Christine Lagarde, the I.M.F.'s managing director, took a tough line Tuesday during an appearance on the financial cable television network CNBC, saying that there was no room for discussion.
''I am not in a negotiation or renegotiation mood at all,'' Ms. Lagarde said. ''We are in a fact-finding mood.''
David Jolly reported from Paris.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angela Merkel of Germany and Mario Monti of Italy said Wednesday they would work together. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSIA PIERDOMENICO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SOVEREIGN RISK (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); ITALY (95%); SPAIN (93%); GREECE (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); BELGIUM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



154 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: The Incredible Shrinking State Department

BYLINE: FRANCISCO TORO


HIGHLIGHT: The more radical governments of Latin America aren't so happy Washington no longer much meddles in their affairs: they've lost their best legitimation strategy. 

 BODY:
Montreal - The controversial impeachment of Paraguay's president, Fernando Lugo, is quickly turning into a kind of Rorschach test of Latin American politics: the reactions to it say more than the event does itself.
Within hours of the rushed ouster on June 22, the diplomatic wheels were turning throughout the continent. The region's new breed of leftwing leaders decried a "parliamentary coup" and moved to isolate Paraguay's new, more conservative, government. Paraguay was soon suspended from Mercosur, the free-trade area with Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. Venezuela took its place. 
Pressure came from all parts of the hemisphere except for one: notably, Washington more or less sat out the crisis, issuing just a few noncommittal remarks.
How times have changed. It used to be that when a political crisis broke out anywhere in the Western Hemisphere, the only reactions that really mattered were the ones out of the 202 area code. During the Cold War, Latin America was fertile territory for proxy battles between Washington and Moscow, and insurgencies led by ragtag Central American peasants often became transcendent concerns for American geostrategy.
These days, even as the United States struggles with a recession and it has shifted its foreign policy attention toward Asia and the Middle East, a cadre of leaders from the fast-growing economies of the Southern Cone are becoming far less deferential to American power. The center of diplomatic gravity on the continent has shifted decidedly south.
This becomes apparent when crises hit. What shaped diplomatic responses to the Lugo impeachment were phone calls among Brasilia, Caracas, Montevideo and Buenos Aires, not with Foggy Bottom or Langley. Brazil's interest in obtaining better access to the Venezuelan market for its exports informed its using the occasion of Paraguay's booting from Mercosur to get Venezuela into the trade bloc. Uruguay, which had long acted in tandem with Paraguay -- also an agro-exporter with limited industrial sectors -- to counterbalance Mercosur's two larger and more advanced economies, feared the move would marginalize it and demanded a clear timetable for re-including Paraguay. Argentina traded its initial interest in imposing sanctions on Paraguay for greater tariff protection for its manufacturing sector, which has been hard-hit by cheap Asian imports.
In short, the complex crosscutting relationships that increasingly hold South America together have rearranged themselves largely on their own, with the U.S. government little more than a bystander.
Oddly, the shift doesn't seem to please the more radical governments of the region, even as obsessed as they are with the specter of U.S. imperialism. Anti-U.S. posturing has become so central to their legitimation strategies that a passive and distracted Washington undercuts their reason for being.
Venezuela and Ecuador, in particular, would have loved to be able to point to an actively meddling U.S. State Department to justify their aggressive intervention in the Lugo crisis. Because even as Paraguay's senate was debating the articles of impeachment against the president, the Venezuelan foreign minister, Nicols Maduro, and Ecuador's ambassador to Paraguay were busy trying to talk Paraguay's military high command into rebelling against the move and putting tanks on the streets if need be.
It was the kind of rank, direct intervention in another country's affairs for which Venezuela, as well as close allies like Ecuador and Cuba, has been railing against Washington for years. It clearly would have suited its purposes to be able to pitch its position in anti-imperialist terms.
With the United States largely disengaged from the crisis, however, the move had no plausible ideological cover: it's just another case of a regional power meddling in the affairs of a weaker neighbor in pursuit of its own interests. And now that the United States out of the picture, all this is in full view.

        
What's in a Coup?
        
Small-Town President
        
Taking Back the Favelas
        
Hack a Mole
        
Argentina's Big Mac Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COUPS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COLD WAR (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Fernando Lugo Mendez; Impeachment; International Trade and World Market; Mercosur; Paraguay; South America; State Department; United States International Relations; Washington; Lugo Mendez, Fernando; Washington (DC); Americas

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (91%) Mercosur; State Department

PERSON: Lugo Mendez, Fernando

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) PARAGUAY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); URUGUAY (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%) Paraguay; South America; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



155 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Barclays' Ex-Chief Spreads Blame in Scandal Over Rates | Robert E. Diamond Jr., the former chief executive of Barclays, told a British parliamentary committee on Wednesday that the manipulation of global interest rate benchmarks involving 14 traders at the bank had made him "physically sick."
But the American-born banker, who resigned on Tuesday, also placed some of the blame for the rate manipulation scandal on regulators.
He said that the bank had raised concerns multiple times with American and British authorities about discrepancies over how Libor - the London interbank offered rate, a measure of how much banks charge each other for loans - was set. The bank was not told to stop the practice, according to Barclays' documents submitted to the British Parliament.
"A number of banks were posting rates that were significantly below ours that we didn't think were correct," Mr. Diamond told the committee.
"I can't sit here and say no one in the industry didn't know about the problems with Libor," he said. "There was an issue out there and it should have been dealt with more broadly."
DealBook 

        
Ratings Agencies Lower Outlook for Barclays Debt | Moody's and Standard & Poor's on Thursday both assigned negative outlooks to the debt of Barclays. Moody's, in its release, cited "concerns that the senior resignations at the bank and the consequent uncertainty surrounding the firm's direction are negative for bondholders."
moody's | telegraph
In Silicon Valley, Chieftains Rule With Few Checks and Balances | Silicon Valley is different, they say. One of the most economically creative and dynamic pockets of the United States, it is where entrepreneurs rule. Perhaps it is no surprise then that the men who hold sway in the Valley are now looking to transform not only the global economy but the way that public companies are run, locking out both public shareholders and directors, the Deal Professor writes.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
An Expression of Unity Between Germany and Italy | The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said on Wednesday that Italy and Germany were "willing to work together" to overcome the Continent's crisis, and Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy said both countries understood the need to give up some sovereignty. The New York Times notes that "the tenor was quite different last week."
new york times
Irish Business School Seeks a Global Reach | Ciarn  hgartaigh, the dean of the University College Dublin's business schools, told The Wall Street Journal about the challenges of attracting international students: "The brand has suffered. We were the poster boys of prosperity, and we're now the poster boys, in some ways, of austerity."
wall street journal
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Volkswagen to Buy Remaining Stake in Porsche | The German automaker Volkswagen has agreed to buy the 50.1 percent stake in Porsche that it does not already own for $5.58 billion.
DealBook 
Australian Regulator Clears Glencore's Takeover of Xstrata | Reuters reports: "The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission weighed the impact of the proposed bid on Australian and global markets for coal, copper, nickel, cobalt and zinc and concluded the acquisition was unlikely to give the merged group too much market power."
reuters
Who Holds the Reins at Glencore | As Glencore decides whether to sweeten its offer for Xstrata, "the opinions of fund managers such as BlackRock and Legal & General, while influential, are secondary, as the final decision will be made by a small cadre of executives-cum-shareholders. They are mostly unknown to the public," The Financial Times reports.
financial times
Bid for Toronto Exchange Gets Regulatory Approval | The Maple Group, a consortium of Canadian financial firms, moved closer to completing a deal to take over the TMX Group and merge it with two other exchanges when it received approval on Wednesday from Canada's competition watchdog and Ontario's securities regulator, The Associated Press reports. 
associated press
GKN Agrees to Buy Volvo's Aerospace Unit | The British engineering firm GKN said it would pay 633 million pounds ($985.7 million) for Volvo's aerospace division as it looks to expand its production of engine parts, Reuters reports.
reuters
US Airways Says a Deal Can Wait | The chief executive of US Airways, W. Douglas Parker, said in a note to employees on Wednesday that "there is certainly no urgency to merge" with American Airlines, which has been courted for a possible tie-up. "American is in bankruptcy and we need to respect the bankruptcy process, so we are doing just that," he said, according to Reuters.
reuters
Duke and Progress Energy Complete $32 Billion Merger | The combination, The New York Times reports, "creates the largest electric utility in the United States, with 7.1 million customers in six states in the Southeast and Midwest."
new york times
INVESTMENT BANKING 
BlackRock Looks to a New Engine for Growth | Bloomberg News reports: "Susan L. Wagner, who led BlackRock's growth by overseeing purchases including the fund units of Merrill Lynch and Barclays, retired last month, signaling an end to the acquisition spree and underscoring that future expansion will have to come from attracting investor deposits."
bloomberg news
Wells Fargo Makes Lobbying a Priority | The Financial Times reports: "Wells Fargo spends more on lobbying from its Washington office than any rival, paying millions of dollars to influence mortgage rules, just as the San Francisco-based lender extends its lead in the market for home loans."
financial times
JPMorgan Gains Market Share in Asian Bonds | JPMorgan Chase claimed 10.6 percent of corporate bond underwriting in Asia outside of Japan for the first six months of 2012, second only to HSBC, Bloomberg News reports.
bloomberg news
British Insurer Plans to Slim Down | Aviva, the British insurance giant, plans to exit almost a third of its businesses in an effort to strengthen its defenses against Europe's crisis, Bloomberg News reports.
bloomberg news
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Getty Images Said to Draw Bids of Around $4 Billion | K.K.R. and TPG are among at least five bidders for Getty Images, whose auction has advanced to the second round, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
wall street journal
Carlyle Acquires 49% of Chinese Hotel Chain | The Carlyle Group said it acquired effective control of Mandarin Hotel Holdings of China for an undisclosed amount, Reuters reports.
reuters
Singapore Fund Reports Slower Asset Growth | Temasek Holdings, the Singaporean sovereign wealth fund, said the value of its investments grew 2.6 percent to 198 billion Singapore dollars ($157 billion) in the fiscal year that ended March 31, compared with growth of 3.8 percent a year earlier, The Associated Press reports.
associated press
TPG Sells Stake in Taiwanese Bank | The TPG Group has sold its holdings in the Taishin Financial Holding Company for roughly $181.5 million, at a discount to the bank's closing price on Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing a term sheet.
wall street journal
TPG Gets More Sway at Chinese Athletic Company | The Chinese sports-apparel company Li Ning plans to promote a TPG Group partner to be executive director and vice chairman, as part of a management reshuffling and turnaround program, The Wall Street Journal reports.
wall street journal
HEDGE FUNDS 
Einhorn Finishes Third in Poker Tournament, With $4.35 Million | David Einhorn, the president of Greenlight Capital, won more than four times his money in a three-day tournament at the World Series of Poker in Las Vegas. He plans to donate the winnings to a charitable organization.
DealBook 
Hedge Fund Files for Chapter 11 | The Wall Street Journal reports: "A hedge fund managed by the investment firm of Alphonse 'Buddy' Fletcher Jr. has filed for bankruptcy protection in Manhattan, as the firm faces a mounting legal challenge. The Chapter 11 filing comes after a Cayman Islands judge in April appointed liquidators from Ernst & Young to wind up another fund run by New York-based Fletcher Asset Management."
wall street journal
European Hedge Fund Buys Barclays Shares | The London-based hedge fund Odey Asset Management, which already owns 60 million pounds ($93.4 million) of Barclays shares, told Reuters it had bought another 10 million pounds ($15.6 million) of shares on Tuesday. "It's the cheapest bank in the world," said Crispin Odey, the firm's founding partner.
reuters
British Fund Bets Against Bank Debt | Cube Capital, a London-based hedge fund, has been selling positions in bank debt amid a recent rally, betting that Europe's crisis will cause prices to fall, Reuters reports.
reuters
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
NYSE Chief Takes Aim at Dark Markets | Duncan L. Niederauer, the chief executive of NYSE Euronext, writes in an op-ed piece in The Financial Times: "There is no need to sacrifice transparency in order to promote competition in financial markets. Both public policy goals can exist in harmony - indeed they must, if we are to restore public faith in our capital markets."
financial times
Knight Capital Criticizes Nasdaq Over Facebook I.P.O. | Thomas Joyce, head of the Knight Capital Group, "isn't above scrapping with the exchanges his firm pumps millions of orders through daily - or breaking with the party line of his peers in the world of high-frequency trading," The Wall Street Journal reports.
wall street journal
Tungsten Plans an I.P.O. This Fall | Tungsten, a British bid vehicle, plans to list on the London Stock Exchange this fall, after market turmoil led it to put I.P.O. plans on hold in May, its co-founder said, according to Reuters.
reuters
Malaysian Power Company Said to Delay I.P.O. | The Malaysian power firm Malakoff is moving its $1.5 billion I.P.O. to the first quarter of 2013 from the fourth quarter of this year, as the company needs more time to prepare, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing two unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter
wall street journal
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Car-Pooling With a Social Media Twist | A group of social sites and apps allow travelers to invite strangers along for road trips. The New York Times reports: "Ride-sharing and car-pooling, it seems, are having a moment in the United States after many fits and starts."
new york times
European Lawmakers Reject Anti-Piracy Treaty | The New York Times reports: "European legislators on Wednesday rejected an international treaty to crack down on digital piracy, a vote that Internet freedom groups hailed as a victory for democracy but that media companies lamented as a setback for the creative industries."
new york times
Start-Up Aims to Manage Home Energy Use | A company called Smart Grid Billing "can determine which appliance or equipment has the potential to reduce or cut its electricity use in real time," GigaOm writes.
gigaom
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Spanish Bank Officials Face Accusations of Fraud | The New York Times reports: "On Wednesday, a Spanish national court judge ordered Rodrigo Rato, a political ally of Spain's prime minister and former head of the International Monetary Fund, to appear in court to face criminal fraud accusations over his recent stewardship of the giant mortgage lender Bankia."
new york times
Finland Challenges Bailout Agreement for Spain | Bloomberg News reports: "Finland is contesting the wording of an agreement struck last week in Brussels, arguing it doesn't adequately address the possibility that loans to Spain from Europe's permanent rescue fund can give taxpayers seniority."
bloomberg news
European Central Bank Expected to Cut Rates | Europe's central bank meets on Thursday, and economists expect it to decide to reduce interest rates below the current record-low level, Reuters reports.
reuters
British Central Bank Increases Stimulus but Maintains Rate | The New York Times reports: "The Bank of England stepped up its economic stimulus Thursday, announcing an increased bond-buying program designed to jolt the struggling British economy out of a double-dip recession. The central bank left Britain's benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent, apparently concluding that quantitative easing, which involves buying government bonds to increase available capital, was a more effective measure to lift the economy."
new york times
China Central Bank Injects Cash Into Banking System | The Wall Street Journal reports: "China's central bank has flooded the local money market with cash in recent days, stoking expectations that it may be signaling a broader monetary easing, just as it did two months ago."
wall street journal
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MERGERS (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (86%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



156 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Big Data for the Poor

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: A former Google executive has used big-data techniques to spot good credit risks among the poor and under-banked. The company, ZestFinance, is selling its analysis to lenders serving marginal borrowers. 

 BODY:
ZestCash, founded in 2006, had a winning idea, in principle. It made loans to borrowers with poor credit scores by using complex data analysis to better determine their credit quality. But now it has decided to move out of the business of making loans and instead concentrate on selling its analysis to other lenders serving poorer and marginal borrowers.
"Our mission was to use big data to save the under-banked billions of dollars in high fees," said Douglas Merrill, a former senior executive at Google who was a co-founder of ZestCash. "We think that will work better if we get our technology into the hands of established providers."
Mr. Merrill said his company, which has been renamed ZestFinance, has already licensed its technology to Spotloan, a nationwide subprime lender. ZestFinance is also in discussions with two large credit card companies, and with several nonprofits interested in delivering financial services to the under-banked, he said.
Mr. Merrill declined to name these companies and nonprofits. His co-founder, Shawn Budde, was previously with Capital One, where he managed the subprime credit card portfolio.
ZestCash's idea was to serve the millions of working people in America with limited access to good credit. While some are risky bets for a loan, others are poor in data like long-established work records, or a history of paying conventional credit card loans. When they need money fast, a common recourse is the payday lenders often found in strip malls, who give cash but charge triple-digit annual percentage rates.
Some say these lenders are predatory; they counter that they need to charge high interest to cover their risk. Unlike most payday lenders, ZestCash structured its loans for full repayment of principal and interest before it would grant someone another loan.
ZestCash aimed to move beyond the 40-year-old system of credit scoring by introducing new variables. For example, paying half of one's income in an expensive city like San Francisco might be a sign of conventional spending, while paying the same amount in cheaper Fresno could indicate profligacy. Giving up a prepaid cellphone, often the phone of necessity for the poor or credit-risky, meant losing a phone number, which indicates a willingness to lose social connections. That was a warning sign. Careful reading of ZestCash's terms and conditions, which the company could watch by tracking cookies, meant that someone was taking a loan seriously, not just rushing to get the money. That was a positive sign.
Regulation and marketing expenses seem to have played a role in the failure of the company's business model. Acting as an online alternative to traditional payday lenders, ZestCash spent years getting licenses in just a few states, including Utah and Missouri. While payday lenders charged higher interest rates than ZestCash, they also have locations everywhere, promoting awareness. ZestCash had to pay more for marketing to compete.
Spotloan, the first customer of ZestFinance, is owned by the Turtle Mountain band of Chippewa Indians, in Belcourt, N.D. As a Native American corporation, the company is subject to different regulation than ZestCash was, and may be able to roll out the technology quicker.
Mr. Merrill said conventional credit card companies were looking at his technology both for new ways of spotting risks and as a means to broaden their client bases. "All the lenders are data poor," he said. "We hope we can make them data rich, insight rich."

        
How Big Data Sees Wikipedia
        
Twitter Knows When You Sleep, and More
        
Former Card Counter's New Start-Up Helps Measure Productivity
        
Mystery of Big Data's Parallel Universe Brings Fear, and a Thrill
        
Rethinking Privacy in an Era of Big Data

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); BIG DATA (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); SECURED CARDS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) Big Data; Credit and Debt; Data

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



157 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: The Middle Class Withers and the Political Center Follows

BYLINE: CHRYSTIA FREELAND


HIGHLIGHT: The American middle class is shrinking and there is ample evidence that the political center is shrinking with it. But the affluent don't understand that yet. 

 BODY:
America likes to think of itself as a middle-class country, with a moderate middle-of-the-road political majority. But as the middle class is economically hollowed out, will the political middle inevitably shrink, too? In fact, maybe that's happening already.
This was the question that came to mind for me at the Aspen Ideas festival, as I listened to the assembled affluent, politically moderate Americans wring their hands about the fiscal deficit, and pay scant attention to what White House economist Alan Krueger termed the "middle class jobs deficit," which I write about in my Page Two column.
What worried me most about Prof. Krueger's remarks was his observation that the erosion of the U.S. middle class isn't just today's problem - it is being inherited by future generations.
"One of the concerns I have is that the rise in inequality is going to lead to a decline in social mobility," Prof. Krueger said at Aspen. "The U.S. has relatively low income mobility across generations. The research indicates that the correlation in income between parents and children is around 0.5. One way of thinking about this is the chance of someone going from the bottom 10 percent to the top 10 percent in the U.S. is about the same as the chance of a father who is 5' 6'' or shorter having a son who is over 6' 1''. You know, it happens, but it doesn't happen all that frequently."
Bad news for the American middle class, and bad news for America.

        
Europe's Economy Is Eating Its Young, and It's About to Get Worse
        
How the White House Thinks It Can Bring Jobs Back to America
        
Europe's Future's Dim Present

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); JOB CREATION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (68%) class; middle class; U.S. economy; unemployment; Krueger, Alan B; Income Inequality; United States Economy; Featured; Page Two

PERSON: Krueger, Alan B

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



158 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Theater Talkback: Making An Entrance

BYLINE: ALEXIS SOLOSKI


HIGHLIGHT: The way a character is introduced in the new play "3C" gets Alexis Soloski thinking about the art of the stage arrival. 

 BODY:
With its reliance on pyro, flying rigs and muscled ensembles of backup dancers, the modern pop performance is the place to look these days for the dramatic stage entrance. Lady Gaga hatching from an egg or zip-lining to the stage above the heads of fans -- now that's a way to start a show.
Plays, by contrast, often begin with the actors already in situ, sprawled in the living room, say, or huddled on a park bench. Yet how a character arrives can tell us in the audience much about the play and how we ought to feel about it. Think of Lear staggering on with the body of his daughter, Agamemnon racing in on his chariot or Mary Tyrone drifting onstage in a morphine haze. Imagine for yourself the different moods created by tiptoeing surreptitiously through a half-open door; stamping on furiously from the wings; gliding down a wide staircase; or jogging in from the aisle, high-fiving patrons on the way.
Though critics have recently scolded David Adjmi's "3C," a mordant take on the sitcom "Three's Company" now at the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, this dark comedy boasts the best entrance of the season. The play begins typically enough, with two roommates, Connie and Linda, discovered on the sofa the morning after a wild party. But after 15 minutes of desultory conversation, Brad, a leftover guest, suddenly bursts in from the kitchen, wild-eyed, confused and, save for a sock, completely naked.
Much screaming and mild injury ensues; a sense of real terror invades the sitcom setup. Abruptly, a play that has seemed merely loopy reveals itself as something stranger and darker. (Think of it as an attenuated, infinitely more frivolous version of the Angel's entrance in "Angels in America," an astounding moment that instantly alters the play's world, tone, and story.)
Another recent favorite of mine occurred late in Edward Albee's "Me, Myself & I," which appeared at Playwrights Horizons in August of 2010. Though we were in Albee territory -- where the rules of realism don't hold sway -- I wasn't prepared for the moment when the stage floor parted to reveal a much-talked-about-but-never-seen character seated on a chariot heaped with emeralds and drawn by panthers. True theatrical delight.
For sheer verve, it's hard to top Mark Rylance's athletic, vodka-soaked, raw-egg-aided arrival in "Jerusalem" (not to mention the co-star who emerged from beneath the sofa cushions a beat later). That same season, though, Mr. Rylance was upstaged by his costar in "La Bte." Playing a petulant princess, Joanna Lumley arrived in a terrifying haze of light and glitter, blown in from the wings, clutching a doll.
Contemporary directors have been known to take their cues from the pop world. John Tiffany, the Tony-winning director of "Once," said he was influenced by the entrances of Pink and Justin Timberlake in fashioning Alan Cumming's arrival as Dionysus in "The Bacchae" at Lincoln Center in July of 2008. The actor floated in from the flies upside-down, his golden kilt flapping.
Of course, if you run to your collected works of Euripides, you won't find any mention of that descent - or of golden kilts. Oftentimes, a great entrance is an inspired creation of director and cast, such as Caliban rising impossibly from a trunk in the Bridge Project's "Tempest" two years ago.
Many Greek and Renaissance dramas do call explicitly for remarkable appearances - and the occasional awesome egress. Think of Euripides' Medea, who comes on at the end resplendent in the sun god's chariot, drawn by dragons (take that, Albee's panthers) or Christopher Marlowe's Dr. Faustus dragged offstage by devils.
On the other hand modern and contemporary drama seem marked not so much by the traffic on and off the stage, but by its stalling. There's Godot's failure to enter in "Waiting for Godot" or Firs's refusal to leave at the close of "The Cherry Orchard."
The undisputed champs of the showy entrance fell between the Renaissance and modern times, in the form of 19th-century design geniuses. The actor and impresario Charles Kean created ghost traps that would allow spirits to rise and seem to float across the stage. Other innovations were the "vamp trap" (now revived on Broadway in the musical "Ghost"), which permits performers to materialize or disappear through seemingly solid matter, and the "star trap," a specialty of pantomime, which propels actors on to the stage at great speed and with some small risk of impalement.
Would Madonna or Rihanna dare that?
Now I'll exit, but it's time for you to step in. Which stage arrivals have most pleased, surprised and alarmed you?

        
Theater Talkback: Boxers on Broadway
        
Theater Talkback: Numbers That Stopped the Show on Tony Night
        
Theater Talkback: Up Close, Feeling Very Personal
        
Theater Talkback: An Actress Makes a Choice and Two Others May Benefit
        
Theater Talkback: Against Ovation Inflation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (89%); DANCERS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%) Theater; Theater Talkback; Adjmi, David; Albee, Edward; Cumming, Alan; Euripides; Rylance, Mark; Rattlestick Playwrights Theater; "3C" (Play); "La Bete" (Play); "Me Myself & I" (Play); Angels in America (Play); Jerusalem (Play); featured

ORGANIZATION: Rattlestick Playwrights Theater

PERSON: Adjmi, David; Albee, Edward; Cumming, Alan; Euripides; Rylance, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



159 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: A Chat on Conservation on a Human-Managed Planet

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A conservationist ponders worrisome and hopeful environmental trends. 

 BODY:
Monday was the last day of work at the Wildlife Conservation Society for Steven E. Sanderson, the president of the organization since 2001. The society runs conservation efforts and wildlife research projects around the world while managing the Bronx and Central Park zoos and New York (a k a Coney Island) Aquarium. Zoo and conservation work quintupled under his tenure. His successor, who starts work in August, is Cristin Samper, the former director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History.
Here's a recent short e-mail exchange I conducted with Sanderson as a kind of exit interview (I added the links to provide context on some of his points):
Q.
To my eye, the notion that treaties are a meaningful instrument for conserving the earth's living resources has faded with memories of the 20th century. Evidence can be seen in the flows of wildlife contraband to China, the lack of success on ocean-roaming species like bluefin tuna, and of course the end of the vision of a binding treaty limiting greenhouse gases. If you agree, what can replace that top-down model for action? If you disagree, hit me with your best shot.
A.
I'm not sure that treaties are pass, but the 21st century has produced nothing to help me with a counterargument. The value of treaties or international conventions, such as Cites or the Framework Convention on Climate Change, is to provide a foundation set of disciplines and sanctions. I view Cites and the climate treaty as implicitly valuable. The Convention on Biodiversity and Law of the Sea have not succeeded in advancing their respective causes, but my personal view is that the U.S. has abdicated its responsibility by not ratifying, giving other nations even more cover to behave with extremely narrow viewpoints of national sovereignty, from Russia to China to Brazil to India. If treaties are fading as effective tools, I blame the overall lack of international political leadership that should have replaced U.S. postwar hegemony, but has not. This international weakness extends much more broadly than "just" the environment.
To your question of what can take the place of international regimes, I believe the answer has to be better organized and focused action by civil society, including the private sector, non-profits, civic organizations and individuals. One of today's ironies is that those of us living in democracies too often look to government and the multilateral system to answer the world's problems instead of taking action ourselves. Looking back at apartheid, civil society had a great impact on ending it, as citizens and churches and universities and private companies chose not to support engagement with the apartheid government of South Africa. People were out ahead of government, whether it was the Ford Foundation, signatories of the Sullivan Principles, or individuals with political voice. Society pushed government. It took a long time, but it worked.
We could say similar things about conflict diamonds and the Kimberly Process, which arose from a straightforward initiative to become an international regime. And the Nuclear Threat Initiative of Ted Turner and Sam Nunn has done great things to enhance our understanding of the menace of the seemingly immortal nuclear arsenal. NTI has changed the national dialogue, at least partially. There is no reason to think that conservation and climate change can't benefit from the same mobilization, if only we could focus our attention and effort. What will not work is to surrender our initiative to a kind of consumerist green chic, in which we choose to "live sustainable lives" by buying greener products and doing nothing else. Currently, the re-plumbing of the entire Western Amazon and the drainage of the Pantanal are going on without the kind of international or civic scrutiny such projects require. The countries involved are acting with impunity, at the expense of biodiversity, cultural diversity, local interests and the long term health of the Earth. No international agreement is likely to change that trajectory. Citizens, advocates and private sector actors might.
Q.
What worries you most in scanning conservation issues today? 
A.
In addition to the impoverishment of the political agenda you cite above, I am most worried about the relationship between uncontrolled trade in wildlife - both legal and illegal - andits connection to human public health. With roughly 70 percent of human infectious diseases being zoonotic, we should be worried. It is possible to stem some part of the illegal trade in wildlife by interdicting it at key points around the globe, including JFK and Newark airports, as well as airports in the major capitals of the world. That at least would improve our risk assessment. China and the U.S. are probably the critical actors, and neither seems inclined to lead. The U.K., France, Japan, Singapore, China, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Brazil and a handful of other countries can make a huge difference, but are not. Do we have to wait for avian flu to become pandemic, or for hemorraghic fevers to hit the US (neither of which is far-fetched)? Have we forgotten that the HIV/Aids pandemic is zoonotic? Stifling illegal trade and tightly controlling the rest would benefit human public health and biodiversity at the same time.
Q.
What excites you the most?
A.
The marine conservation agenda. The prospect that Australia might protect one third of its marine environment, or that the U.S. and Russia might devise a scheme to protect marine mammals in the Bering Strait, are both exciting. We've also learned in recent years how to track elephant seals, sea birds and some whale populations in ways that will change the map of wildlife protection, literally. The hope is that good science of this kind will enhance bilateral cooperation, as well.
Q.
Is the dawn of what one might call Anthropocene ecology good, bad or indifferent?
A.
Great question. It's here, whatever we think of it. As Peter Vitousek pointed out years ago, humans control the biosphere for the first time in the Earth's history, and it has clearly benefited humankind via more food, less famine, and greater economic output. On the climate front, I think the result of human influence will be complex, but certainly not good for the diversity of life in the 100 year time scale. If we create good adaptive climate strategies focused on biodiversity, we can change the shape of loss. But, as you know well, climate change is here to stay.
Normatively, the upside of the Anthropocene is that we're no longer able to sustain the conceit that nature and humanity are separate. Maybe that will cause us to behave more respectfully toward our planet, but it is pretty hit or miss right now. One of the most interesting questions before us - and the subject of an international meeting next year at Cambridge University - has to do with the potential of synthetic biology to contribute to a more sustainable world through human-created or human-enhanced forms of life. While the ethics and management of biology's future are as complicated as can be, the virtue of the Anthropocene may be played out in the laboratories and ecosystems of our collective future. The knee-jerk reaction is to reject such thoughts, but innovation always holds the possibility of hope.

        
Another Round: Conservation on a Human-Shaped Planet
        
Critic of Conservation Efforts Gets Critiqued
        
Wildlife Confidential
        
Defining a 'Refuge' as Resource Thirsts Rise
        
Rarest of the Rare: Javan Rhinos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (93%); WILDLIFE (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ZOOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); FISHES (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (88%); TRENDS (87%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISTORY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LAW OF THE SEA (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); OCEANS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (59%); INFLUENZA (59%) anthropocene; conservation; wcs; wildlife; Zoos; Samper, Cristian; Avian Influenza; Fish and Other Marine Life; Global Warming; United States International Relations; Wildlife Sanctuaries; Bronx Zoo Wildlife Conservation Park; Wildlife Conservation Society; animal welfare; Anthropocene; biology; endangered species; environmental policy

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (93%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (57%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (57%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (54%) Bronx Zoo Wildlife Conservation Park; Wildlife Conservation Society

PERSON: Samper, Cristian

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



160 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: JAT Capital, Down 20%, Is a Lesson in Volatility

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: JAT Capital, founded and run by John A. Thaler, was the darling of Wall Street a year ago but the fund's fast decline since then offers a cautionary tale for investors. 

 BODY:
A year ago, John A. Thaler was the talk of Wall Street. His hedge fund was up more than 30 percent, defying a broad slump in the market and the debt turmoil in Europe. Investors, starved for returns, scrambled to hand him their money.
This year, things appear to have cooled off for Mr. Thaler. Rapidly.
His JAT Capital is down nearly 20 percent so far, according to internal documents from the fund, as big concentrated bets on consumer stocks have plunged. Investments in the mattress maker Tempur-Pedic, which has fallen 70 percent since April, have punctuated the fall.
Much could change for Mr. Thaler and his fund before the year ends. Managers have recovered big losses in a single month, or exacerbated them beyond repair. John A. Paulson, who rose to fame and fortune with a prescient bet against the subprime mortgage market, has done both.
Yet the sudden reversal of fortune for Mr. Thaler is another cautionary tale for investors who chase the returns of the latest must-have managers. As institutions like pensions plow tens of billions of public dollars into hedge funds every year, many are struggling to locate new talent. But in the fast-money world of hedge funds, what has investors raving one year can drive them mad the next.
"Investors move in herds," said Hany A. Shawky, a professor of finance at the business school at the State University of New York at Albany. "Once a hedge fund manager gets noticed one year, there's a buzz, one or two publications write about them and they get flooded with money."
He added, "Sometimes they are not really ready to invest that kind of money,"
The world of hedge funds has always been opaque. Managers are notoriously secretive, refusing to tip their hand even to their own investors, which can help create an image of the wily genius beating the markets.
In reality, returns are often volatile, and managers rarely repeat stellar gains year after year. One academic study that tracked hedge fund performance found that the average hedge fund investor made about 6 percent a year from 1980 to 2008, a return only slightly better than United States Treasury securities.
"There's a life cycle for all hedge fund managers," said Robin Lowe, head of equities investing at the Man Group's fund of hedge funds. "The mathematics of putting up large percentage gains as you become larger is much more difficult. The whole incentive of why you're doing something changes."
Mr. Thaler, a former Merrill Lynch analyst who specializes in technology, media and telecommunications companies, has historically made big gains - and taken big risks. Such bets have paid off. His returns are historically higher than most competitors. He jumps into his best ideas with a fervor that can mean big wins or big losses.
By the end of April, for instance, his top five stock picks represented about 43 percent of his $2.3 billion in assets, according to a potential investor briefed on the fund who did not want to be identified as revealing confidential information. But his bloody first half is as much about losses on long-term bets like Tempur-Pedic as negative bets on companies like Alibaba.com and Weight Watchers gone wrong.
In the case of Alibaba.com, the Chinese Internet site, the company was taken private, sending share prices higher. Weight Watchers and Sears, two additional short positions, rose when the company or insiders bought up shares.
Mr. Thaler noted that his biggest losses came from bets on the consumer sector, which contributed to 81 percent of the losses through April. The firm lost a top analyst, Jonathan Lennon, who departed to start his own fund, Pleasant Lake Partners, in January.
"While I am a firm believer in evaluating everything we do based on the process rather than the outcome," Mr. Thaler wrote in his letter to investors, "it is difficult for me to ignore the loss we have taken in this sector, the volatility it has added to the funds and the fact that this loss and volatility has forced us to play defense in other sectors of the book."
As such, the losses have prompted Mr. Thaler to revert to his core specialty, the technology, media and telecommunications industries, where he first made his name as a portfolio manager.
Mr. Thaler, 36, earned his stripes at Shumway Capital Partners, a hedge fund that shut down in 2010. While there, he worked as a technology analyst and eventually took over as a portfolio manager of one the fund's most important funds, earning nearly 19 percent for investors in 2006.
In late 2007, Mr. Thaler started JAT Capital with about $200 million. Chris Shumway, the founder of Shumway Capital and a former top lieutenant of the highly successful investor Julian Robertson, believed so strongly in Mr. Thaler that he gave JAT Capital seed money.
Mr. Shumway, who now manages his own money and has invested start-up capital with a number of his former portfolio managers, still advises Mr. Thaler on business decisions, according to people briefed on the matter who asked for anonymity because the information was confidential.
In marketing materials, Mr. Thaler says he still deploys the same investment strategy he had at Shumway. Like many managers in his field, he dives into companies he thinks are undervalued and those he thinks are overvalued, taking on 60 to 100 positions at any time. Unlike some managers, Mr. Thaler typically holds more short positions in his portfolio than long ones.
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Thaler declined to comment for this article.
Over the last few years, Mr. Thaler's success has won many admirers. And his strategy, while volatile, has worked. In 2008, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down about 37 percent and hedge funds lost more than 20 percent, Mr. Thaler lost just 6 percent. In 2009, he gained 20 percent and the year after put up a respectable 10 percent. Last year, when the average hedge fund lost 5 percent, Mr. Thaler scored a gain of roughly 17 percent.
Those gains have also allowed Mr. Thaler to ascend the hedge fund pecking order, having recently sold a condo on the Upper East Side and taken an 11,000-square-foot home, with seven bedrooms and 9 1/2 bathrooms, in Greenwich, Conn. Some things, however, have not changed. An avid baseball fan, Mr. Thaler sponsors a team each year and plays shortstop.
Returns like Mr. Thaler's can be hard to ignore for institutional investors, especially when interest rates are idling near zero and the market is troubled with volatility. But other factors have also helped fuel Mr. Thaler's rapid growth to roughly $2.3 billion from a little more than $1 billion last year.
Some investors looked to Mr. Thaler after Mr. Shumway closed down his hedge fund in 2010. And top competitors, like Chase Coleman's Tiger Global and Philipe Laffont's Coatue Management, were already turning investors away, according to investors who considered placing money with Mr. Thaler.
Whatever the case, money has flowed in so fast that Mr. Thaler, who was an economics major at the University of Chicago, decided last year to close his hedge fund to new investors. Now, those who squeaked in could be feeling buyer's remorse because their first year with Mr. Thaler is turning out to be a big loss.
Part of the challenge of growth is what to invest in. With more money to put to work, the range of investments needs to expand. In part, Mr. Thaler's move into consumer-related investing reflects an effort to broaden his portfolio. In his letter to investors, he acknowledged that the move had been wrongheaded.
That Mr. Thaler's fund has been volatile is not entirely unexpected. At the end of last summer, the fund was up more than 30 percent, sending institutional investors into a tizzy, according to one consultant who looked into the fund and did not want to be identified because the matter was private.
A short while later, a drop in some of the fund's largest holdings, like Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, ate up nearly half of JAT Capital's gains before the year ended.
"The performance of the funds over the last seven months has been a great disappointment to the team and to me personally," Mr. Thaler wrote in his quarterly letter to investors. "After any period like this, we are left to examine the drawdown and review if a change should be made."

        
Despite a Rough Year, Hedge Funds Maintain Their Mystique
        
UBS Hires New Head of Hedge Fund Distribution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); COFFEE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); MATTRESS MFG (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) Chris Shumway; Green Mountain Coffee Roasters; JAT Capital; John Paulson; John Thaler; Julian Robertson; Netflix; Shumway Capital Partners; Tempur-Pedic; Hedge Funds; Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; JAT; John A. Thaler; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MAN GROUP PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JAT

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



161 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Carmen Reinhart to Harvard Kennedy School

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: One of the world's leading experts on financial crises, Professor Reinhart is taking a new post. 

 BODY:
Carmen Reinhart, one of the world's top economic experts on financial crises, has been appointed to the Harvard Kennedy School of Government as the Minos A. Zombanakis Professor of the International Financial System. By citations, she is (by a long shot) the most influential female economist in the world. 
This is her first appointment at an Ivy League institution; she previously worked at the University of Maryland, Bear Stearns and the International Monetary Fund, and is currently a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
She began at Harvard this week, the Kennedy School announced Thursday in a news release.
We've written quite a lot about Professor Reinhart's data-sleuthing here on Economix, and I profiled her and her collaborator Kenneth Rogoff, also an economics professor at Harvard, in an article in 2010 about their best-selling book "This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly."
Their work presciently foretold that the path out of the Great Recession would be a long and slow one. 
At an economics conference in January 2009, they presented the following chart about the track record of over a dozen financial crises in developed and developing countries going back to the Great Depression. It showed that unemployment rates typically rise by 7 percent from trough to peak, and that such downturns typically last 4.8 years: 
In addition to her trailblazing empirical work, Professor Reinhart has an unusual personal history as well, as I described in my article:
Born in Havana as Carmen Castellanos, she is quick-witted and favors bright, boldly printed blouses and blazers. As a girl, she memorized the lore of pirates and their trade routes, which she says was her first exposure to the idea that economic fortunes - and state revenue in particular - "can suddenly disappear without warning."
She also lived with more personal financial and social instability. After her family fled Havana for the United States with just three suitcases when she was 10, her father traded a comfortable living as an accountant for long, less lucrative hours as a carpenter. Her mother, who had never worked outside the home before, became a seamstress.
"Most kids don't grow up with that kind of real economic shock," she says. "But I learned the value of scarcity, and even the sort of tensions between East and West. And at a very early age that had an imprint on me."
With a passion for art and literature - even today, her academic papers pun on the writings of Gabriel Garca Mrquez - she enrolled in a two-year college in Miami, intending to study fashion merchandising. Then, on a whim, she took an economics course and got hooked.
When she went to Florida International University to study economics, she met Peter Montiel, an M.I.T. graduate who was teaching there. Recognizing her talent, he helped her apply to a top-tier graduate program in economics, at Columbia University.

        
Out of Harvard, and Into Finance
        
Rating the Credit Raters
        
Economist Q. & A. on Europe's Debt Accord
        
After the Fall(s)
        
Should You Worry About a U.S. Default?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LITERATURE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BESTSELLERS (68%) Carmen M. Reinhart; Harvard; Reinhart, Carmen M.

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



162 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Could States Save by Expanding Medicaid?

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: Opting in to the Medicaid provisions under the Affordable Care Act could bring economies to the states in covering care for the indigent, by some calculations. 

 BODY:
About a dozen states have indicated that they will opt out of the Medicaid expansion in the Affordable Care Act, with many citing the price tag as the reason. As I wrote in an earlier post, states opting in will get federal subsidies that will cover a vast majority of the cost of expanding coverage to all adults with earnings up to 133 percent of the federal poverty line. But states will need to kick in some money, too. 
A few readers, though, argued that other, fuller analyses show that some states might actually save money by covering more people. The study I cited looked at the costs of extending coverage. But it did not estimate the savings that might come along with it. 
In 2009, the Council of Economic Advisers put out a report making the case. "Rather than harming the budget situation of the states, health insurance reform would improve it," the economists wrote. 
So where do the projected savings come from? 
First, state and local governments end up footing much of the bill for uncompensated care. Say you are a low-income, uninsured adult who has an accident, goes to the emergency room and cannot pay out of pocket for your care. The hospital might just absorb the cost for your treatment. (That is why health care providers will push governors very hard for the Medicaid expansion.)
Or the government might. In 2004 and 2005, for instance, the Council of Economic Advisers' report notes, "24 California counties spent $1.61 billion providing care to the uninsured through their Medically Indigent Services Programs."
Second, financing care for the uninsured forces hospitals and doctors to charge the insured higher prices, meaning higher premiums for coverage. (Economists call this a "cost shift.") "Health insurance reform would reduce this 'hidden tax' that individuals with private health insurance pay for uncompensated care for the uninsured," the C.E.A. report argues. State and local governments would benefit by having to pay less to cover their employees. 
Third, many states have existing programs that pay for health coverage for the poor. Under the Affordable Care Act - through the Medicaid expansion and the subsidies for families earning 133 to 400 percent of the poverty line - the federal government would absorb much of the cost of those programs.
So how much might states save? The Urban Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, performed a similar, detailed analysis of new costs and cost savings. It ran the numbers for all 50 states and the District of Columbia. (See the chart on Page 12.) It estimates that 21 to 45 states would save money by taking the Medicaid expansion. 

        
How Much Would the Medicaid Expansion Cost Your State?
        
Medicaid Expansion and Jobs
        
Health Care: Solidarity vs. Rugged Individualism
        
Alternatives to the Mandate
        
How Wider Coverage Affects Health Spending

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); INSURANCE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) Affordable Care Act; health care; Medicaid; states; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); States (US)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



163 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Some Things Never Change

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A rundown of financial panics in the United States since the 18th century. 

 BODY:
I took that photo at the Museum of the City of New York, at its exhibit on the history of New York's banks. The quotation sure sounds a lot like some of the prose used to describe the excesses of the recent credit bubble. (Except maybe the "over ploughing" bit, now that we're no longer an agrarian economy.)
Such similarities are no accident, given that The New York Herald ran that stark assessment during the Panic of 1837, which was also a result of a major real estate bubble and banking crisis.
In fact, one of more striking things about that museum exhibit was just how often the United States used to experience these major panics and depressions. There were financial crises in America designated as "the Panic of [year]" in 1792, 1796-97, 1819, 1837, 1857, 1873, 1884, 1893, 1896, 1901, 1907, 1910 and 1929 (which led to the decade-long Great Depression).
Then we really didn't experience anything comparable until 2007.
So we had a pretty good run for a while, almost eight decades without a proper-noun Panic. Of course, the 1913 creation of a little outfit known as the Federal Reserve -- and the liquidity that institution learned to provide -- probably had something to do with that 78-year respite.

        
Why Do Financial Crises Happen in the Fall?
        
Income of Rulers vs. the Ruled
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Back to Where We Began. Finally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) historical comparisons; panic; Panic of 1873; Panic of 1907; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Museum of the City of New York

ORGANIZATION: Museum of the City of New York

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



164 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Anderson Cooper's Coming Out Rattles China's Closet

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: In a surprising -- or not -- example of our interconnected world, the public declaration of a celebrity journalist inspires people a world away, living in much harsher circumstances. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - When Anderson Cooper, the CNN anchor, recently announced that he was gay, he apparently inspired a Chinese microblogger using the name Sun Yelin-Xiao Hei. On Thursday, Mr. Sun posted a call on Sina's Weibo, or microblogging, site for Chinese homosexuals to come out en masse on Dec. 12, 2012 - a day apparently picked for its neat number. If you read Chinese, you can read his exhortation here.
Mr. Cooper is fairly well-known among China's more Westernized, educated elite, with Sina's microblog site, the country's biggest, recording over 38,000 posts mentioning him. Comments since his coming out have been overwhelmingly positive, if occasionally a little nonplussed.
In China, very few homosexuals are "out," or "chugui" (this translates as "come out closet.") Familial and cultural pressures to be heterosexual, marry and produce an heir are simply too great.
So Mr. Sun seemed to be inviting the world to dream: "If on 2012.12.12 all the homosexuals in China 'chugui,' " he wrote enthusiastically, "what would life be like?"
There's little chance of finding out.
If anything, the recent wave of casual, "I'm gay, so what" announcements by prominent Americans is underscoring a fast-widening gap in social attitudes between the United States and many other countries, including China.
Zhang Beichuan, a leading researcher on homosexuality and a medical professor at Qingdao University, says China faces an epidemic of problems related to the nonacceptance of homosexuality, including AIDS transmission from gay men to their wives and unhappy marriages in which one partner is secretly gay. 
"I really want to say something," he confided in a telephone interview from Qingdao. "China really needs help and encouragement from the progressive sectors of international society to solve these problems."
One particular area of concern, Mr. Zhang said, is the large number of Chinese women unwittingly married to gay men. (Due to traditional patriarchal attitudes that value a son's offspring more than a daughter's, it is somewhat easier for a woman to dodge marriage and reproduction. A gay woman may be less likely to marry against her will.)
Mr. Zhang estimates that more than 90 percent of China's gay men bow to pressure and marry women - without revealing their homosexuality.
"There are over 10 million women married to homosexual men, perhaps 16 million," he said.
(Mr. Zhang's estimate is based on the number of Chinese marriages, surveys of gay men's life plans and a gay male population of 3.5 percent. There is no universally accepted statistic for gay populations, of course, but the most common global estimates are 2 to 5 percent.)
"We have so many women in unhappy, loveless marriages in China," he said. "Inside this story, there are so many tears, so much pain."
Giving men the freedom to come out of the closet would solve the problem, said Mr. Zhang.
In fact, the topic is widely debated here, but in unofficial media and in private. Sina's Weibo records more than 4.5 million posts for "chugui." 
Yet, in his role as counselor as well as researcher, Mr. Zhang said, "We don't lightly recommend to people that they come out. It can have a tremendously damaging impact on their lives." He cited examples in which parents threatened suicide or fell seriously ill, or the children were forced to flee home.
Until recently, women married to gay men had a champion: Yao Lifen, a woman in the western city of Xi'an, who ran a Web site offering emotional, practical and legal support for women married to homosexuals, China Daily reported.
"Tongqi jiayuan," the Chinese name of her Web site, roughly translates as "A Home for the Wives of Homosexuals."
Married for years to a gay man who, she told China Daily, beat her (Mr. Zhang says domestic violence is common in these marriages, the result of deep frustrations and poor communication), Ms. Yao set out to help other women.
Yet her Web site, www.tongqijiayuan.com, is currently shut down, after complaints to the police from clients that they were charged money for services that never materialized, according to a report in Nanfang Daily. In an email to Rendezvous, Ms. Yao said she was innocent of the charges and that she had been deceived by her boyfriend, who worked on the project with her.
She said she learned only in May that her boyfriend "went behind my back to collect money from some women married to gay men. I am extremely angry and hurt." She said he changed information on the Web site without her knowledge to cheat people. 
Her boyfriend's whereabouts were unclear and he could not be reached for comment. 
Mr. Zhang called the shuttering of Ms. Yao's Web site "a disaster" for these wives, for many of whom it was the only source of support.
Many Chinese women married to homosexual men never realize their spouses are gay due to ignorance about homosexuality, Mr. Zhang said.
"The level of information available to Chinese and to American women is very different," he said.
Chinese women married to gay men "blame themselves," he said. "They think it's because they aren't good enough."
"I blame the government because it is so powerful but the information it offers is totally inadequate," he said.
"Education has got to include homosexuality. What we need is not traditional education that ignores the issue, but a much more humane education that addresses it," he said.
Just a dozen people have so far responded to Sun Yelin-Xiao Hei's
online call for a mass coming out.
"Very cool! There's strength in numbers!" posted one person using the name Yuecai Diancai wo dou ai.

        
Visit Your Parents - In China, It Could Soon Be the Law
        
Activist Says Chinese Officials 'Terribly Afraid' of Rural Unrest
        
Father of Modern Computing, Nazi Code Breaker, Homosexual
        
Things Fall Apart Economically, Everywhere
        
A Female President Demands Equal Rights for Africa's Gays

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); MARRIAGE (89%); WOMEN (88%); AIDS & HIV (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (76%); MEN (73%); WRITERS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Anderson Cooper; China; homosexuality; Cooper, Anderson; Homosexuality; Sina Weibo; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Sina Weibo

PERSON: Cooper, Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHANDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



165 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Workingman's Constitution

BYLINE: WILLIAM E. FORBATH


HIGHLIGHT: Liberals need to provide a constitutional counternarrative supporting the powers of government under attack by conservatives. 

 BODY:
Austin, Tex.
WORK and opportunity, poverty and dependency, material security and insecurity: for generations of reformers, the constitutional importance of these subjects was self-evident. Laissez-faire government, unchecked corporate power and the deprivations and inequalities they bred weren't just bad public policy - they were constitutional infirmities. But liberals have largely forgotten how to think, talk and fight along these lines.
And they've done so at the wrong time. The Supreme Court is again putting up constitutional barriers against laws to redress want and inequity. While it handed liberals a victory on the Affordable Care Act, it also gave a boost to conservatives to revive the old laissez-faire Constitution in the polity and courts: new doctrine and dictums for their attack on the welfare and regulatory state.
But there is a silver lining for liberals as well: in much the same way that the conservative court of the 1930s forcedFranklin D. Roosevelt and his allies to construct the constitutional foundations of the New Deal state, today's court challenges the White House, the Democrats and the liberal legal community to reassert a constitutional vision of a national government empowered "to promote the general Welfare" and - in JusticeRuth Bader Ginsburg's terse formula - "to regulate the national economy in the interest of those who labor to sustain it."
The majority opinion of Chief JusticeJohn G. Roberts Jr., along with the jointly written dissent of the other four conservatives, outlines the doctrinal and rhetorical bases for assailing much of the New Deal-Great Society constitutional order over the coming years.
The opinions are laced with shout-outs to the Tea Party and the right wing, affirming their crackpot originalism. The joint dissent, for example, invokes James Madison's views on the spending power to shed doubt on the constitutionality of three "federal Departments devoted to subjects not mentioned among Congress' enumerated powers": Education, Health and Human Services and Housing and Urban Development.
The joint dissent also offers a stark revision of federal spending doctrine that could sharply curtail new social provisions. Even the new doctrine that the majority adopted may hobble efforts to condition federal grants-in-aid on compliance with national goals, like child-care assistance for the working poor.
You would think that liberals would have a full-bodied response. They don't.
Instead, they are on the defensive, training their fire on the revivalists' theory of constitutional interpretation. But conservatives dominate the debate not because they have a killer theory (they don't), but chiefly because they have a bold, clear account of past constitutional commitments, adding up to a vision the Constitution promises to promote and redeem: individualism, small government, godliness and private property.
Liberals have too often been complacent and purely defensive. The Constitution, they often declare, does not speak to the rights and wrongs of economic life; it leaves that to politics. Laissez-faire doctrines were buried by the New Deal.
Until last week, this response may have been understandable. But it was always misleading as history, and wrong in principle, as well. And it was bad politics, providing no clear counternarrative to support the powers of government now under attack from the right.
That's a major failing, because there is a venerable rival to constitutional laissez-faire: a rich distributive tradition of constitutional law and politics, rooted in the framers' generation. None other than Madison was among its prominent expounders - in his draft of the Virginia Constitution, he included rights to free education and public land.
Likewise, many framers of the Reconstruction amendments held that education and "40 acres and a mule" were constitutional essentials that Congress must provide to ex-slaves. They also held that equal rights and liberty for white workingmen required a fair distribution of initial endowments, including free homesteads and free elementary and secondary education, along with land-grant-funded state colleges.
In the wake of industrialization, turn of the century reformers declared the need for a "new economic constitutional order" to secure the old promises of individual freedom and opportunity. America was becoming a corporate oligarchy, making working people wage slaves, impoverished and ill-equipped for democratic citizenship.
The New Deal brought this progressive vision to partial fruition. In the preindustrial past, Roosevelt explained in countless speeches, the Constitution's guarantee of equal rights "in acquiring and possessing property" joined with the ballot and the freedom to live by one's "own lights" to ensure the Constitution's promise of "liberty and equality."
But the "turn of the tide" came with the closing of the frontier and the rise of great "industrial combinations." New conditions demanded new readings. "Every man," he said, has a "right to make a comfortable living." Alongside education, "training and retraining," decent work and decent pay, his Second Bill of Rights set out rights to social insurance, including health care.
The distributive tradition has evolved, but its gist is simple and durable: you can't have a republican government, and certainly not a constitutional democracy, amid gross material inequality.
That's because gross economic inequality produces an oligarchy in which the wealthy rule. Insofar as it produces a lack of basic social goods at the bottom, gross inequality also destroys the material independence and security that democratic citizens require to participate on a roughly equal footing in political and social life. And access to such goods is essential to standing and respect in one's own eyes and those of the community.
In the face of the court's new constitutional offerings to the assault on the welfare and regulatory state, liberals must remind Americans of the constitutional promises and commitments that led us to create that state in the first place. They must remind lawmakers that there are constitutional stakes in attending to the economic needs and aspirations of ordinary Americans, their dread of poverty and their worries that mounting inequalities are eroding our democracy and its promises of fairness and opportunity.
The Constitution on this account promises real equality of opportunity; it calls on all three branches of government to ensure that all Americans enjoy a decent education and livelihood and a measure of security against the hazards of illness, old age and unemployment - all so they have a chance to do something that has value in their own eyes and a chance to engage in the affairs of their communities and the larger society. Government has not only the authority but also the duty to underwrite these promises.
Often during the 2008 campaign, and a few times since, the former constitutional law professor in the White House has spoken in this key. Now he might take a leaf from Roosevelt and use the bully pulpit to explain these constitutional ideals for our time. He should defend the distributive tradition and its vision of government as if our constitutional democracy depended on it. After all, it does.

        
Other Stops: Talks About Iraq Must Involve Iran
        
History Hits the Campaign Trail
        
Will Time Heal Health Care Wounds?
        
Bending Toward Universal Health Care
        
Seven Consequences of the Health Care Ruling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (92%); CONSERVATISM (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); CHILD CARE (50%); CITIES (50%) Franklin Delano Roosevelt; jobs; John G. Roberts Jr.; New Deal; the Affordable Care Act; the Roberts Court; U.S. Constitution; Roosevelt, Franklin Delano; Conservatism (US Politics); Constitution (US); Liberalism (US Politics); New Deal (1930's); Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Supreme Court

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (78%) Roosevelt, Franklin Delano

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



166 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Obama Administration to File Complaint Against China

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: United States will file a trade complaint against China for new duties it imposed on American-made cars and trucks, including the Ohio-built Jeep Wrangler. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - President Obama, kicking off a two-day campaign bus tour through the manufacturing heartland of Ohio and Pennsylvania, is expected to announce on Thursday that the United States will file a trade complaint against China for new duties it imposed on American-made cars and trucks, including the Ohio-built Jeep Wrangler.
The duties, which the administration said cover about $3.3 billion worth of auto exports to China, were levied after the Obama administration bailed out General Motors and Chrysler in the wake of the financial crisis in 2008.
Mr. Obama has used his administration's saving of the auto industry as a calling card in the industrial Midwest, particularly in Ohio, which is seen as a bellwether in presidential elections. In a recent survey by Quinnipiac University, Mr. Obama was leading his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, in Ohio by 47 percent to 38 percent - his largest lead in recent polls, which have consistently showed a close race.
Mr. Romney opposed the administration's bailout, and Mr. Obama loses few opportunities to remind voters in Ohio, Michigan, and other states with automotive factories that his opponent advocated allowing Detroit to go bankrupt.
Taking a tough line toward China on trade issues is a tried-and-true strategy during election years. The administration's action builds on an earlier complaint, filed in March, against China for its alleged hoarding of so-called rare earth minerals, which are used to manufacture a range of sophisticated technology products.
Mr. Romney has called for much tougher steps against China on issues like intellectual property and currency policy. He has said he would label China a currency manipulator - a charge that the Obama administration has steadfastly resisted.
The Obama campaign is calling this tour, which will wind from industrial areas outside Toledo to near Cleveland and on Friday to Pittsburgh, the "Betting on America" bus tour. Jeep Wranglers are manufactured in a factory in Toledo. News of the administration's trade action was first reported by the Toledo Blade.

        
In Ohio, Romney Pivots His Attention to Obama
        
Dueling Economic Messages From Romney and Republican Governors
        
Even the Chinese Muse About Hillary Clinton's Future
        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Face Off in Ohio
        
After a Charge of Treason, Romney Stays Silent, at First

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); TREASON (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) automobiles; China; Ohio; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Chrysler Group LLC; The Caucus

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler Group LLC

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%) China; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



167 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Rent Increases Suggest Buying Is Becoming a Better Deal

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Renters who can save enough for a down payment and get financing may find it's a good time to buy. 

 BODY:
Rents nationally were 5.4 percent higher in June than a year earlier, outpacing an increase in home asking prices, according to data from the real estate Web site Trulia.
Rents increased in 24 of the 25 largest metropolitan markets (the exception was Las Vegas). Further, the pace of increases quickened from March to June in most rental markets. Rents in San Francisco, for instance, were nearly 15 percent in June than they were a year earlier, compared with an increase of about 11 percent in March. Other markets with double-digit increases in rents included Oakland, Calif.; Denver; Miami; and Boston.
Meanwhile, asking prices for homes for sale -- which typically lead home sale prices, by two months or more -- ticked upward in June by 0.3 percent over a year ago, and rose in 44 of the 100 largest markets.
The comparative changes suggest that, compared with renting, buying is becoming a better deal, assuming buyers are able to save a down payment -- not easy in a tight job market -- and can get financing, said Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia.
But the gains in asking home prices in some areas aren't likely to be sustainable, he said. Miami, for instance, saw a 16 percent year-over-year gain in asking prices. But the market has a large number of foreclosures coming on the market, which weigh on any price gains. (Nearly 34 of every 1,000 housing units in the Miami market are in foreclosure, according to RealtyTrac data cited by Trulia. The national average is 10 per thousand). The low prices there have attracted investors, but the market probably doesn't have strong enough job growth to sustain the increases, Mr. Koklo said.
Trulia's Price Monitor and the Rent Monitor take into account changes in the mix of listed homes in its database, so they reflect trends in prices and rents for similar homes in similar neighborhoods.
Are you a renter who is considering buying? What's holding you back?

        
New Battle on Providing Real Estate Agent Performance Data
        
New Rules Proposed for Mortgage Servicers
        
Credit Sesame Offers New Mortgage-Comparison Tool
        
Standard Form Proposed for Monthly Mortgage Statements
        
I.R.S. Offers Tool on Repayment of Home Buyer Tax Credit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%); TAX LAW (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (60%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (60%) Buying a Home; Foreclosures; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Renting and Leasing (Real Estate); RealtyTrac; Trulia.com

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: RealtyTrac; Trulia.com

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



168 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Journal Strongly Criticizes Romney Campaign

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The editorial in The Wall Street Journal on Thursday gave voice to conservative hand-wringing that Mitt Romney's campaign against President Obama is not living up to their expectations. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal opinion page on Thursday gave voice to conservative hand-wringing that Mitt Romney's campaign against President Obama is not living up to expectations.
In a sharply-worded editorialposted online Wednesday evening, The Journal wrote that Mr. Romney's Boston-based campaign staff is "slowly squandering an historic opportunity" to defeat an incumbent president weakened by a slumping economy.
"Mr. Obama is being hurt by an economic recovery that is weakening for the third time in three years," the paper wrote. "But Mr. Romney hasn't been able to take advantage, and if anything he is losing ground."
The paper expressed concerns about the campaign's overall strategy, saying Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, responded to attacks on his wealth by "vacationing this week at his lake-side home with a jet-ski cameo." And it said that the campaign has failed to respond effectively to attacks on Mr. Romney's time at Bain Capital.
"Team Obama is now opening up a new assault on Mr. Romney as a job outsourcer with foreign bank accounts, and if the Boston boys let that one go unanswered, they ought to be fired for malpractice," the paper said.
The campaign did not respond to requests for comment.
The editorial follows several days of nervous commentary from conservatives - including the paper's owner, Rupert Murdoch - suggesting that Mr. Romney's team of campaign aides is not up to the task of challenging Mr. Obama's campaign.
"Met Romney last week," Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter last week. "Tough O Chicago pros will be hard to beat unless he drops old friends from team and hires some real pros. Doubtful."
Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, said on Thursday that the campaign was "very happy with the team that we have" and that "we like the way things are right now."
But The Journal's editorial criticized Mr. Fehrnstrom's comments earlier this week that Mr. Romney believes Mr. Obama's health care mandate is a penalty, not a tax. The paper said those comments amounted to "tax absolution" for the president and "has made it that much harder for Republicans to again turn ObamaCare into the winning issue it was in 2010."
The paper said Mr. Romney's decision on Wednesday to declare the mandate a tax did little to offer Republicans hope.
"He offered no elaboration, and so the campaign looks confused in addition to being politically dumb," the paper said.

        
Romney to Address Republican Leaders
        
The Parallels Between Mitt Romney and George H.W. Bush
        
Barbour Recalls Reagan As No 'Purist'
        
Does McCain's Endorsement Really Help Romney?
        
What Moves Republican Crowds in Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%) commentary; CONSERVATIVES; Wall Street Journal editorial; Fehrnstrom, Eric; Murdoch, Rupert; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Newspapers; Presidential Election of 2012; Wall Street Journal; Boston (Mass); The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Wall Street Journal

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (86%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%) Fehrnstrom, Eric; Murdoch, Rupert; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



169 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Walgreen, on a Buying Binge, Announces Another Deal

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Walgreen says it will pay about $438 million for a collection of 144. drugstores, mostly in the South that operate under the brands USA Drug, Super D Drug, May's Drug, Med-X and Drug Warehouse. 

 BODY:
Walgreen, the nation's largest pharmacy chain, is growing ever-larger. 
Just two weeks after Walgreen did its biggest deal ever, buying a 45 percent stake in the British drugstore giant Alliance Boots for $6.7 billion, it announced a deal on Thursday morning to pay about $438 million for a collection of U.S. drugstores.
The 144 stores, mostly in the South, were purchased from the closely held Stephen L. LaFrance Holdings, and members of the LaFrance family, according to a statement from Walgreen. The stores, located across 7 states, operate under the brands USA Drug, Super D Drug, May's Drug, Med-X and Drug Warehouse. 
"This acquisition expands our business in an important region of the country," Walgreen's chief executive, Greg Wasson, said in a statement. 
Even before the Alliance Boots transaction, a deal that will allow it to push into international markets, the Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen has been on an acquisition streak. Last year the company paid $429 million for drugstore.com and in 2010 it acquired the New York chain Duane Reade for $1.2 billion. 
Thursday's acquisition is a tiny one for Walgreen. (Factoid: The company is Walgreen; the stores are called Walgreens). The 144 stores had sales of about $825 million last year. In 2011, Walgreen posted $72 billion in sales that generated a profit of about $2.7 billion. It has about $250,000 employees. 
For now, Walgreen said that it will continue to operate the stores under their current brand names but "decisions will be made over time regarding the best, most effective way to harmonize Walgreens and the acquired brands." 
Walgreen's acquisition is a boon for Stephen LaFrance, a pharmacist who started his drug store business in 1968 with a single USA Drug store in Pine Bluff, Ark. In 1997, with only 15 stores, he grew his business by buying the much larger Super D, a chain with about 100 stores. 
"I have loved every minute of my career these past 44 years, beginning as a pharmacist, then management and currently as owner and chairman," Mr. LaFrance, who is 70, said in a statement. "From the bottom of my heart, I would like to thank everyone who has been a part of my success: from my vendors, bankers, partners, employees, family and most importantly to my customers."

        
Deloitte Ex-Partner Charged With Insider Trading
        
Amid Debt Crisis, Overseas Buyers Seek European Companies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); BRANDING (89%); RETAILERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); INSIDER TRADING (50%) Stephen L. LaFrance; Walgreen; Walgreens; Drugstores; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Alliance Boots; Duane Reade Drugstores; Walgreen Company; Alliance Boots|ABOYY|other-OTC; Walgreen Company|WAG|NYSE; Cyclical Consumer Goods; Mergers & Acquisitions; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: ALLIANCE BOOTS PLC (92%); MAY'S DRUG STORES INC (57%); DELOITTE LLP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Alliance Boots; Duane Reade Drugstores; Walgreen Company

TICKER: Alliance Boots; ABOYY; other-OTC; Alliance Boots; ABOYY; other-OTC; Walgreen Company; WAG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (92%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PINE BLUFF, AR, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



170 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Preview

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The Labor Department releases its June employment report on Friday. The median forecast is that job growth ticked up slightly to 90,000 and that the unemployment rate stayed at 8.2 percent. 

 BODY:
The Labor Department releases its report on June job growth on Friday, and economists are crossing their fingers for some good news.
"Good news" is a relative term, of course.
In May, the nation's employers added a measly 69,000 jobs, whereas a gain of 125,000 to 150,000 jobs is needed just to keep up with the growth in the working-age population before even touching the backlog of nearly 13 million unemployed Americans. The median forecast for June is that job growth ticked up slightly to 90,000 jobs, and that the unemployment rate stayed flat at 8.2 percent.
That 90,000 number is a relatively small fraction of the growth rate many economists had been expecting just a few months ago. 
During the winter, the economy seemed to be picking up steam, as private companies took on more and more workers and the unemployment rate dropped precipitously. In January, for example, nonfarm payrolls grew by 275,000 jobs.
But job growth slowed suddenly in March, April and May. That led some economists to wonder if the unseasonably warm winter, rather than a fundamentally healthier economy, had been the source of the temporary employment surge.
"The weather distortion should be finished now, so we should have a somewhat cleaner reading of what's actually happening with payrolls," said Andrew Tilton, a senior United States economist at Goldman Sachs.
The question is whether that cleaner reading is a sustainably higher one as well.
There were a couple of promising signs on Thursday. The payroll company ADP said businesses added 176,000 jobs last month, though its survey has often differed from the government report. And new claims for unemployment benefits dropped last week to the lowest level since the week of May 19, the Labor Department reported.
Since the recovery officially began in June 2009, there have been several spates of promising job growth, which raised hopes of a strengthening recovery but ultimately disappointed. Each time economists attributed the hiring slowdown to one-time shocks, including last year's Japanese tsunami and the Arab Spring uprisings.
A healthier economy might have been able to easily withstand such shocks, but not one weakened by a debt overhang and a sea of underwater homes.

        
Structural Unemployment and Good Jobs
        
Jobs Report Preview
        
Mean-Spirited, Bad Economics
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
What's at Stake in Friday's Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (72%) employment; jobs; June 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (82%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (82%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



171 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Romney Reportedly Considering Foreign-Policy Tour

BYLINE: RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney, who is planning to travel to Israel and London this summer, is now also considering stops in Germany and Poland, according to a report in Politico. The itinerary would seem intended to highlight places where Mr. Romney feels he can draw substantive distinctions with President Obama on foreign policy. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, who is planning to travel to Israel and London this summer, is now also considering stops in Germany and Poland, according to a report in Politico. If he were to go through with those plans, it would create an itinerary that would seem intended to highlight places where Mr. Romney feels he can draw substantive distinctions going forward with President Obama on foreign policy.
That has been a struggle for Mr. Romney on some key issues, such as when to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan. Foreign policy has taken a back seat in this election to debates over domestic economic problems. And while national security is often the strong electoral hand of the G.O.P. candidate, Mr. Obama has polled well on those issues, leaving his challenger less space to stake out a different course. But some analysts say Mr. Romney still needs to do a better job articulating how his foreign policy would tangibly differ from the current White House approach.
Romney officials declined comment on the trip, but people inside the campaign had been discussing a plan to travel to Germany to meet with the chancellor, Angela Merkel, after Mr. Romney stops in London for the Olympics. According to people close to the campaign, such a trip, if it ultimately happens, would give Mr. Romney an opportunity to discuss the European economic crisis with Ms. Merkel, who backs an austerity program that includes government spending cuts to resolve Europe's debt crisis.
The Obama administration has been critical of such austerity plans and public spending cuts at a time when spending by consumers and businesses is depressed, favoring instead policies designed to spur growth to get European economies back on track. Mr. Obama's approach in Europe has in turn drawn fire from one of Mr. Romney's top economic advisers, suggesting how the two parties may have the same sort of austerity-versus-stimulus argument this fall over Europe as they will over United States fiscal policy.
Mr. Romney's campaign is also debating stopping in Poland, according to Politico. A visit there would give Mr. Romney an opportunity to hammer Mr. Obama for his decision three years ago to scrap a George W. Bush-era proposed antiballistic missile shield in Eastern Europe, and create instead a system to shoot down short- and medium-range Iranian missiles. White House officials have said their shield would better protect United States allies, but Mr. Romney says Mr. Obama killed an important program with no concessions from Russia.

        
Egypt Captivates World's Attention - Except at CPAC
        
Would Romney Shake Up His Campaign Team?
        
A Holiday Week in a Tough Campaign
        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Face Off in Ohio
        
Romney Ad a Response to Obama Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CAUCUSES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (64%) foreign policy; mitt romney; president obama; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Presidential Election of 2012; United States International Relations; Germany; Israel; Poland; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) POLAND (95%); EUROPE (95%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Germany; Israel; Poland

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



172 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Members of Congress Received Preferential Treatment on Loans From Countrywide

BYLINE: REBECCA BERG


HIGHLIGHT: A report released Thursday by the House oversight committee found that 12 members of Congress and staff were granted access to a V.I.P. loan program. 

 BODY:
Some members of Congress and their staffs received preferential treatment on loans from Countrywide Financial as the company tried to bolster its reputation on Capitol Hill, particularly among lawmakers involved in fiscal and monetary policy-making, a Congressional committee has found.
According to a report released Thursday by the House oversight committee, led by Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, 12 members of Congress and staff, in total, were granted access to a V.I.P. loan program from 1996 to 2008. They received better customer service and an average loan discount of 0.5 points, while junk fees, which usually range from $350 to $400, were waived.
Countrywide, which lost billions of dollars during the financial collapse, also offered special treatment to some employees at Fannie Mae, with which Countrywide lobbied jointly.
In some instances, Angelo Mozilo, the chief executive of Countrywide, personally recommended that lawmakers be referred to the V.I.P. program, including Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. (The report noted that Mr. Dodd said he did not know he was a part of the V.I.P. program.) A special list in the program designated a "Friend of Angelo," which enabled Countrywide's leader to keep tabs on the progress of specific loans.
In one e-mail, which was cited in the House report, Mr. Mozilo's assistant conveyed his instructions to give Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, a one-point reduction on his loan, and to approve the loan without tacking on any extra fees. "If any problem, advise Angelo ASAP," the e-mail read.
According to the report, the members of Congress who were granted access to a V.I.P. loan program from 1996 to 2008 were Senators Dodd and Conrad, and from the House, Edolphus Towns, Democrat of New York; Howard McKeon, Republican of California; Pete Sessions, Republican of Texas; Elton Gallegly, Republican of California; and Tom Campbell, a former California Republican. 
Some of the names were first reported in January by The Wall Street Journal.
Jimmie Williams, who worked as a lobbyist for Countrywide, also referred some members of Congress and their staffs to the V.I.P. program. In some cases, he explicitly outlined to other Countrywide employees how the referrals could benefit the company's image.
Mr. Williams said he began to refer members of Congress and their staffs to the program when he grew tired of dealing with complaints about Countrywide mortgages.
"I could walk into an office on any given day and spend the first 30 minutes talking about someone whose loan was mishandled, whose papers didn't come, or who didn't get the rate," Mr. Williams said in his testimony to the House committee. "I felt that it got in the way of doing what my job was, that I was becoming more of an ambassador, also, and that was beginning to wear thin."
As he began to refer people to the program, Mr. Williams said he did not expect that the referrals would result in loan discounts. Rather, he said in his testimony, he assumed that they would ensure better customer service.
Mr. Williams said he was aware, however, that junk fees would likely be waived for V.I.P. program members and, the report reads, he "testified that he occasionally advised staff that they should not discount those loans because of Congressional ethics rules."
The report found, however, that only Mr. Sessions requested that he not receive any discount from Countrywide.
According to the report, Fannie Mae employees also frequently received preferential treatment when applying for loans from Countrywide. Accepting the discounted loans violated Fannie Mae's code of conduct, the House report said.
It has not yet been determined whether members of Congress or their staffs committed any ethics violations by accepting preferential loans and discounts from Countrywide. In December, Mr. Issa submitted the names of lawmakers who participated in the V.I.P. program to the House Ethics Committee, but the committee does not comment on the existence or progress of inquiries.
The House ethics manual does include discounts and loans in its definition of gifts, which representatives and their staffs are prohibited from accepting from lobbyists or private corporations. Counsel for the ethics committee could not comment further on whether the gift rule applies in this case.
The Senate Select Committee on Ethics examined the cases of Mr. Dodd and Mr. Conrad in 2009 and cleared the two senators of wrongdoing, but cautioned against receiving similar preferential treatment in the future.
A previous version of this post stated that Senator Christopher J. Dodd was the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee when he received preferential treatment by Countrywide in October 1999. Mr. Dodd was not named chairman of the committee until 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Campbell, Tom; Conrad, Kent; Dodd, Christopher J; Gallegly, Elton; Issa, Darrell E; McKeon, Howard P; Mozilo, Angelo R; Sessions, Pete; Towns, Edolphus; United States Politics and Government; Countrywide Financial Corp; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); House of Representatives; Senate; California; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)|FNMA|OTCBB; The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Countrywide Financial Corp; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); ANGELO R MOZILO (90%); KENT CONRAD (89%); DARRELL E ISSA (88%); ED TOWNS (78%); ELTON GALLEGLY (78%); PETE SESSIONS (78%); BUCK MCKEON (78%) Campbell, Tom; Conrad, Kent; Dodd, Christopher J; Gallegly, Elton; Issa, Darrell E; McKeon, Howard P; Mozilo, Angelo R; Sessions, Pete; Towns, Edolphus

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



173 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: JAT Capital, Down 20%, Is a Lesson In Volatility

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
A year ago, John A. Thaler was the talk of Wall Street. His hedge fund was up more than 30 percent, defying a broad slump in the market and the debt turmoil in Europe. Investors, starved for returns, scrambled to hand him their money.
This year, things appear to have cooled off for Mr. Thaler. Rapidly.
His JAT Capital is down nearly 20 percent so far, according to internal documents from the fund, as big concentrated bets on consumer stocks have plunged. Investments in the mattress maker Tempur-Pedic, which has fallen 70 percent since April, have punctuated the fall.
Much could change for Mr. Thaler and his fund before the year ends. Managers have recovered big losses in a single month, or exacerbated them beyond repair. John A. Paulson, who rose to fame and fortune with a prescient bet against the subprime mortgage market, has done both. 
Yet the sudden reversal of fortune for Mr. Thaler is another cautionary tale for investors who chase the returns of the latest must-have managers. As institutions like pensions plow tens of billions of public dollars into hedge funds every year, many are struggling to locate new talent. But in the fast-money world of hedge funds, what has investors raving one year can drive them mad the next.
''Investors move in herds,'' said Hany A. Shawky, a professor of finance at the business school at the State University of New York at Albany. ''Once a hedge fund manager gets noticed one year, there's a buzz, one or two publications write about them and they get flooded with money.''
He added, ''Sometimes they are not really ready to invest that kind of money,''
The world of hedge funds has always been opaque. Managers are notoriously secretive, refusing to tip their hand even to their own investors, which can help create an image of the wily genius beating the markets.
In reality, returns are often volatile, and managers rarely repeat stellar gains year after year. One academic study that tracked hedge fund performance found that the average hedge fund investor made about 6 percent a year from 1980 to 2008, a return only slightly better than United States Treasury securities.
''There's a life cycle for all hedge fund managers,'' said Robin Lowe, head of equities investing at the Man Group's fund of hedge funds. ''The mathematics of putting up large percentage gains as you become larger is much more difficult. The whole incentive of why you're doing something changes.''
Mr. Thaler, a former Merrill Lynch analyst who specializes in technology, media and telecommunications companies, has historically made big gains - and taken big risks. Such bets have paid off. His returns are historically higher than most competitors. He jumps into his best ideas with a fervor that can mean big wins or big losses.
By the end of April, for instance, his top five stock picks represented about 43 percent of his $2.3 billion in assets, according to a potential investor briefed on the fund who did not want to be identified as revealing confidential information. But his bloody first half is as much about losses on long-term bets like Tempur-Pedic as negative bets on companies like Alibaba.com and Weight Watchers gone wrong.
In the case of Alibaba.com, the Chinese Internet site, the company was taken private, sending share prices higher. Weight Watchers and Sears, two additional short positions, rose when the company or insiders bought up shares.
Mr. Thaler noted that his biggest losses came from bets on the consumer sector, which contributed to 81 percent of the losses through April. The firm lost a top analyst, Jonathan Lennon, who departed to start his own fund, Pleasant Lake Partners, in January.
''While I am a firm believer in evaluating everything we do based on the process rather than the outcome,'' Mr. Thaler wrote in his letter to investors, ''it is difficult for me to ignore the loss we have taken in this sector, the volatility it has added to the funds and the fact that this loss and volatility has forced us to play defense in other sectors of the book.''
As such, the losses have prompted Mr. Thaler to revert to his core specialty, the technology, media and telecommunications industries, where he first made his name as a portfolio manager.
Mr. Thaler, 36, earned his stripes at Shumway Capital Partners, a hedge fund that shut down in 2010. While there, he worked as a technology analyst and eventually took over as a portfolio manager of one the fund's most important funds, earning nearly 19 percent for investors in 2006.
In late 2007, Mr. Thaler started JAT Capital with about $200 million. Chris Shumway, the founder of Shumway Capital and a former top lieutenant of the highly successful investor Julian Robertson, believed so strongly in Mr. Thaler that he gave JAT Capital seed money.
Mr. Shumway, who now manages his own money and has invested start-up capital with a number of his former portfolio managers, still advises Mr. Thaler on business decisions, according to people briefed on the matter who asked for anonymity because the information was confidential.
In marketing materials, Mr. Thaler says he still deploys the same investment strategy he had at Shumway. Like many managers in his field, he dives into companies he thinks are undervalued and those he thinks are overvalued, taking on 60 to 100 positions at any time. Unlike some managers, Mr. Thaler typically holds more short positions in his portfolio than long ones.
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Thaler declined to comment for this article.
Over the last few years, Mr. Thaler's success has won many admirers. And his strategy, while volatile, has worked. In 2008, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down about 37 percent and hedge funds lost more than 20 percent, Mr. Thaler lost just 6 percent. In 2009, he gained 20 percent and the year after put up a respectable 10 percent. Last year, when the average hedge fund lost 5 percent, Mr. Thaler scored a gain of roughly 17 percent.
Those gains have also allowed Mr. Thaler to ascend the hedge fund pecking order, having recently sold a condo on the Upper East Side and taken an 11,000-square-foot home, with seven bedrooms and 9 1/2 bathrooms, in Greenwich, Conn. Some things, however, have not changed. An avid baseball fan, Mr. Thaler sponsors a team each year and plays shortstop.
Returns like Mr. Thaler's can be hard to ignore for institutional investors, especially when interest rates are idling near zero and the market is troubled with volatility. But other factors have also helped fuel Mr. Thaler's rapid growth to roughly $2.3 billion from a little more than $1 billion last year.
Some investors looked to Mr. Thaler after Mr. Shumway closed down his hedge fund in 2010. And top competitors, like Chase Coleman's Tiger Global and Philipe Laffont's Coatue Management, were already turning investors away, according to investors who considered placing money with Mr. Thaler.
Whatever the case, money has flowed in so fast that Mr. Thaler, who was an economics major at the University of Chicago, decided last year to close his hedge fund to new investors. Now, those who squeaked in could be feeling buyer's remorse because their first year with Mr. Thaler is turning out to be a big loss.
Part of the challenge of growth is what to invest in. With more money to put to work, the range of investments needs to expand. In part, Mr. Thaler's move into consumer-related investing reflects an effort to broaden his portfolio. In his letter to investors, he acknowledged that the move had been wrongheaded.
That Mr. Thaler's fund has been volatile is not entirely unexpected. At the end of last summer, the fund was up more than 30 percent, sending institutional investors into a tizzy, according to one consultant who looked into the fund and did not want to be identified because the matter was private.
A short while later, a drop in some of the fund's largest holdings, like Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, ate up nearly half of JAT Capital's gains before the year ended.
''The performance of the funds over the last seven months has been a great disappointment to the team and to me personally,'' Mr. Thaler wrote in his quarterly letter to investors. ''After any period like this, we are left to examine the drawdown and review if a change should be made.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader at the New York Stock Exchange last Friday. JAT Capital, run by John A. Thaler, made bad bets on companies like Sears and Tempur-Pedic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); MATTRESS MFG (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MAN GROUP PLC (51%)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



174 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Increases At Slowest Pace in 2 Years

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The service sector in June grew at the slowest pace in nearly two and a half years, more evidence that the economy has weakened. 
But those same companies increased hiring last month, supporting other data that shows job growth may have picked up last month.
The Institute for Supply Management said Thursday that its index of nonmanufacturing activity fell to 52.1 last month, from a May reading of 53.7.
The reading was the lowest since January 2010. Still, any reading above 50 indicates expansion. The sector has grown now for 30 straight months.
Service companies employ about 90 percent of the economy. They include retail, construction, financial services, health care and hotel businesses, among others. The service sector includes low-paying positions in retailing and restaurants but also covers higher-paying jobs in professions like information technology, accounting and financial services.
The industry has weakened at a time when the broader economy has lost vigor. Employers in the United States have scaled back on hiring. Paychecks are barely keeping pace with inflation, making consumers less confident in the economy. Consumer spending, which drives 70 percent of economic activity, did not increase from April to May.
A separate I.S.M. survey this week said manufacturing shrank in June for the first time in three years.
Still, service companies and factories are hiring. The service sector survey's employment index rose to 52.3, up from 50.8 in May. And the manufacturing survey's measure of employment was 56.6, which suggests solid job growth at factories in June.
The government reports on June job growth on Friday. Economists are predicting employers added 90,000 jobs last month, while the unemployment rate stayed at 8.2 percent, according to a survey by FactSet.
But many economists were slightly more optimistic Thursday after seeing the I.S.M. service sector survey and two other encouraging reports on layoffs and hiring.
Weekly unemployment benefit applications dropped by 14,000 to a seasonally adjusted 374,000, the Labor Department said Thursday. That's the fewest since the week of May 19.
Separately, the payroll company ADP said businesses added 176,000 jobs last month. That is better than the revised total of 136,000 jobs it reported for May.
If sustained, that would be enough to lower the unemployment rate. But the ADP survey has often deviated sharply from the government report, so economists approached the June results with some caution.
In May, the Labor Department said employers added 69,000 jobs, the fewest in a year and nearly half of ADP's estimate. The ADP report covers hiring only in the private sector and excludes government job growth.
One hopeful sign for the economy is that gasoline prices have fallen more than 60 cents a gallon, on average, since peaking in early April. Lower gas prices give consumers more money to spend elsewhere, such as on meals at restaurants, vacations and other services that drive growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rodolpho Mendez preparing tacos in Oregon. Despite signs of a weakening economy, service companies are still hiring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALYSHA BECK/THE OREGONIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (69%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



175 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: New Phase in War on Nutria, a Voracious Invader of Marshlands

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY

 BODY:
PRINCESS ANNE, Md. -- As the sun climbed over the Manokin River, the wake from Daniel Dawson and K. C. Kerr's skiff sent a great blue heron aloft. Swallows darted over the cordgrass and bulrushes, and an osprey circled overhead.
The eyes of the two men were trained not on the sky, but the muddy riverbank. Their quarry was the nutria, a terrestrial -- and highly unwelcome -- denizen of the vast network of rivers, estuaries and marshland that drain into the Chesapeake Bay. 
''I'm pretty sure there was one up there in the last day or two,'' said Mr. Dawson, 41, combing through the grass in mud-encrusted waders on a recent expedition. ''We've got one that comes up here and just grazes.''
A web-footed rodent akin to muskrats and beavers, the nutria has a voracious appetite that wreaks havoc on the bay's ecosystem.
Nutria colonies once riddled the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge, an ecologically fragile reserve on the Delmarva Peninsula, the nearly 200-mile-long isthmus between the bay and the Atlantic Ocean that includes parts of Maryland and Delaware and a sliver of Virginia. Over the past decade, trappers with a federal eradication program have come tantalizingly close to eliminating them, making Delmarva a closely watched example for other nurtria-plagued regions, including the Gulf Coast and the Pacific Northwest.
But they have proved to be a cunning and resilient adversary. Despite the program's undisputed success, nutria have unexpectedly turned up recently in pockets along rivers like the Manokin, a distant pond in Delaware, and a marsh near the Virginia border where they had not been spotted for a decade.
Wildlife officials in Delaware are watching with worry, as are those in Virginia, unnerved by a recent report of nutria close to their sliver of the Delmarva. There are also growing colonies on the coast near Virginia Beach that could migrate to ecologically sensitive areas, said Michael L. Fies, wildlife research biologist with the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries.
Tactics are evolving accordingly, turning the peninsula into a testing ground for techniques to combat the nocturnal nutria. Infrared cameras record their nighttime movements and how they react to lures concocted from scent glands. There are training dogs to sniff out ''nutes,'' as the team calls them.
Technology is supplementing time-tested trapping methods. Surgeons have implanted radio transmitters into captive ''Judas'' nutria to lead them to new colonies. Trackers like Mr. Dawson collect fur from ''hair snares'' for lab analysis. Satellite positioning marks the location of droppings and footprints. The team's leader, Stephen R. Kendrot, jokingly calls their headquarters ''the war room.'' The project has yielded some startling results: nutria tracked with radio collars can travel miles in one night. Their tenacity has earned grudging admiration from the men and women prowling the waterways in pursuit.
''They're a pretty amazing species, actually. I've developed a lot of respect for them over the years,'' said Mr. Kendrot, the eradication project's supervisory wildlife biologist.
Though unwelcome today, nutria did not arrive on their own. Native to South America, they were brought to the United States for fur farming in the 19th century. The market never evolved, fur farms shut down, and some farmers released the animals into the wild. Because they do not hibernate or burrow, they perished in colder states, but have flourished in more hospitable climates.
Females can bear three litters a year with as many as 12 young, which quickly reach sexual maturity. Colonies flourish in salty water and fresh, and can make a home in a storm culvert or next to a parking lot.
Nutria are now believed to be in 17 or more states. They are endemic throughout the Gulf Coast, and there are pockets in Oregon and Washington. Louisiana's population, once estimated to be the largest at 20 million, has fallen after instituting a bounty program for pelts.
Nutria consume a quarter of their body weight daily, feasting on the tender roots of marsh grasses. Those marshes serve as habitat for young crabs and fish, and a natural filter for bodies of water like the Chesapeake.
Destroyed marshes known as eatouts can become enormous lakes. The loss of marsh exacerbates summertime dead zones of oxygen-depleted water in the bay, killing crabs, oysters and fish, said Beth McGee, senior water quality scientist at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, a conservation group.
Virginia is drafting its own eradication plans, said Mr. Fies, the biologist, and does not expect much outcry. No one even wants nutria fur -- a pelt at a recent fur auction fetched just $1.
''They have precious few fans. A large, ugly-looking rodent -- there's not many people out there that are championing their cause,'' he said.
In Maryland, nutria were released from a fur farm next to the Blackwater Reserve in the 1940s. By the 1990s, they were as many as 50,000 in the reserve. Richard Elzey, 58, recalled that he could walk across the marshes when growing up near Blackwater. Today, that same area -- roughly 5,000 acres -- is a vast lake clogged with silt.
''It's amazing what they can do,'' said Mr. Elzey, who works for the eradication program. ''It's a shame, really.''
A 2004 study commissioned by the state found that if left unchecked, nutria damage to the bay could eventually cost Maryland around $37 million each year in lost economic activity.
Then the eradication project, which is financed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service but carried out by a division of the Department of Agriculture, went into high gear. In the first year, trappers killed thousands through the program, the only one in the country with a goal of eliminating all nutria.
The number has dropped off sharply each year. Today, the project is largely in a monitoring mode, having bagged only about a half-dozen in the last 18 months. But the new pockets have the team preparing for a fresh offensive.
After a morning slogging through mud and peering through eye-level marsh grass looking for droppings and nutria tracks, Mr. Kendrot said he would not mourn their disappearance.
''If we can successfully eradicate nutria from the Delmarva Peninsula, that's the legacy this team will leave behind. For me, failure is not an option,'' he said. ''I do not want to be here five years from now, 10 years from now, chasing the last remaining nute.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''A large, ugly-looking rodent'' with ''few fans,'' a biologist says. K. C. Kerr, left, and Daniel Dawson tracking nutria on the Manokin River in Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); RODENTS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); BIRDS (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); ZOOLOGY (73%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (71%); FISHERIES (63%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); WEST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



176 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: 3 Central Banks Act To Stimulate More Borrowing

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Reporting was contributed by Keith Bradsher in Hong Kong, Melissa Eddy in Frankfurt, Stephen Castle in London and Jack Ewing in Manahawkin, N.J.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Concerned about waning economic growth, central banks in Europe and China announced measures Thursday to increase borrowing and spending by businesses and consumers, a response that was all the more striking because it was uncoordinated.
Three major central banks announced policy changes in the space of an hour. China's central bank unexpectedly cut regulated bank lending rates for the second time in four weeks. The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.75 percent, the lowest level in its 14-year history. And the Bank of England announced it would expand its holdings of government bonds by about 15 percent.
The Federal Reserve announced two weeks ago that it would extend its own bond-buying program until the end of the year. 
The actions once again cast central bankers in the role of primary responders to the global economic malaise, aiming at the same basic goal that they have tried to hit repeatedly over the last six years: encouraging people and businesses to borrow and spend and take greater risks with their investments.
But Europe is mired in an economic recession and a political crisis. The United States is faring somewhat better in both respects, but hardly booming. China is suffering what its government has begun to describe as a sharp economic slowdown. And policy makers have not yet succeeded in restoring public confidence that better days are coming.
The latest round of modest measures -- a nibble at interest rates, a few forkfuls of bonds -- are unlikely to change that record, instead stoking the debate between those demanding stronger action and those convinced that central banks have done all they should.
Reaction to the new measures was subdued. Analysts used phrases like ''helpful at the margins'' and ''it doesn't hurt.'' European stock markets rose in an initial burst of pleasure, then receded. American stock indexes fell early, then recovered their losses.
''These are not big steps; I would not expect them to have a huge effect, but I think they move in the right direction,'' said Donald Kohn, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who served as the Fed's vice chairman from 2006 to 2010. ''I think it's certainly the case that monetary policy can't cure all the world's ills, but I think it can do some good, and the central banks of the world are doing what they can.''
The Bank for International Settlements, an umbrella group for central banks, cautioned in its annual report last month that central banks could not solve the structural problems that are plaguing Europe and impeding growth.
Indeed, it said that monetary stimulus ''can buy time, but may actually make it easier to waste that time, thus possibly delaying the return to a self-sustaining recovery,'' by making it easier to postpone changes in fiscal policy.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his European counterparts have tried repeatedly to shift the burden of economic policy making to elected officials, urging them to bolster short-term growth by addressing long-term problems like the level of public debt and the cost of social programs. But countries have made little progress on those issues, and Thursday was the latest in a lengthening series of moments in which the central bankers blinked, sighed and put just a little more sugar in the bowl.
The range of actions announced Thursday highlighted how far they have wandered from the traditional tools of central banking. Policy makers increasingly are selecting among options that are theoretically powerful but largely unproved, and officials in London and Frankfurt announced contrasting choices about the best approach to improve their respective economies.
The European Central Bank announced a reduction in its benchmark interest rate to 0.75 percent from 1 percent, which was once regarded as an effective minimum. The bank's president, Mario Draghi, said he was optimistic about the long-term benefits of steps announced last week by European leaders to bolster the euro zone. But for now, he said, economic problems continued to deepen.
''We see now a weakening basically of growth in the whole of the euro area, including the country or the countries that had not experienced that before,'' Mr. Draghi said at a news conference after Thursday's announcement.
The Bank of England, which already had reduced its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.5 percent in 2009 and has kept it there ever since, chose to pull on a different lever. It said Thursday in London that it would add government securities worth $:50 billion ($78 billion) to its existing portfolio of $:325 billion ($508 billion) in its latest effort to jolt the struggling British economy out of a double-dip recession.
The policy, often described as quantitative easing, works to lower borrowing costs by reducing the supply of debt available to investors, pushing them to accept lower interest rates and to shift money into riskier assets.
George Buckley, chief British economist at Deutsche Bank in London, said the impact of the new asset purchases could increase gross domestic product by 0.5 percentage points. ''This is helpful at the margins, but the big issue is what happens to the European economy as that will be transmitted across the English Channel,'' Mr. Buckley said. ''Fifty billion pounds in quantitative easing is not going to solve the problems. All the Bank of England can hope to do is to offset some of the headwinds from Europe.''
The Chinese central bank has more room to maneuver than its Western counterparts, because interest rates remain relatively high, and because it can set lending rates directly, rather than exerting only indirect influence. It announced a cut in the regulated rate for one-year bank loans by 0.31 percentage points, to 6 percent. And it said banks could charge as little as 70 percent of that rate to selected customers; the minimum had stood at 90 percent until last month, when it was reduced to 80 percent.
It provided no explanation for its moves, which take effect Friday morning. But Chinese policy makers have probably received at least a rough preview of the nation's second-quarter economic statistics scheduled for release next week. Most economists now expect those figures to show considerably weaker growth, at least compared with China's vigorous expansion over most of the last three decades.
''This aggressive policy action reflects, in our view, a deepening concern by policy makers that the economy has yet to find a bottom,'' Nick Chamie, an economist at RBC Dominion Securities, wrote in a research note.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, announced a rate cut to 0.75 percent on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) CHART: Lower Borrowing Costs: The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate on Thursday for the third time since Mario Draghi became president of the E.C.B. in November. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



177 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: India Weighs Providing Free Drugs at State-Run Hospitals

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Katie Thomas contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- In what would be a landmark increase in the Indian government's spending on public health, New Delhi is completing a proposal to provide hundreds of essential drugs free to patients in government-run hospitals and clinics at a cost of nearly $5 billion over five years, officials said Thursday.
The proposal, which could receive government approval next month, would try to fill a gaping hole in the provision of health care at state-owned hospitals, many of which require patients to buy their own drugs, including substances as basic as intravenous fluids. Specialists say it could also be the first step toward a more comprehensive universal health care system in India, which, with 1.2 billion people, is the world's most populous country after China.
Drugs account for more than 70 percent of out-of-pocket medical costs for Indians. Government hospitals and clinics provide free or low-cost care, but most of them struggle to keep up with demand, and the quality of care can be poor. 
For Western drug makers, which have long chafed at India's comparatively weak protection of their patents, the government's plan could be another blow. Although they only have a tiny share of the Indian market, Western drug companies are looking at India and other emerging markets as a vital source of growth as sales flatten in the United States and Europe. Under the proposal, the government would only buy cheap generic versions of drugs, making it more difficult for brand-name drugs to be sold.
The policy move is part of India's stated goal of increasing spending on health care to about 2.5 percent of its gross domestic product from about 1.4 percent. By contrast, the Chinese government spent about 2.3 percent of its G.D.P. on health care in 2009 and Sri Lanka spent about 1.8 percent.
An official in the India's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the federal government would spend about 200 billion rupees ($3.6 billion) on the program over five years. State governments, which are being consulted on the proposal, would be asked to chip in another 66 billion rupees ($1.2 billion). The proposal is part of the country's 12th five-year plan, which covers the government's big spending programs from 2012 to 2017 and is expected to be approved in August.
''This new initiative, if approved as a part of the five-year proposal, would be a giant step in vastly expanding the access to medicines,'' the official, Dr. Arun K. Panda, a joint secretary in the ministry, said in an e-mail message.
Dr. K. Srinath Reddy, who led a committee advising the government on health care for the five-year plan, said the distribution of free drugs could be the first step in a process of providing tax-supported universal health care in India, which he said could take 10 to 15 years.
Initially, India would probably provide 350 drugs that are on a government list of essential medicines, said Dr. Reddy, who has no connection to the Indian generic drug company Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. Many of the drugs probably would be produced by India's many generic drug companies, which include Cipla, Lupin and Ranbaxy. In February, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced that the Health Ministry had begun setting up an agency to buy drugs in bulk.
Big Western pharmaceutical companies like Abbott Laboratories that have acquired Indian generic drug makers could also supply the government, but the program would exclude more lucrative brand-name drugs like Lipitor and Plavix produced by those companies..
Spending on drugs in India was $14.3 billion in 2011, including $3.3 billion for brand-name drugs, according to the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics. Total drug spending is expected to more than double by 2016, to $29 billion.
For Western drug makers in India, the target is not the poor but the growing middle and upper-middle classes, many of whom use private clinics and doctors, which are excluded from the current subsidy proposal. Given questions about the quality and regulation of India's generic-drug manufacturers, Western companies are hoping that Indians with money to spare will decide to opt for brand-name drugs or so-called branded generics, which carry the names of major drug makers.
''We think that there is still a big opportunity in India,'' said Mark Grayson, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry trade group. ''We believe that the economic situation for many Indians is getting better, and we believe there will be a place for good, branded generics.''
Nevertheless, Western pharmaceutical companies face many challenges in India. In March, its patent regulator ordered Bayer to license a cancer drug to an Indian generic drug maker under a compulsory license. The move, a first for India, raised fears among foreign companies that they could be required to license more of their medicines to generic producers.
For about 35 years, India did not grant drug patents in an effort to provide cheap medicine to its people. That helped establish a thriving generic drug industry. In 2005, it started issuing patents for drugs created in or after 1995.
Given the pervasive corruption in India and the poor state of the medical system, it is unclear how effectively the government could carry out the new drug program.
Yusuf K. Hamied, the chairman and managing director of Cipla, a Mumbai-based company that is one of the largest producers of generic medicines in India and the world, expressed skepticism.
Mr. Hamied, a proponent of generic drugs, said Thursday that he had only read news reports about the proposal and was unsure the government could put it into effect.
''Not easy and does not appear workable except if they give free medicines made by the public sector drug companies,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''They don't make a full range, so it will be difficult for them. The government should consult us for practical solutions to their policy implementation.''
Dr. Reddy said that to be successful, officials will have to put in place an efficient procurement, distribution and tracking system to ensure that drugs get to the people who need them and are not stolen by officials involved in distribution, as happens to much of the wheat and rice distributed by Indian states to poor families.
Government hospitals are often run very poorly, and many Indians, including the poor, prefer to pay for care in private institutions at great personal cost. About 71 percent of spending on health in India comes directly from people's pockets, compared with 61 percent in China and 54 percent in Sri Lanka.
Corruption and mismanagement are endemic, especially in the health systems of India's poorest states. Last year, three doctors in charge of a large federally financed health initiative in Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, were brutally killed amid widespread irregularities in how the program was managed.
''Unfortunately, in the Indian system, anything can be subverted if you allow it to be subverted,'' said Dr. Reddy, who is the president of the Public Health Foundation of India, a group that is financed by the government and nonprofit organizations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
But two Indian states, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, already distribute free drugs, and have attracted more people to government hospitals as a result. Last year, the National Rural Health Mission began dispensing free drugs to pregnant women to encourage them to deliver their babies at medical institutions, said Dr. Panda, the health ministry official.
Still, Dr. Reddy said that the provision of free medicines in government hospitals and clinics has declined sharply in recent decades. In 2004, just 9 percent of drugs prescribed to patients admitted to government institutions were free, down from 31 percent in 1987. For outpatients, the share was even lower at 5 percent in 2004, down from 18 percent.
''As a result of high health care costs, 40 million Indians are pushed into poverty each year,'' Dr. Reddy said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drug bills exceed 70 percent of Indians' direct medical costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Patients at state hospitals and clinics like this one in Uttar Pradesh must buy their own drugs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ETTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (74%) UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



178 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Workingman's Constitution

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. FORBATH. 
William E. Forbath is a professor of law and history at the University of Texas.

 BODY:
Austin, Tex.
WORK and opportunity, poverty and dependency, material security and insecurity: for generations of reformers, the constitutional importance of these subjects was self-evident. Laissez-faire government, unchecked corporate power and the deprivations and inequalities they bred weren't just bad public policy -- they were constitutional infirmities. But liberals have largely forgotten how to think, talk and fight along these lines.
And they've done so at the wrong time. The Supreme Court is again putting up constitutional barriers against laws to redress want and inequity. While it handed liberals a victory on the Affordable Care Act, it also gave a boost to conservatives to revive the old laissez-faire Constitution in the polity and courts: new doctrine and dictums for their attack on the welfare and regulatory state. 
But there is a silver lining for liberals as well: in much the same way that the conservative court of the 1930s forced Franklin D. Roosevelt and his allies to construct the constitutional foundations of the New Deal state, today's court challenges the White House, the Democrats and the liberal legal community to reassert a constitutional vision of a national government empowered ''to promote the general Welfare'' and -- in Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's terse formula -- ''to regulate the national economy in the interest of those who labor to sustain it.''
The majority opinion of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., along with the jointly written dissent of the other four conservatives, outlines the doctrinal and rhetorical bases for assailing much of the New Deal-Great Society constitutional order over the coming years.
The opinions are laced with shout-outs to the Tea Party and the right wing, affirming their crackpot originalism. The joint dissent, for example, invokes James Madison's views on the spending power to shed doubt on the constitutionality of three ''federal Departments devoted to subjects not mentioned among Congress' enumerated powers'': Education, Health and Human Services and Housing and Urban Development.
The joint dissent also offers a stark revision of federal spending doctrine that could sharply curtail new social provisions. Even the new doctrine that the majority adopted may hobble efforts to condition federal grants-in-aid on compliance with national goals, like child-care assistance for the working poor.
You would think that liberals would have a full-bodied response. They don't.
Instead, they are on the defensive, training their fire on the revivalists' theory of constitutional interpretation. But conservatives dominate the debate not because they have a killer theory (they don't), but chiefly because they have a bold, clear account of past constitutional commitments, adding up to a vision the Constitution promises to promote and redeem: individualism, small government, godliness and private property.
Liberals have too often been complacent and purely defensive. The Constitution, they often declare, does not speak to the rights and wrongs of economic life; it leaves that to politics. Laissez-faire doctrines were buried by the New Deal.
Until last week, this response may have been understandable. But it was always misleading as history, and wrong in principle, as well. And it was bad politics, providing no clear counternarrative to support the powers of government now under attack from the right.
That's a major failing, because there is a venerable rival to constitutional laissez-faire: a rich distributive tradition of constitutional law and politics, rooted in the framers' generation. None other than Madison was among its prominent expounders -- in his draft of the Virginia Constitution, he included rights to free education and public land.
Likewise, many framers of the Reconstruction amendments held that education and ''40 acres and a mule'' were constitutional essentials that Congress must provide to ex-slaves. They also held that equal rights and liberty for white workingmen required a fair distribution of initial endowments, including free homesteads and free elementary and secondary education, along with land-grant-funded state colleges.
In the wake of industrialization, turn of the century reformers declared the need for a ''new economic constitutional order'' to secure the old promises of individual freedom and opportunity. America was becoming a corporate oligarchy, making working people wage slaves, impoverished and ill-equipped for democratic citizenship.
The New Deal brought this progressive vision to partial fruition. In the preindustrial past, Roosevelt explained in countless speeches, the Constitution's guarantee of equal rights ''in acquiring and possessing property'' joined with the ballot and the freedom to live by one's ''own lights'' to ensure the Constitution's promise of ''liberty and equality.''
But the ''turn of the tide'' came with the closing of the frontier and the rise of great ''industrial combinations.'' New conditions demanded new readings. ''Every man,'' he said, has a ''right to make a comfortable living.'' Alongside education, ''training and retraining,'' decent work and decent pay, his Second Bill of Rights set out rights to social insurance, including health care.
The distributive tradition has evolved, but its gist is simple and durable: you can't have a republican government, and certainly not a constitutional democracy, amid gross material inequality.
That's because gross economic inequality produces an oligarchy in which the wealthy rule. Insofar as it produces a lack of basic social goods at the bottom, gross inequality also destroys the material independence and security that democratic citizens require to participate on a roughly equal footing in political and social life. And access to such goods is essential to standing and respect in one's own eyes and those of the community.
In the face of the court's new constitutional offerings to the assault on the welfare and regulatory state, liberals must remind Americans of the constitutional promises and commitments that led us to create that state in the first place. They must remind lawmakers that there are constitutional stakes in attending to the economic needs and aspirations of ordinary Americans, their dread of poverty and their worries that mounting inequalities are eroding our democracy and its promises of fairness and opportunity.
The Constitution on this account promises real equality of opportunity; it calls on all three branches of government to ensure that all Americans enjoy a decent education and livelihood and a measure of security against the hazards of illness, old age and unemployment -- all so they have a chance to do something that has value in their own eyes and a chance to engage in the affairs of their communities and the larger society. Government has not only the authority but also the duty to underwrite these promises.
Often during the 2008 campaign, and a few times since, the former constitutional law professor in the White House has spoken in this key. Now he might take a leaf from Roosevelt and use the bully pulpit to explain these constitutional ideals for our time. He should defend the distributive tradition and its vision of government as if our constitutional democracy depended on it. After all, it does.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); CHILD CARE (50%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



179 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Stone and His Stoners Face the Weed Killers

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The 19th-century historian Frederick Jackson Turner described the Western frontier as ''the meeting point between savagery and civilization.'' That frontier is long gone, and the meanings of those words have changed, but the West -- California in particular -- still thrives in the popular imagination as a place where wildness and refinement, law and violence, inferno and Utopia collide and commingle.
The more salient border, in politics and pop culture, is the southern one, between the United States and Mexico. One of the jokes in ''Savages,''Oliver Stone's feverish, fully baked, half-great adaptation of Don Winslow's ferocious and funny drug-war novel of the same name, is that the film's title is flung back and forth between north and south -- an epithet that is also eventually claimed as a badge of honor. The Southern California marijuana dealers on one side of the conflict that energizes the film's zigzagging narrative are appalled by the brutality of the Mexican narco-traffickers, for whom torture and mutilation are routine ways of doing business. Some of the Mexicans, in turn, are disgusted by the sloth and shallowness of the gringos, who seem to lack any sense of dignity, tradition, family or honor. Savagery is in the eye of the beholder. 
Both sides have a point, though prejudices and blind spots make clear judgments doubtful. The judgment of the American weed merchants may be further clouded by their continual violation of a basic rule laid down by Mr. Stone back when he wrote the screenplay for Brian De Palma's ''Scarface'': Don't get high on your own supply. (They also ignore another ''Scarface'' rule: Never underestimate the other guy's greed.)
Ben (Aaron Johnson) and Chon (Taylor Kitsch), best buds who grow the best buds on the planet, never think twice about sampling their own wares. Nor does O, the movie's narrator and the hypotenuse of a happily triangular domestic menage. Played with radiant vagueness by Blake Lively, O explains a lot to us, about her own household and the world beyond it. Her real name is Ophelia, and the nickname suggests, among other things, a certain emptiness. But Mr. Stone and Mr. Winslow (who collaborated on the script, along with Shane Salerno) don't quite make her into a caricature of vacuous rich-girl blonditude. Instead they allow O to pursue and to represent a version of the American dream that is open to reverence as well as ridicule. She has everything she wants, and why shouldn't she?
Ben and Chon are the equal and opposite loves of her life, while she is, in her own words, ''the only thing they have in common.'' Chon is a combat veteran, whose tours of duty in Iraq and Afghanistan have left him cynical and suspicious, as well as tactically adept when it comes to dealing with trouble. Ben, a Berkeley graduate, is sensitive and soulful, the poetic yang to Chon's warrior yin. Together they satisfy O and run a lucrative business, which Ben enhances by ''going all Bono'' and putting some of the profits to global do-gooder use.
O, a kind of transcendental housewife, describes their hillside home in Laguna Beach as paradise. Mr. Stone affirms this appraisal with sweeping, sun-drenched shots of the water, the sky and the golden bodies of Ms. Lively and her co-stars, who snuggle together like blissful, exceptionally well-proportioned kittens. This director has about as much use for visual austerity as O and her pals would have for a W-2 form, and at times in ''Savages'' he seems intoxicated by beauty almost to the point of distraction.
Mr. Stone's lush compositions and suave camera movements may surprise -- and maybe offend -- fans of Mr. Winslow's lean, flinty prose, but the sumptuousness of the movie is among its chief delights. Some familiar Oliver Stone tics are evident, notably his impatience with any single format or color scheme. Sometimes he shifts to black and white or to webcam and cellphone video, but the effect of this kind of scrambling is not as jarring as it used to be. Back in the days of ''JFK'' and ''Natural Born Killers'' such techniques made him seem like an especially manic postmodernist, but now that collage and rapid-fire editing have become more common (and less interesting) cinematic features, he turns out to have been a classicist all along.
And also an incurable cinema romantic. ''Savages'' is a daylight noir, a western, a stoner buddy movie and a love story, which is to say that it is a bit of a mess. But also a lot of fun, especially as its pulp elements rub up against some gritty geopolitical and economic themes. Rather than grandstand about these, the filmmakers embed them in a story full of ambushes, betrayals and bloody reprisals, mostly carried out by an especially vivid cast of villains and double dealers.
You will be glad to see these characters. The thing about spending time with potheads is that if you're not stoned yourself, it can get kind of dull, and Ben and Chon, cool as they are, are not always scintillating company. O seems to run a bit deeper than either of her paramours, but the crazy, jangly life in this movie comes from John Travolta as a dirty D.E.A. agent, Benicio Del Toro and Demian Bichir as midlevel criminals, and above all Salma Hayek as Elena, the ruthless queen bee of a Mexican cartel.
You don't want plot summary. The story does what such stories do, with sufficient ingenuity to keep you engaged and digressions that make the movie feel bigger than the sum of its events, some of which (be warned) are extremely grisly. It is, at bottom, a fable of business dealings gone wrong. Elena's company wants to gobble up Ben and Chon's start-up, and while the terms seem generous, the boys are skeptical. Ignoring their D.E.A. pal's warning -- ''Don't mess with Walmart,'' is one of several choice lines bestowed on Mr. Travolta -- they end up in a nasty fight to save the enterprise and also O, whose kidnapping gives the game a personal stake. And for Ben and Chon's enemies too, it turns out that nothing is ever just business.
From the beginning O warns us that she may not be alive at the end, even though she is telling the story, and her blithe comparisons of Chon and Ben to Butch and Sundance (with herself in the role of Katharine Ross's Etta Place) foreshadow a grim conclusion. What happens is more complicated, and may displease some of Mr. Winslow's readers. The way the movie ends can be seen as a cop-out, but I think of it more as a sly commentary on the kind of stories American movies love to tell, and also on the nature of our appetite for those stories.
Savage? Civilized? We'll take some of each, thanks. Like O we're glad to have it both ways: rough and sweet, cynical and naive, champion and underdog. We want everything, all the time, including our innocence.
''Savages'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Sex, drugs, blood, gore. Love it or leave it!
Savages
Opens on Friday nationwide.
Directed by Oliver Stone; written by Shane Salerno, Don Winslow and Mr. Stone, based on the novel by Mr. Winslow; director of photography, Dan Mindel; edited by Joe Hutshing, Stuart Levy and Alex Marquez; music by Adam Peters; production design by Tomas Voth; costumes by Cindy Evans; produced by Moritz Borman and Eric Kopeloff; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 2 hours 10 minutes.
WITH: Taylor Kitsch (Chon), Blake Lively (O), Aaron Johnson (Ben), John Travolta (Dennis), Benicio Del Toro (Lado), Salma Hayek (Elena), Demian Bichir (Alex) and Sandra Echeverria (Magda).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Savages: Taylor Kitsch, left, Blake Lively and Aaron Johnson as drug dealers and lovers in this Oliver Stone film opening on Friday nationwide. (C1)
 Salma Hayek as a drug cartel queen bee and Benicio Del Toro as a midlevel criminal in ''Savages.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); DRUG POLICY (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); CANNABIS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

TITLE: Savages (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



180 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM AFRICA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Dissent Sprouts in Sudan, But It May Not Be Spring

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Isma'il Kushkush contributed reporting from Khartoum, Sudan.

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- They call it ''licking your elbow,'' a reference to pulling off the impossible.
In the past few weeks, from the sweltering streets of Khartoum, the capital, to the usually quiet riverine town of Atbara, hundreds, possibly thousands, of Sudanese protesters have braved police batons and tear gas to rail against the government.
Their placards read ''Down, Down Military Rule,'' and they shout, ''No, no, to high prices!'' prompting a fierce crackdown from riot police officers who have routinely swatted the protesters in the head and have even shot tear gas into hospital courtyards, making some patients go into seizures.
All this raises the question: Is the Arab Spring sweeping into Sudan? 
It seems much of the kindling is already there: a repressive, autocratic regime that has been in power 23 years; a dire economic crisis; heavily armed insurrection in several corners of the country; and a fired-up protest movement that goes beyond the usual suspects of students and unemployed youths to shopkeepers and housewives, all willing to literally take a beating.
Add to that the regional writing on the wall. In both Egypt, to the north, and Libya, to the northwest, popular anger (along with NATO airstrikes in Libya's case) eventually toppled longstanding dictators. Beyond that, Sudan has a history of popular revolts bringing down governments. It happened in 1964 and in 1985.
But many Sudan experts are skeptical that Sudan's government, led by President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who seized power in a military coup in 1989, is about to fall.
For starters, even though he is quickly running out of money to pay his troops, raising the prospects of a military mutiny, Mr. Bashir has fashioned a devious Plan B to hang on, said Andrew S. Natsios, a former American special envoy to Sudan and the author of a recent book on the country. According to Mr. Natsios, Mr. Bashir has built a force of as many as 30,000 special security troops, drawing significantly from his own Arab tribe, with underground barracks and hidden arsenals, who are ready to ''defend the regime street by street'' as a last line of defense.
Mr. Natsios thinks there is a strong chance that Mr. Bashir's forces, if really tested, would try to make Sudan ungovernable and that militant Islamists could then take over.
''I am not optimistic on where Northern Sudan is headed right now -- whether the N.C.P. falls or not,'' he said, referring to Mr. Bashir's National Congress Party.
E. J. Hogendoorn, the Horn of Africa project director for the International Crisis Group, a Brussels-based organization that studies conflict, said that while the new round of protests felt different and revolutionary pressure was definitely building, a few crucial pieces were still missing.
''Unlike in Egypt, as of yet, the Sudanese lack an organized and disciplined party, like the Muslim Brotherhood, that can form the core of the protest movement,'' he said.
John O. Voll, a professor of Islamic history at Georgetown University and longtime Sudan specialist, said the Sudanese military had so far refused to side openly with the protesters, which was the decisive factor in regime change in 1964 and 1985.
The protesters are not giving up, though they are the first ones to admit their movement is rather ad hoc. ''The protests are not organized,'' said a young woman named Mona, who did not want to be identified fully out of concern of arrest. ''These are the people of Sudan who got fed up with the system.''
She added: ''I'm a Sudanese girl and I'm proud of my nationality. I know how rich my country is in terms of natural resources. I deserve a good life.''
Last year, students in Khartoum used Facebook and other social media to catalyze relatively small protests, which were promptly crushed. But a few weeks ago, students at the University of Khartoum rose up again, and this time the unrest spread deep into middle-class neighborhoods where people blocked roads with burning tires. Next came what the protesters called Sandstorm Friday on June 22 and then Licking the Elbow Friday on June 29, Friday being the day of prayer, the easiest time to mobilize people to hit the streets.
Sudan's nose-diving economy is the ostensible fuse. In mid-June, the government announced it could no longer afford to subsidize gas. As a result, fuel prices shot up 60 percent, making everything drastically more expensive, from taxis to tomatoes.
Sudan's economy has been in a free fall since the start of the year, when the newly independent nation of South Sudan, which split off a year ago, completely shut down oil production. Most of the oil in the Sudans lies in the south, but the pipeline runs through the north. The two sides have yet to agree on a formula to share oil profits and are now locked in a very dangerous game of brinkmanship.
Economic woes are rapidly building up on both sides of the border, but the governments of Sudan and South Sudan are desperately trying to hold on until the other collapses first. In the past week or so, Mr. Bashir's government did two things to appease outside critics, evidence of his wily survivor skills.
First, the government announced on June 27 that humanitarian aid would be allowed into the Nuba Mountains, a rebel-held area fighting for autonomy that has been sealed off for more than a year, pushing thousands of people to the brink of starvation. Aid groups are skeptical about the government's sudden about-face and say Mr. Bashir intentionally made the announcement just when the rains started and the roads were nearly impassable, meaning little aid can actually get through.
Then, on Tuesday, a Sudanese court dropped all charges against a woman who had been accused of adultery and was initially sentenced to death by stoning. That case had spawned international outrage.
Moyasser, a 24-year-old protester, said Mr. Bashir, who has been indicted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges for the massacres in Sudan's western Darfur region, does not have a ''clear vision to run the country.'' Moyasser, who also did not want his full name used out of fear of government reprisals, said he had been marching in the streets because ''we lack freedoms.''
But marching may not be enough. Mr. Voll said that unlike protesters in Egypt, Libya or Bahrain, the Sudanese have not been able to occupy anything, not even a single public square.
''When I see tents and a successful control of significant space, an Occupy movement even for just a day or two,'' he said, ''I will be more willing to think about regime change in the near term.''
Maybe that will happen soon. Maybe it will not. But one thing is clear: Come this Friday, and possibly many Fridays after it, Sudanese protesters will be back on the streets continuing in their struggle to lick their elbows.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The scene in Khartoum, Sudan, last month after protesters clashed with the police, left. Opposition to the government there is on the rise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RIOTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); COUPS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); WRITERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%) SUDAN (98%); KENYA (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); EGYPT (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



181 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Chinatown Gambling Raid May Reveal Cultural Divide

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and JEFFREY E. SINGER

 BODY:
Dozens of federal and local law enforcement officers recently descended on a six-story commercial building in Chinatown, wielding weapons and search warrants. They arrested seven people in what they called a crackdown on a hive of criminality.
A top immigration official declared that the building, at 35-37 East Broadway, was linked to a Chinese criminal gang and harbored one of the largest illegal gambling operations uncovered in New York City's recent history. The Manhattan district attorney said two earlier raids there had found similar wrongdoing. The United States attorney in Manhattan sued for forfeiture of the building.
But since the raid, on May 21, interviews throughout the building, including with several of those arrested, have offered an alternate view of the activity inside. Workers and customers described 35-37 East Broadway not as an underground casino but as a home for run-of-the-mill businesses and social clubs catering to immigrant laborers and retirees from Fujian Province in China.
The gambling, they said, was friendly, low-stakes games of mah-jongg and cards. 
Their assertions seemed to be bolstered by the relatively minor gambling cases stemming from the raid. The defendants -- all middle-age or older immigrants -- face only misdemeanor charges. They include a 78-year-old woman who manages a Fujianese women's association on the third floor.
The conflicting portraits of 35-37 East Broadway suggest how the norms of life in immigrant enclaves can sometimes clash with those of broader society. In Chinese culture, casual gambling is common and widely accepted, and the immigrants of Chinatown generally see nothing untoward in gathering in social clubs for games of chance.
''It was just something they were doing to pass the time,'' the building's leaseholder, Ni Jixiong, said.
In fact, even after the raid, the gambling did not stop. On recent visits to the building, people were playing mah-jongg and other games, sometimes for money.
In addition to the hometown associations, where people whiled away hours between long shifts in restaurants and factories, the tenants included a Chinese bakery and shops that sold bus tickets to out-of-town casinos. It had a Western Union concession for sending money to China; immigration lawyers and accountants; and a Chinese matchmaker.
Workers and customers in the building, many of them Fujianese immigrants, said they feared that the raid would lead to the closing of an important resource for their community.
''We didn't understand what was happening,'' said Zheng Jian, 59, manager of the Ting Jiang Kuanban Association on the sixth floor. ''It was like we were terrorists, just like in one of those movies.''
Mr. Zheng said that when officers arrived, about a half-dozen people were in the association's small office playing mah-jongg. A religious altar decorated with incense, flowers and fresh fruit sits in one corner of the office. Chinese and United States flags hang on the wall.
Mr. Zheng was the only person in the office arrested, probably, he said, because he had keys to the room. He was charged with two misdemeanors: promoting gambling in the second degree and possession of gambling records in the second degree.
The police confiscated about $1,290 from a safe and hundreds of dollars from people in the room, including $427 from Mr. Zheng.
According to a receipt they left, the police confiscated two electronic mah-jongg tables, posters, playing cards and poker chips.
''Usually, we just sit around and watch television,'' Mr. Zheng said.
Still, the authorities said the facts did not support claims that the gambling was merely friendly wagering. Nearly half the building was being used for illegal gambling, they said, and tens of thousands of dollars were trading hands day and night.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the federal Homeland Security Department, said in a statement that the building ''has been modified to accommodate these gambling operations, including the creation of a ground-floor slots room hosting computers dedicated to slot machine games and the installation of surveillance cameras throughout areas of the building dedicated to gambling.''
The building's management said the ground-floor business was a so-called sweepstakes cafe, housing computer games that look like gambling but are designed in a way to skirt state laws. They have become popular around the country.
On the evening of the raid, the authorities also arrested four people in a separate building they said housed a related gambling operation. Between the two buildings, officials seized about $163,000 in suspected gambling proceeds.
Investigators had already confiscated hundreds of thousands of dollars in gambling proceeds in two raids at 35-37 East Broadway last year, the authorities said.
Immigration officials and the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., who is prosecuting the gambling cases, would not comment on why the gambling investigations had not resulted in felony charges.
The building's occupants offered several explanations for the large amounts of cash confiscated.
Business in the Chinese diaspora is often conducted in cash, they said. Some association members may have stopped by the building on their way home from work, carrying wages, which are frequently paid in cash.
Others may have been taking part in informal investment pools, a common method for borrowing money among Chinese in the country illegally.
All of those interviewed denied a statement by James T. Hayes, a top official in the New York office for immigration and customs enforcement, that a Chinese criminal gang was involved in the building's activities.
Federal officials said the investigation into gangs was continuing. But Peter Kwong, a professor of Asian-American studies and urban affairs at Hunter College, said the May 21 raid and resulting prosecutions appeared so far to be prosecutorial overreach, given that officials had not yet presented evidence that huge amounts of money were being gambled or that organized crime was involved.
He said gambling at hometown associations was an easy target for prosecutors who want to generate headlines.
''I'm just saying, Look, where is the proportion in all of this?'' he said.
The authorities were also drawn to the building because of another facet of the diaspora's shadow economy: illegal medical care.
In the recent raid, officials arrested two men in an office behind an unmarked door on the fourth floor.
The men, Qiu Jiaxi, 67, and his son, Qiu Lu Hui, 38, were ''examining and treating patients by injecting them with unknown substances and giving them a variety of unidentified pills,'' the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said in a statement. They ''lured unsuspecting patients into their office and put their greed before the health and safety of their victims.''
The Qius were charged with unauthorized practice of a profession, a felony, and face up to four years in prison.
In an interview several days after the raid, the younger Mr. Qiu admitted that neither he nor his father, both from Fujian Province, had New York medical licenses.
But he said that he had studied acupuncture and Chinese traditional medicine in China and in New Jersey, and that his father had been trained in China. Both, he said, had excellent reputations in the New York diaspora as well as in Fujian Province.
''We know we're unlicensed, but we're not fake,'' Mr. Qiu said, adding that they dispensed authentic medicine.
He said they provided low-cost care for poor immigrants, especially those facing language barriers.
''Coming to see us is the only option for them,'' he said. The Qius stopped practicing after their arrests but returned to their office. During the interview, a stream of patients stopped by, but the Qius apologized and turned them away.
Meanwhile, Mr. Ni, the building's leaseholder, said he was seeking to clear out the hometown associations. He said that while he did not believe that they were breaking the law, they were still attracting too much attention from the authorities.
He said he intended to replace them with language schools, after-school programs and a center for elderly immigrants.
He has also posted signs with a single admonition, in all capital letters: ''No Gambling.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a building in Chinatown where a raid on May 21 resulted in arrests over gambling activity. Top, members of an association last month played cards inside the building. Some people described it as a gathering place where friendly, low-stakes games were played, and not a casino or hive of criminality. (A18)
 A pool hall last month on the second floor of a Chinatown building that was raided in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); GAMING (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOMEN (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (52%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



182 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Mortgages Show How Bad It Got

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Just five years ago, the commercial real estate market was thriving. The delinquency rate on mortgage loans was at a record low, and the volume of new mortgages being sold to investors was at a record high.
Now the first of the mortgages that were securitized in 2007 have started to come due, and it is becoming clear just how bad many of the loans were. The time when investors were most eager to buy turns out to have been the worst time to do so.
Commercial mortgages -- unlike residential ones -- are seldom issued for periods of longer than 10 years, and often for as little as five. Many require no principal repayments during that period but call for the entire amount to be repaid in a balloon payment at the end of the loan. So it can be at maturity when the bad news arrives.
''Only 28 percent of the loans from 2007 due to mature in 2012 managed to pay off in full,'' said Manus Clancy, the senior managing director at Trepp L.L.C., which monitors the commercial mortgage market. 
Other loans in those securitizations were for seven or 10 years, so new waves of losses may arrive in 2014 and again in 2017.
Perhaps no loan that was securitized in 2007 illustrates the craziness of the market at the time better than one for a group of apartment buildings in Manhattan. The 36 apartment houses, principally owned by the Praedium Group and managed by the Pinnacle Group, run by Joel S. Wiener, had produced cash flow of $5.4 million in 2006, but they secured a loan of $204 million, on which annual interest payments of $12.7 million would be required.
How could such a loan be justified? The prospectus said Deutsche Bank made the loan based on forecasts that by 2012 the cash flow would have soared to $18 million a year, as market rents in New York rose rapidly while many tenants in rent-stabilized and rent-controlled apartments moved out. It assumed that the owners' expenses would barely increase while rents soared.
The way the bank did the math, those apartment buildings were worth $255 million, so the loan was for only 80 percent of market value.
In court papers, Mr. Wiener has since asserted that Deutsche Bank expected he would be able to convert the buildings, many of them five- and six-story walk-ups, into condominiums.
That loan turned out badly for the securitization that bought it from the German bank, but it also appears to have turned out badly for many tenants in the more than 1,000 apartments. To meet the mortgage payments, the owners needed to come up with a lot more cash than the current tenants were obligated to pay under their leases and New York law. Mr. Wiener may not have needed any incentive to harass tenants to leave, but the loan provided one.
By the time the loan was made, Mr. Wiener's reputation as a landlord controlling more than 21,000 apartments in New York City was so notorious that it had attracted several investigations, including one by the New York attorney general. Betsy Gotbaum, the city's public advocate at the time, had asked Richard F. Levy, a senior partner with the Chicago law firm of Jenner & Block, to represent tenants pro bono in a suit contending that Pinnacle routinely harassed and intimidated tenants and illegally sought to evict thousands of them. That suit was later filed and has since been settled on terms that could force Pinnacle to reduce rents for many tenants and to pay damages to others who say they were harassed, although Pinnacle did not admit doing anything wrong.
The loan went into default in early 2009, but Pinnacle continued to run the apartments. In November, the securitization sold the loan for $116.7 million. Ben Carlos Thypin, the director of market analysis at Real Capital Analytics, calculates that after all fees are considered, ''the net loss to bondholders was 49 percent of the original loan balance.''
Now the apartments are being run by a court-appointed receiver while the new owner of the loan fights in court with Pinnacle over control of the buildings.
Mr. Wiener's office said he was traveling and unavailable for comment.
This loan defaulted relatively quickly, but many others in securitizations can now be viewed as zombie loans. They appear to be alive, but in reality they are dead. That is the case because many properties are producing enough cash to cover the monthly interest payments, which is all that are typically due before maturity, but are not worth enough to enable the loan to be refinanced.
That leaves the securitization with some difficult decisions. If it forecloses, who will operate the property until it can find a buyer? And what price will that buyer pay? It may seem wise to modify the loan, or to simply extend it. Or to pretend that the loan is good so long as some cash is coming in.
Trepp reports that 61 percent of the commercial mortgage-backed securities loans that should have been repaid this year are still outstanding. Half were extended or otherwise modified, while the other half are zombies -- not modified but continuing to exist.
Over all, more than 10 percent of loans in C.M.B.S. portfolios are now delinquent, according to Trepp calculations. The worst category is apartment loans, with a delinquency rate of 15 percent. In early 2007, when the current crop of bad loans were being made, less than one-third of 1 percent of existing loans were delinquent.
For investors in the General Electric securitization that contained the loans on the Manhattan apartments, not all the news has been bad. The way securitizations work is that some tranches of securities take the first losses, while others are secure until the lower-ranking tranches are wiped out. So some investors are still receiving the promised payments, and some tranches still have AAA ratings -- an indication that Moody's thinks they are still safe.
Borrowers are current on their payments on less than one-third of the $3.1 billion of loans still left in the securitization, and more than 80 percent of the properties securing those loans are thought by Wells Fargo, the trustee for the securitization, to be worth less than the amount owed.
The boom in commercial mortgage-backed securities in the middle of the last decade provided a lot of money for underwriters, enabled banks to earn fees from making and servicing bad loans and allowed property owners to withdraw large amounts of cash. The losers were the investors and -- in far too many cases -- the unfortunate tenants.
Correction: July 25, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The High & Low Finance column on July 6, about commercial mortgage securitizations, misstated the financial returns of the refinancing of 16 Manhattan apartment buildings to their owners, the Praedium Group, which was the principal owner, and Joel Wiener of the Pinnacle Group, who was manager and part owner. The owners did not take cash out in the 2007 refinancing, and thus did not realize a profit; it is not the case that they ''probably will walk away with a huge profit'' despite defaulting on the loan.
An earlier version of this column also misidentified the owners of a group of apartment buildings in Manhattan. The buildings were principally owned by the Praedium Group -- not by Joel Wiener and his company, the Pinnacle Group, which managed the buildings and held a 5 percent stake. The column also described incorrectly part of a prospectus for the securitization of a mortgage loan on the buildings. The prospectus did in fact disclose that Mr. Wiener's company was under investigation for its practices as landlord; it is not the case that the prospectus did not make that point.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 24, 2012 

 CORRECTION:
The High & Low Finance column on July 6, about commercial mortgage securitizations, misidentified the owners of a group of apartment buildings in Manhattan. The buildings were principally owned by the Praedium Group -- not by Joel Wiener and his company, the Pinnacle Group, which managed the buildings and held a 5 percent stake. The column also described incorrectly part of a prospectus for the securitization of a mortgage loan on the buildings. The prospectus did in fact disclose that Mr. Wiener's company was under investigation for its practices as landlord; it is not the case that the prospectus did not make that point.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Bad Loans Come Due: The issuance of C.M.B.S. -- commercial mortgage-backed securities -- peaked in mid 2007, just as the worst loans were being made. With some 2007 loans coming due, the delinquency rates on C.M.B.S. loans have risen to the highest level ever. (Sources: Morningstar Credit Ratings (C.M.B.S. issuance)
 Trepp L.L.C. (delinquency rates)) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



183 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Loans Top a To-Do List

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Over the next six months, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a newly formed regulator vilified by the right, intends to overhaul the home mortgage market as a first step toward improving its fairness and clarity.
The goal is to remake the process of getting a mortgage, making it easier for borrowers to understand the kind of loan they are getting and its cost.
Such an achievement by the bureau -- a lightning rod for criticism of the Dodd-Frank regulatory law passed by Congress in 2010 -- would help to establish its legitimacy and quiet its critics as it approaches its first birthday this month.
Richard Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general who is the director of the bureau, said he wanted to show that the bureau could help consumers without drowning banks in red tape. 
''We have an overarching goal here,'' Mr. Cordray said in an interview in his office near the White House, ''which is to restore trust in the consumer financial marketplace. I don't think we are just a regulatory body or just an enforcement body.''
The mortgage market is at the top of the agenda because ''it's the market where consumers have the most at risk and they have the most at stake,'' Mr. Cordray said. ''I expect that the mortgage market in the fairly near term will look different in the sense that, first of all, it will be a clearer and more straightforward place for consumers, and second, it will be a more reliable market.''
This summer, the consumer bureau plans to propose rules that will address the biggest stumbling blocks buyers face. When shopping for a loan, consumers will get a more complete and understandable ''good faith estimate'' of the costs.
Before closing a sale, consumers will receive a single, revamped disclosure form of the terms -- the interest rate that they will pay, how it could change over the course of the loan and how much cash is needed at closing. And mortgage servicers, the companies that collect the payments, will be required to provide clearer information, better service and options for a borrower facing foreclosure.
''If we do all of those things, from beginning to end, I think the mortgage process will work better,'' Mr. Cordray said. ''And that's good for the economy.
''We're in the fifth year now of economic slowdown -- first of all, a crisis, and now a slowdown -- because of what happened in the mortgage market. So it shows the real cost of having a system that did not work.''
In testimony before Congress, representatives of the Mortgage Bankers Association have said the group generally supports the consumer bureau's efforts. But it also favors a go-slow approach, and its representatives have told Congress that they oppose some proposals, like a requirement that settlement disclosures be delivered three days before closing.
Heading toward July 21, its anniversary, the consumer bureau has other goals, like defining which nonbank financial companies will fall under the ''larger participant'' designation that will make them subject to the bureau's oversight.
And it is scheduled to complete a study of the private student loan market. Last month, Congress approved a one-year extension of subsidized student loan interest rates, which means the issue will probably be the subject of political jockeying next summer.
The bureau also recently released an early version of a database of consumer complaints against credit card companies that will be expanded to include other financial service providers.
''It was an important step, although an imperfect one,'' said Bartlett Naylor, a financial policy analyst for the consumer group Public Citizen, who said he hoped that the database would make it easier for consumers to learn from others' experiences.
Mr. Cordray said that the consumer bureau's activities would soon also reflect another part of its mandate -- enforcement of consumer protection laws.
''There will be enforcement action this year, and we have quite a bit of activity going on,'' he said, though he declined to offer specifics.
Jess Sharp, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce's Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, said the bureau needed to be clearer about how it would enforce its rules -- beginning with, for example, defining ''abusive,'' a term included in the Dodd-Frank law but which is new in consumer protection law.
On Capitol Hill, the agency will probably face resistance from Republicans who dislike the creation of a government agency that they say lacks accountability. They want to change the bureau to a five-person commission, subjecting it to greater Congressional control.
''After six months, the only definitive conclusion one can reach about the C.F.P.B. is that it's a rapidly expanding bureaucracy that is increasing costs on small businesses and remains completely unaccountable to the American people,'' said Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Senate banking committee.
The State National Bank of Big Spring, Tex., has filed a lawsuit in federal court in Washington challenging the constitutionality of the consumer bureau and other aspects of the Dodd-Frank law.
Under the law, the bureau was not entitled to begin formulating new regulations until it had a director, which it gained through a recess appointment in January by President Obama. The constitutional question concerns whether Congress was really in recess, and whether the appointment was legal. As it stands, Mr. Cordray's recess appointment will last through the end of 2013, well beyond the end of Mr. Obama's first term.
Other Congressional skeptics see the bureau as a rapidly growing appendage on the ship of state. In its first year, the consumer bureau has grown to roughly 900 people, a quarter of whom came from agencies absorbed by the bureau under Dodd-Frank.
Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who is the chairman of the House Financial Services oversight subcommittee and in whose district the Big Spring bank resides, said the bureau's formation was ''a typical Washington response.''
''When regulators weren't doing the job they were supposed to do, they went out and created a new agency and hired more people to do the job they weren't doing,'' he said.
One of those agencies that clearly did not do its job was the Office of Thrift Supervision, a savings and loan regulator that was phased out. The consumer bureau has literally taken the place of the savings and loan regulators, moving into their offices.
But Mr. Cordray said he was confident that the consumer bureau would not suffer the same fate.
''If there are efforts made, whether in the near term or the long term, to cut back this agency, our best argument will be for us to show the work we are doing,'' he said. ''And I think we will show ourselves to be quite helpful to consumers.''
Online Correction: July 5, 2012, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article published online referred imprecisely to the initial limitations on the activities of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Starting last July 21, it could supervise and enforce existing laws and regulations; certain aspects of its purview, including nonbank supervision, could not occur until a director was in place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Cordray, director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said he wanted to make getting a mortgage simpler. (B1)
 Richard Cordray in his Washington office. He said his bureau's goal was to ''restore trust in the consumer financial marketplace.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (54%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%); SALES & SELLING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



184 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: 'No Child' Law Whittled Down By White House

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
In just five months, the Obama administration has freed schools in more than half the nation from central provisions of the No Child Left Behind education law, raising the question of whether the decade-old federal program has been essentially nullified.
On Friday, the Department of Education plans to announce that it has granted waivers releasing two more states, Washington and Wisconsin, from some of the most onerous conditions of the signature Bush-era legislation. With this latest round, 26 states are now relieved from meeting the lofty -- and controversial -- goal of making all students proficient in reading and mathematics by 2014. Additional waivers are pending in 10 states and the District of Columbia.
''The more waivers there are, the less there really is a law, right?'' said Andy Porter, dean of the University of Pennsylvania's Graduate School of Education.
While No Child Left Behind has been praised for forcing schools to become more accountable for the education of poor and minority children, it has been derided for what some regard as an obsessive focus on test results, which has led to some notorious cheating scandals. Critics have also faulted the law's system of rating schools, which they say labeled so many of them low performing that it rendered the judgment meaningless. 
In exchange for the education waivers, schools and districts must promise to set new targets aimed at preparing students for colleges and careers. They must also tether evaluations of teachers and schools in part to student achievement on standardized tests. The use of tests to judge teacher effectiveness is a departure from No Child Left Behind, which used test scores to rate schools and districts.
Congress has tried and failed repeatedly to reauthorize the education law over the past five years because Democrats and Republicans cannot agree on an appropriate role for the federal government in education. And so, in the heat of an election year, the Obama administration has maneuvered around Congress, using the waivers to advance its own education agenda.
The waivers appear to follow an increasingly deliberate pattern by the administration to circumvent lawmakers, as it did last month when it granted hundreds of thousands of young illegal immigrants a reprieve from deportation. The administration has also unveiled policies to prevent drug shortages, raise fuel economy standards and cut refinancing fees for federally insured mortgages.
Critics question whether the waivers have done much to genuinely shift the focus of federal education reform, given their continued reliance on standardized tests. The waivers ''should probably make the meh list,'' said Joshua Starr, superintendent of the Montgomery County schools in Maryland, which was granted a waiver in May.
Mr. Starr said he believed that education reform should focus on incentives to help teachers collaborate and help students learn skills that could not simply be measured by tests.
''It is another example to me of how we're not focused on the right things in the American education conversation today,'' Mr. Starr said. ''I have a lot of respect for Arne Duncan,'' he added, referring to the secretary of education, ''but it's just sort of moving around the chairs on the Titanic.''
Mr. Duncan, in a telephone interview on Thursday, said states that had received waivers, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, would also use a mix of other indicators to evaluate teachers and schools, like how many students actually enrolled in college or took Advanced Placement exams, as well as reviews of teachers by their peers, their students and their principals.
''You have to look at multiple indicators and multiple measures,'' he said. ''There's been historically a push to way oversimplify what is very complex.''
House Republicans have repeatedly protested the Obama administration's use of waivers as an end-run around Congress.
In a speech to the American Enterprise Institute this year, Representative John Kline, a Minnesota Republican and the chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Work Force, accused the administration of using waivers ''in exchange for states adopting the policies he wants them to have.''
But education officials in the states that received waivers expressed relief from the pressure of the looming 2014 deadline.
''There was a general feeling that there were these goals that no one was ever going to meet,'' said Kelli Gauthier, spokeswoman for the Tennessee Department of Education. ''Now we have standards that are possible.''
Instead of labeling all struggling schools as failing, the waivers direct states to focus most attention on the bottom 5 percent of low-performing schools. ''With the waiver we can focus on those schools that really need a lot of help,'' said June Atkinson, North Carolina's state superintendent of public schools.
One of the most practical effects is that waivers will remove many schools from being branded with the tag that they had failed to make what the law deemed ''adequate yearly progress'' in getting more students to pass standardized tests.
Across the country, nearly half of all schools missed their targets under No Child Left Behind in the 2010-11 school year.
In some states, the rate was much higher. In Massachusetts, for example, 80 percent of schools did not make adequate progress during that school year, and in Virginia, the figure was 61 percent.
Charles Pyle, spokesman for the Virginia Department of Education, said that in some cases, schools that had improved test performance still failed to meet federal goals. ''The idea that 6 out of 10 Virginia schools are failing is preposterous,'' Mr. Pyle said.
But critics say putting a priority only on the lowest-performing schools will let too many others off the hook, especially those that serve minority students, poor children or high populations of students with special needs.
''Are we saying all the schools are good except for 5 percent?'' asked Margaret Spellings, education secretary under President George W. Bush, who now oversees education policy for the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''I just don't get it.''
The administration said all schools would be required to show yearly improvement. ''To label an improving school a failure is the worst thing you can do,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''If they're doing the hard work to get better, it's like, 'Why are we killing ourselves to improve if we're going to get slapped in the face for it?' ''
The waivers also free up about $2 billion in annual federal funding that No Child Left Behind required low-performing schools to use either to transfer students to other schools or for tutoring services.
Maria Campanario, interim principal at Rafael Hernandez School, a dual-language kindergarten-to-Grade 8 school in Roxbury, a Boston neighborhood, that has missed its federal targets four years running, said parents were often confused by the offer to transfer to another school.
''I have parents who come in who are English-language learners, and they would say: 'What does this mean, we can go to another school? You don't want us to be here?' '' she said. ''They would say, 'But we like the school and think it's fine.' ''
Ms. Campanario said she welcomed the discretion to use the funding for ''professional development that is going to support the whole school.''
''If you give me that money,'' she said, '' I will put it to excellent use.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dismissal at Williston Central in Vermont, where officials decided No Child Left Behind waivers were not flexible enough. Education Secretary Arne Duncan, left, oversees the waivers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); DEPORTATION (60%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



185 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PAKISTAN OPENS CROSSING
FOR NATO SUPPLY TRUCKS
After a hiatus of seven months, the first trucks carrying supplies for NATO troops in Afghanistan crossed a southwestern border post. Thousands of containers have piled up at Pakistan's southern port city of Karachi since NATO supply routes through the country were shut down. PAGE A4
INTEGRATING SOUTHEAST ASIA 
Southeast Asia has long been divided by language, religion and historical rivalries, but recent advances like infrastructure development and Myanmar's reforms are bringing the region closer to realizing the goal set by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to establish a common market by 2015. PAGE A4
National
MYSTERY DEEPENS ABOUT
JESSE JACKSON JR.'S HEALTH
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., a Democrat from Illinois who has been on a leave of absence from Congress since early last month, is dealing with a medical problem more serious than initially disclosed. PAGE A14
WAR ON MARSHLAND INVADERS
A web-footed rodent akin to beavers, the nutria has an appetite that wreaks havoc on the Chesapeake Bay's ecosystem. A federal eradication program has come close to eliminating the rodents in the Delmarva Peninsula, but they have proven to be a resilient adversary. PAGE A14
New York
BULLET SHOT AT POLICE OFFICER
STOPPED BY PROTECTIVE VEST
Officer Brian J. Groves was patrolling a building on the Lower East Side when he was shot near the heart at a distance of approximately eight feet, the police said. The shot's impact was blunted by a bullet-resistant vest that saved the officer from grievous injury, and he was expected to recover. PAGE A18
CHINATOWN GAMBLING RAID
Law enforcement officials say a building in Chinatown harbored a huge illegal betting operation, but the charges they brought suggest that at most, there were friendly, low-stakes games being played there. PAGE A18
Business
CHEAP CHINESE CARS
MAKE VALUABLE GAINS
Chinese cars are growing in popularity in countries like Brazil, Russia and Saudi Arabia, where buyers are more interested in low cost than in Western brands. Emerging markets tend to have relatively few used cars, making inexpensive Chinese cars even more appealing. PAGE B1
MORTGAGE MARKET REFORMS
Over the next six months, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a newly formed regulator, intends to overhaul the home mortgage market as a first step toward improving its fairness and clarity. The goal is to make it easier for borrowers to understand the loan they are getting and its cost. PAGE B1
Sports
FORMER TEAMMATES TO TESTIFY
AGAINST LANCE ARMSTRONG
Several of Lance Armstrong's former teammates, including George Hincapie, the rider who was by his side for all seven of Armstrong's Tour de France victories, will testify in the United States Anti-Doping Agency's case against Armstrong and several of his associates, said two people close to the investigation. PAGE B9
CLIMBING BAN IN CUBA
In the late 1990s, rock climbers found a paradise in Valle de Vinales, a national park and Unesco World Heritage site in Cuba, and tourism flourished there. But the enforcement of a government ban on climbing is jeopardizing the sport and the region's prosperity. PAGE B10
Arts
AMERICAN BALLET THEATER
EMBRACES ITS CHALLENGES
To watch American Ballet Theater is sometimes to witness ballet history being made. In Frederick Ashton's one-act ''Dream,'' the season's most illustrious and perfect production, the company is at least as good as today's Royal Ballet, writes Alastair Macaulay. Dance Review. PAGE C1
COMEDY ON THE FLY
In the 15 years since the Upright Citizens Brigade came to New York, the improv troupe has grown into a full-fledged comedy empire. The troupe recently celebrated 396 improv events during their annual Del Close Marathon. PAGE C1
Obituaries
JIMMY BIVINS, 92
He was a heavyweight boxer who in the 1940s and '50s beat eight future world champions but never got a shot at the title himself. PAGE A21
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A21
David Brooks PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RODENTS (72%); MAMMALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SHOOTINGS (70%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (70%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (89%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (68%); JESSE JACKSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MYANMAR (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CUBA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



186 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Romney Changes His Mind, Again

 BODY:
Massachusetts residents who file a state tax return have to provide proof that they have health insurance. If they can afford insurance but don't have it, they must ''pay a penalty through their tax returns,'' according to the state Department of Revenue's Web site. 
This is all thanks to former Gov. Mitt Romney, who set up the system -- the best of its kind in the country -- and is now trying to pretend he doesn't remember how it works. On Monday, his campaign said Mr. Romney believed the identical requirement in President Obama's health care law was a penalty, paid through the tax system. Two days later, Mr. Romney rushed to the cameras to contradict the campaign and insist the mandate was a tax.
Why the switch? As he has on so many issues, Mr. Romney caved to Republican conservatives who want him to campaign on the falsehood that the mandate is a vast tax increase on the middle class. The Supreme Court's decision that the law is constitutional was disastrous to their cause, so they distorted its basic reasoning. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. wrote that the mandate is legal under the Congressional taxing power, which Republicans took a step further, saying the mandate must now be a tax. And not just a tax, but a huge, oppressive tax, one of the largest in history.
It is, of course, no such thing. How many ''oppressive taxes'' are entirely optional? Anyone who does the smart thing and gets health insurance won't have to pay it. It is, as Mr. Romney himself described it in 2006, a fee to promote ''personal responsibility'' and prevent healthy people from freeloading. (Among those who won't be able to comply with the law are poor people living in states where Republican governors refuse to expand their Medicaid programs using federal dollars -- though most of those people don't make enough to have to pay the penalty.)
The tax-vs.-penalty debate is a legal and semantic issue that has no practical impact on the public, but making this argument says a great deal about Mr. Romney's inch-deep position on health care. Since the beginning of his campaign, he has fled from his significant achievement in Massachusetts, hoping to attract conservatives who never trusted him.
His explanation has been that it is perfectly acceptable for a state to do something that would be economically ruinous for the federal government to try. He used the same rationale on Wednesday in explaining why the mandate was a pragmatic penalty in Massachusetts but an insidious tax in Washington.
He'd rather talk about this than admit he once had a good idea to cover people without insurance and that Mr. Obama was right to duplicate it. Now he has no plan except a promise to repeal a virtual carbon copy of his own program.
His hairsplitting argument over federalism obscures the real issue for most people: Is the health care system so broken that government must intervene to fix it so that tens of millions can get proper medical care?
Against all evidence, Mr. Romney and his party believe the private system will simply fix itself if government gets out of the way.
At least, that's what he says he believes now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); MEDICAID (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN ROBERTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



187 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Reports of Weak Retail Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks closed mostly lower on Wall Street on Thursday after signs emerged that Americans are spending at a slower pace and that China's economy may be in worse shape than previously thought.
American shoppers slowed their spending in June, resulting in tepid sales for many retailers. Target's stock fell 1 percent and Costco Wholesale dropped less than a percent after reporting that sales rose less than analysts were expecting.
''It all boils down to one little word: uncertainty,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Rockwell Global Capital. ''No one will spend if it feels like we're in a recession.'' 
The reports raised concerns about Americans' ability to spend during the back-to-school shopping season, which starts later this month. That is a crucial period for retailers.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 47.15 points at 12,896.67. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.44 points to 1,367.58. The Nasdaq composite was 0.04 point higher at 2,976.12.
Eight of the 10 major industries tracked by the S.& P. 500 fell, led by bank stocks. JPMorgan Chase fell $1.50, or 4 percent, to $34.38, while Bank of America was down 24 cents, or 3 percent, to $7.82.
Demand rose for safe-haven assets. The 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32 to 101 12/32, sending the yield to 1.60 percent, down from 1.63 percent on Tuesday.
China surprised investors earlier Thursday when it cut interest rates for the second time in a month. That caused investors to worry that the downturn in the world's second-largest economy may be worse than previously thought.
The People's Bank of China lowered its main lending rate 0.31 percentage point to 6 percent and reduced its deposit rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent. The bank said the lower rates were intended to help economic growth in the second half of the year. Analysts said the cuts were also a sign that Chinese authorities were increasingly concerned about that country's economy.
A slowdown in China, which is the largest buyer of raw materials, can hurt sales at a wide range of companies and cause commodities prices to weaken. Crude oil fell 44 cents to $87.22 a barrel, and copper lost 4.7 cents to $3.493 a pound.
Central banks in Europe also moved to stem a slowdown there. The Bank of England approved a $:50 billion, or $78 billion, injection into the ailing British economy, while the European Central Bank cut its main interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 0.75 percent, the lowest it has been since the bank was established in 1999.
Usually central bank action to spur economies bolsters stock prices. But investors were cautious ahead of the closely watched United States government's report on hiring for June that is scheduled for release on Friday.
''Given the big negative headlines we have had this past month from Europe, business owners would have been cautious about hiring,'' said Steven Goldman, principal of the asset manager Goldman Management. Goldman expects the data to reflect a weak jobs market.
Economists are predicting that the unemployment rate held steady at 8.2 percent.
In addition, weekly unemployment benefit applications dropped by 14,000 to 374,000, the Labor Department said Thursday. That is the fewest since the week of May 19.
An increase in jobs will encourage people to spend and provide a boost to the economy. Though some retailers reported poor sales for June, several others beat analysts' expectations.
Stock of Ross Stores, a discount store operator, rose $4.41, or over 7 percent, to $67.19 after the company said sales at stores open at least a year rose 7 percent in June, easily beating Wall Street predictions. TJX Companies, which operates T. J. Maxx, Marshalls and Home Goods stores, also reported a wider-than-expected 7 percent increase in sales last month. Its stock rose $1.59, or 3.7 percent, to $44.09.
OraSure Technologies surged $1.26, or 10.4 percent, to $13.36 after the Food and Drug Administration approved the company's in-home oral test for H.I.V., which will be sold in stores starting in October.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); METALS MARKETS (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); COST (NASDAQ) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



188 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Apparel Firm Addresses Falling Profits

BYLINE: By NEIL GOUGH; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- With sales and profits falling as Chinese consumers tighten their purse strings, engineering a turnaround at the sputtering sports apparel company Li Ning may seem to be an Olympian undertaking.
At least that must be what the company -- China's answer to Western giants like Nike and Adidas -- is hoping.
The retailer of athletic footwear and clothing said Thursday that its founder, Li Ning, the 49-year-old former Olympic gold medalist, would expand his duties as chairman after the dismissal of the company's chief. 
Mr. Li won six medals as a gymnast at the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles -- China's first appearance at the Summer Games since 1952. More recently, he is perhaps best known outside of China as the man who, dangling from a wire, ran suspended in the air above the rafters of the Beijing National Stadium to light the torch at the start of the 2008 Summer Games.
Today, Mr. Li has the task of delivering the spark in a different high-wire act. In announcing the biggest executive shake-up in its 22-year history, his company, Li Ning, which this year brought in the private equity firm TPG Capital as a substantial shareholder, said Thursday that it would begin a three-year ''transformation blueprint'' to cut costs, reverse falling profits, reduce inventory backlogs and solidify its No. 1 position in the Chinese market for sports apparel.
''We are determined to develop Li Ning into a world-class sports brand, a brand that is fundamentally anchored on sports values,'' Mr. Li said in a statement. The decisions to dismiss the chief executive, Zhang Zhi Yong, and start a campaign to reinvent the company came after ''evaluating the business as it stands today, the challenges both inside and outside the group, as well as where we want it to be in the medium to long term,'' he said.
Other clothing companies in the Asia-Pacific region have also struggled recently. Shares in the Australian surf-wear retailer Billabong International have fallen 29 percent since June 25, when the company announced a heavily discounted stock sale to raise money.
Billabong has replaced its chief executive, and its sales have continued to fall since February, when the company's founder and controlling shareholder, Gordon Merchant, rejected a buyout offer from TPG that valued it at 841 million Australian dollars ($865 million) -- more than three times its current market value.
The chief executive and the chairman of the fashion retailer Esprit which, like Li Ning, is listed in Hong Kong, announced their departures within 24 hours last month. The company has struggled with the economic downturn in Europe, which accounts for more than three-quarters of its sales and has strived to reinvent a brand that Esprit itself said last year had ''lost its soul.''
But while some of the issues confronting Li Ning echo across the industry globally -- slack overseas demand, fickle brand loyalty among consumers -- analysts say the biggest problems the company must tackle are unique to the Chinese market.
Rising affluence among China's 1.3 billion people has driven increased spending on products as varied as cars, luxury handbags, refrigerators and sports apparel in recent years. But a race for market share and a rapid expansion of distribution networks have also created intense competition among specialized retailers, analysts say.
In particular, China's homegrown athletic apparel companies have expanded at a breakneck pace in the years since the Beijing Olympics.
Li Ning competes with Chinese rivals like 361 Degrees, Anta Sports, China Dongxiang, Peak Sports and Xtep International. The six companies had a combined 31,010 stores in China at the end of 2008. Three years later, at the end of 2011, they had expanded to 42,235 outlets -- an increase of more than 11,000 stores.
Analysts say this has left the sector grossly oversaturated by too many brands with too many points of distribution. That forces the companies to compete for consumer demand that, while still growing, has failed to keep pace with supply.
''Strikingly different from other markets, China is the only country with five domestic sportswear brands in the top 10 apparel brands,'' J.P. Morgan analysts in Hong Kong wrote of brands in the Chinese market this year in a research report.
The analysts said the sports apparel sector faced threats like rising costs, a brewing battle for consumer dollars against more general fashion brands and the aggressive penetration of inland Chinese cities by foreign competitors like Nike -- which said last week that its revenue from greater China, which also includes Taiwan and Hong Kong, had risen 23 percent, to $2.54 billion, in the 12 months ended in May.
Li Ning has had difficulty responding to these pressures.
Last year, sales and net profit both dropped for the first time in at least 10 years; the company's published accounts date only to 2001. Revenue fell to 8.93 billion renminbi ($1.4 billion), down 6 percent from 2010. Profit plunged 65 percent, to 358.8 million renminbi.
Shares in Li Ning fell last month below 5 Hong Kong dollars (64 cents) for the first time in seven years. That is less than one-sixth of their peak value of 30.15 Hong Kong dollars a share in 2010.
Compounding the sector-specific challenges, shares in Li Ning and its competitors have been beaten down by investors' broader concerns over slowing economic expansion in China.
China's overall retail sales by value rose 13.8 percent in May compared with a year earlier. Stripping out the distortions to the January and February data caused by the Lunar New Year, the figure for May represented the weakest growth in monthly retail sales since 2006.
Although policy makers in Beijing have in recent months reversed economic tightening measures in a bid to stimulate growth, analysts say they believe the Chinese economy may grow about 8 percent this year, which would be its slowest annual increase since 1999.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Li Ning lit the torch at the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing. Mr. Li founded an apparel company that bears his name. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAUN BEST/REUTERS)
 A pair of Li Ning shoes on the streets of Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); FOOTWEAR (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: LI NING CO LTD (92%); BILLABONG INTERNATIONAL LTD (74%); TPG CAPITAL LP (55%)

TICKER: 2331 (HKSE) (92%); BBG (ASX) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (92%); SIC2253 KNIT OUTERWEAR MILLS (92%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (74%); NAICS424330 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (74%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (74%); SIC5136 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS (74%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (93%); AUSTRALIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (74%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



189 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5063 words

HEADLINE: Earthquake Relief Where Haiti Wasn't Broken

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG; Kara Andrade contributed reporting from Guatemala, and Brent McDonald and Andre Paultre from Haiti.

 BODY:
CARACOL, Haiti -- On the first anniversary of the Jan. 12, 2010, earthquake, in a sleepy corner of northeast Haiti far from the disaster zone, the Haitian government began the process of evicting 366 farmers from a large, fertile tract of land to clear the way for a new industrial park.
The farmers did not understand why the authorities wanted to replace productive agricultural land with factories in a rural country that had trouble feeding itself. But, promised compensation, they did not protest a strange twist of fate that left them displaced by an earthquake that had not affected them.
''We watched, voiceless,'' Jean-Louis Saint Thomas, an elderly farmer, said. ''The government paid us to shut us up.'' 
In Port-au-Prince, meanwhile, with rubble still clogging the streets, former President Bill Clinton, co-chairman of Haiti's recovery commission, had celebrated the Caracol Industrial Park as a glimmer of hope during a ceremony cementing an agreement with the anchor tenant -- Sae-A Trading, a South Korean clothing manufacturer and major supplier to American retailers like Walmart and Gap Inc.
''I know a couple places in America that would commit mayhem to get 20,000 jobs today,'' Mr. Clinton said, referring to the jobs that Sae-A pledged to generate over six years. In exchange, thanks to a deal that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton helped broker, Sae-A looked forward to tax exemptions, duty-free access to the United States, abundant cheap labor, factory sheds, a power plant, a new port and an expatriate residence outfitted with special kimchi refrigerators.
Two and a half years after the earthquake, Haiti remains mired in a humanitarian crisis, with 390,000 people languishing in tents. Yet the showcase project of the reconstruction effort is this: an industrial park that will create jobs and housing in an area undamaged by the temblor and in a venture that risks benefiting foreign companies more than Haiti itself.
Financed by $224 million in subsidies flowing to Haiti as a result of the earthquake, the Caracol Industrial Park is hardly reconstruction in the strictest sense. Its developers, though, take the more expansive view that, in a desperately poor country where traditional foreign aid has chronically failed, fostering economic development is as important as replacing what fell down. Caracol, the promotional materials say, will help make Haiti globally competitive ''without compromising on labor and environmental standards.''
But an examination of the Caracol project shows that its developers played down labor and environmental concerns, accelerating the planning and vetting process in their eagerness to make the park a reality while rebuilding lagged.
The developers -- the Haitian government, the State Department and the Inter-American Development Bank -- chose Sae-A despite its troubled labor relations in Guatemala, where the company closed its flagship factory last year after threatening to move jobs out of the country during an acrimonious dispute with its union.
Before the Haiti deal was sealed, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. urged American and international officials to reconsider, given what it described in a detailed memo as Sae-A's egregious antiunion repression, including ''acts of violence and intimidation'' in Guatemala, where Homero Fuentes, who monitors factories for American retailers, calls Sae-A ''one of the major labor violators.''
But American officials said they did not believe ''compliance issues'' in one of Sae-A's 20 factories worldwide reflected a broader problem. Further, in choosing a site, the developers discounted the fragile ecosystem of Caracol Bay, which contains the country's most extensive mangrove reserve and a large strip of coral reef. Before the earthquake, the bay had been picked from 1,100 miles of coastline to become the first marine protected area in Haiti, the only Caribbean country without one.
''The fact of having chosen this site, I'd call it heresy,'' said Arnaud Dupuy, head of Haiti's Audubon Society.
The United States Treasury Department had concerns, too. Because an environmental impact study was not done properly or far enough in advance, the Treasury, which represents the United States on the development bank board, took the unusual step of abstaining from the vote that approved the $55 million grant to build the park.
Critics also say the State Department components of this project -- a heavy-fuel-oil power plant, a dense housing complex and a port proposed for a pristine bay -- betray the post-earthquake idealism about ''building back better,'' and that the spending of reconstruction funds in Caracol is misplaced.
''I think there was emotion within State that we haven't done anything effective in Haiti,'' said Cathy Feingold, international development director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''There was a guilty sense that we have to do something, anything. But doing it this way is not going to be helpful to Haitians. It's got to be done so there are living wages and the environment is healthy.''
The industrial park's Haitian promoters argue that the perfect cannot be the enemy of the good. ''The magnitude of Haiti's problems is such that any project will have some negative impact, but does one sit back and hope for the ideal situation?'' asked Lionel Delatour, a business consultant.
The industrial park's backers also say that a northern manufacturing hub will create desperately needed jobs, bolster the region and help decentralize Haiti.
The ''urgency of the project'' required some shortcuts, said Jose Agustin Aguerre, the Inter-American Development Bank's Haiti department manager. ''If one had to do this in the normal process of planning and then funding and then decision-making, and only then start looking for clients and only then start construction,'' he said, ''we would have gone 10 years without having an industrial park.''
Still, the park, contemplated before the earthquake, gained urgency only afterward. As shelter construction lagged -- the American government has yet to build and deliver a single house -- Caracol became the beacon of recovery.
This surprised the mayor of Caracol, Landry Colas, who said he had not been consulted about the park's location.
''I would have chosen another site, given that this one was already occupied by people earning a living,'' he said. ''But I'm no expert.''
Industrial 'Frontiersmen'
South of Cap Haitien and east of an intersection named the Crossroads of Death, the industrial park is vast, nearly a square mile, bisected by the Hole of the North River and fed by the Massacre Aquifer. With its big trees chopped down long ago for plantations and its small farms cleared last year, the tract resembles a gravelly lunar landscape. Its perimeter is fenced, and outside the gate, a banner drapes a church, proclaiming, ''Sae-A Loves You.''
In a trailer inside the park this spring, Sae-A executives sat beneath Korean and Haitian flags, taking a break from outfitting the cavernous first factory. Sae-A was in the midst of installing its own cooling system, since the factory did not come with one.
''We thought, 'Maybe they really do want us to create a sweatshop,' '' Lon Garwood, a senior adviser to Sae-A, joked.
A privately owned company, Sae-A (pronounced say-ah) produces clothing in Asia and Central America and reported $1.1 billion in export business last year.
Sae-A executives said they considered themselves ''frontiersmen'' in coming to Haiti. ''There is a big gamble and risk here if things were to go to hell politically,'' Mr. Garwood said. ''What has helped us to mitigate the risk is that we didn't have to come in and build our own power plant. We didn't have to bring in money and buy land and bring in money and build factories.''
Asked about the biggest challenge facing Sae-A in Caracol, Mr. Garwood said that it was finding housing for Korean managers with families. ''They prefer gated communities,'' he said. ''That doesn't exist here.''
Daniel Cho, president of Sae-A's Haiti subsidiary, said: ''You can see. Nothing is here.''
When he arrived from Korea this year, Mr. Cho said, he thought, ''This area is like a white paper and we can draw on it.''
To Haitians, the slate is anything but blank. The land has a history of agrarian struggle, alternating between ''peasant occupation and peasant eviction,'' says the farmers' compensation plan.
Unknown to senior American officials, the site is associated with foreign exploitation. During the United States occupation in the early 20th century, it harbored the Chabert Post, where the Marines ran a prison labor camp infamous for brutal treatment of captured rebels, said Laurent Dubois, author of ''Haiti: The Aftershocks of History.''
One rebel leader, Charlemagne Peralte, an iconic figure in Haiti immortalized on a coin, was initially buried on the property in an unmarked grave.
Residents reclaimed the land from the sisal and sugar cane plantations in 1986, after the dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier fell from power. They divided it into hundreds of small farms, many paying yearly rent to the government and some others squatting.
The Catholic priest of Caracol said the site's history is embedded in ''collective memory.''
''The new factories, they will bring jobs, certainly,'' said the priest, the Rev. Joseph Francis Du Village. ''But the workers will hear the echoes of the past.''
Quake Spurs Financing
In 2009, after a spate of devastating hurricanes, Mr. Clinton was appointed United Nations special envoy to Haiti and adopted the ''build back better'' mantra he would cite after the earthquake.
When appointed, he expressed both affection for Haiti, dating from a trip with his wife after their wedding, and guilt for crippling Haiti's rice industry by trade policies during his presidency.
That fall, his charity, the William J. Clinton Foundation, and the Inter-American Development Bank lured hundreds of potential investors to Port-au-Prince for what they called the biggest trade conference ever held there. The idea of a new industrial park was much discussed, but finding financing was considered daunting.
''And then came the earthquake, and an immense show of solidarity and will from development bank members to have a bigger program,'' Mr. Aguerre of the development bank said.
The development bank pledged $2 billion in new grants to Haiti over a decade. Congress appropriated $1.14 billion for reconstruction, much of it set aside for debt relief, health care and food and justice programs.
About $412 million was allocated for reconstruction itself, which became a fluid concept, with more than a quarter devoted to Caracol.
''Obviously, there was no earthquake here,'' Michael de Landsheer, a senior Haitian official, said. ''But in a sense everything in this country after the earthquake is reconstruction.''
Cheryl D. Mills, Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff and counselor, said the government's experience in previous disasters suggested that ''we must invest in jobs and economic growth while rebuilding physical infrastructure.''
Rebuilding, though, was frustrated by slow rubble removal, difficulties with securing land and institutional problems. A Government Accountability Office report says that less than 1 percent of the $412 million had been spent 16 months after it was allotted.
The report placed some blame on staffing issues. After the earthquake, it said, 10 of 17 Agency for International Development officers left Haiti, and the agency was slow to recruit replacements, like contracting officers, needed for the rebuilding effort.
Initial work on the industrial park was more diplomatic than technical. The idea was that trade might be able to accomplish in Haiti what aid had not.
Export processing zones are nothing new for Haiti. Haitian business leaders speak nostalgically of the booming garment assembly industry of the Duvalier era, when an American government report declared Haiti's potential to become ''the Taiwan of the Caribbean.''
But that era's factories, based in Port-au-Prince, lured tens of thousands of job-seekers, spawning one of the hemisphere's most miserable slums, Cite Soleil. And they did not spur broader development, reduce poverty nationwide or prove sustainable, said Yasmine Shamsie, a Canadian expert on Haiti.
Professor Dubois said he saw the industrial park idea as ''tired.''
''The way I see it, in a deep, long, historical way, Haiti was founded by ex-slaves who overthrew a plantation system and people keep trying to get them to return to some form of plantation,'' he said. ''There have been cycles of this type of project, where the idea is that foreign investment will modernize the country. But things have gotten progressively worse for Haitians.''
Caracol's backers believe their collaboration will produce better results. They have been negotiating with an Asia-based furniture company and a Haitian paint company, seeking to diversify the tenants beyond the garment assembly plants known as maquiladoras.
''Creating an exclusively garment maquiladora zone is something everyone -- I wouldn't say tries to avoid, but considers last resort,'' said Mr. Aguerre, the development bank manager. ''But to be honest, in a country like Haiti, maquiladoras are a good opportunity, a quick employment generator. Yes, it's low-paying, yes, it's unstable, yes, maybe tomorrow there will a better opportunity for firms elsewhere and they will just leave. But everyone thought this was a risk worth taking.''
In spring 2010, Mr. Clinton and Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff set out to woo the apparel industry, armed with Congressional legislation that enhanced the special access of Haitian-produced apparel to the United States market.
When Mrs. Clinton made an official visit to South Korea, Sae-A executives were summoned to the American Embassy in Seoul. Sae-A's chairman, Woong-ki Kim, had been scouting Haiti as a factory location since 1991, and Ms. Mills urged Sae-A to explore his interest more deeply.
The exploration proved dispiriting. A Sae-A feasibility study read more like a ''no-feasibility study,'' Mr. Garwood said. ''It was almost humorous, like David Letterman's Top 10 reasons why we shouldn't invest in Haiti.''
Among the obstacles was uncertainty about whether Haiti's minimum wage for textile workers, scheduled to increase to $5 from $3.75 a day this October, would continue to rise, Mr. Garwood said.
In the late summer, Mr. Garwood, who used to be an agent in Korea for Liz Claiborne Inc., got a call from Paul Charron, its former chief executive and a friend of Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Charron advised Mr. Garwood to ''whittle down the list of obstacles because people in D.C. are really serious about making this happen.''
They were serious because far more advanced negotiations with another Korean garment firm, Hansoll Textile, were on the verge of breaking down.
Sae-A executives whittled fast. By late summer, they were flying with their investment plan to Washington for a meeting with Mrs. Clinton and other international officials in a historic treaty-signing room on the State Department's seventh floor.
''We then went through the document and they kept saying, 'We can find a way to overcome this and this,' '' Mr. Garwood said. ''We would say, 'We could probably do a factory with about 3,000 to 4,000 people.' They're like, 'Wow. What would you need to make it bigger?' I said, 'If we could get a loan for the machines, we could probably double that.' They said, 'What about 10,000?' We said, 'If we didn't have to worry about purchasing the land, if we didn't have to build the factory shells, then we could double it again.' That's where the 20,000 jobs figure came from.''
Eventually, the Haitian government would agree to provide the land, the development bank to finance everything inside the fence for $100 million and the American government to spend about $124 million on the power plant, housing and port.
Sae-A, in turn, would commit to investing $78 million. In a loan application, though, it estimated its initial investment, mostly in equipment and operating funds, at $39.3 million, and it pledged to build a dyeing and knitting mill when it broke even. It also promised to build a school.
In September 2010, Mrs. Clinton joined Mr. Kim and others for a signing of their memorandum of understanding in New York. A former Haitian prime minister, Jean-Max Bellerive, Mr. Clinton's co-chairman on the recovery commission, called it ''a great day for Haiti.''
Warnings on Labor Practices
After the signing, labor groups, alarmed at the choice of Sae-A, started documenting their concerns about a company they perceive very differently than American officials.
Gail W. Strickler, for instance, the assistant United States trade representative for textiles, says she considered Sae-A ''an exemplary corporate citizen.'' In contrast, Scott Nova, executive director of the Workers Rights Consortium, calls the company ''a big player in a dirty industry with a track record that suggests a degree of ruthlessness even worse than the norm.''
In December 2010, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. sent the park's backers a five-page memo summarizing what it called Sae-A's ''worst labor and criminal law violations'' in Guatemala. It accused Sae-A of using bribes, death threats and imprisonment to prevent and break up unions and said a local union suspected company officials of involvement in a union leader's rape never investigated by Guatemalan authorities.
Mr. Garwood said there was no evidence of violence or threats of violence by Sae-A. He acknowledged that some company officials -- ''bad eggs'' -- suppressed a unionization drive at its flagship Guatemalan factory in 2005.
That year, in an episode described in an American diplomatic cable, Sae-A managers, assisted by the police, detained 16 pro-union petition signers and threatened arrest if they did not resign. Most did; the rest were jailed.
Gap Inc., a client of the factory, intervened. The workers were ultimately permitted to unionize, the cable said, pronouncing the American Embassy ''extremely pleased with how this problem turned out.''
Guatemalan union leaders, however, said in interviews that hostility toward the union never diminished and that working conditions remained tough. One leader, Delfina Vincente Yac, 26, said supervisors, cursing, drove workers at an unrelenting pace and routinely proposed ''incentive pay'' for sex.
Alejandro Argueta, a lawyer who worked for Sae-A and then for its unions, said the company had ''seldom met legal requirements.'' He said that in 2009, when the union, emboldened by a government ruling, started pressing Sae-A for unpaid wages, bonuses and benefits, the situation deteriorated.
According to the formal minutes of a labor-management meeting, a Sae-A executive accused union leaders of saddling the company with expenses that would force the factory's closing. ''It should be made clear,'' the executive said, ''that the members of the board of directors would simply go to work in another country and the real losers would be the workers.''
Mr. Argueta filed criminal cases in Guatemala against Sae-A for antiunion discrimination and discrimination against women. (The cases never went anywhere.) He also appealed to Gap, writing, ''The production of Gap clothing is being carried out amidst screaming, threats and even in some cases assaults on workers.''
At the end of 2009, Gap ceased production in Guatemala.
In early 2010, discord erupted into days of protests, quelled by a battalion of riot police. After that, Mr. Argueta said, ''a series of harassments and persecutions began, more forceful than you can imagine, against all of us.''
Before long, almost all the union leaders had accepted money to quit, Mr. Argueta said. Ms. Vincente Yac, then pregnant, said a factory manager offered her $2,500 to quit ''for your good and the good of your baby'' or risk being ''chopped into little pieces.''
She held a news conference instead, after which she was denounced by company officials over the factory loudspeaker, Mr. Argueta said, and his office was ransacked.
Mr. Garwood denied the allegations by union leaders, saying the company never threatened or engaged in violence.
Although no longer producing there, Gap sent monitors who suggested managerial training about verbal, sexual and psychological abuse, freedom of association and dismissal policies.
A follow-up visit in December 2010 found the training done and the atmosphere improved but only seven union members remained -- according to an e-mail from Gap that Sae-A forwarded to American officials days before the Haiti deal was signed.
State Department officials said that when they learned the A.F.L.-C.I.O. report was being prepared, they had started asking embassy officials in Guatemala, trade officials and garment industry leaders about Sae-A. They found only some ''compliance issues'' that had been remedied, they said. They acknowledge that they did not, as Ms. Feingold of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. put it, ''hit pause'' and conduct a full inquiry into the allegations.
In the fall of 2011, Sae-A closed its flagship Guatemalan factory. A local newspaper reported: ''A Maquila Closes and Goes to Haiti.''
Mr. Garwood attributed the closing to rising costs in Guatemala, saying, ''There's a lot of price pressure from our American retailers to keep prices low and competitive.''
Sae-A had already been shifting production to lower-cost Nicaragua, where labor groups also report antiunion repression. Once trade preferences expire in Nicaragua in 2014, Mr. Garwood said, Sae-A hopes ''a lot of product orders now going to factories in Nicaragua can go through the Haiti operation.''
American officials said Sae-A would be closely monitored in Haiti because of trade legislation requiring stringent scrutiny through an American-financed inspection program.
But Yannick Etienne, a Haitian workers' advocate, said ''it remains to be seen'' whether the inspection program will have ''any teeth.'' She and American labor advocates worry, too, that Caracol will undermine the nearby Codevi industrial park, the only unionized garment operation in the country.
Fernando Capellan, the owner of Codevi, said, ''They're going to destroy my jobs to create cheaper jobs in Caracol.''
Environmental Conflicts
Building back better was supposed to put Haiti's perennially neglected environment front and center. ''Every reconstruction project should be judged in part by whether it advances environmental protection,'' Mark L. Schneider, senior vice president of the International Crisis Group, said in Congressional testimony.
It shocked environmentalists when they learned Caracol would become home to a giant industrial park.
Caracol Bay had relatively intact offshore mangroves, fringing coral reefs and critically endangered species like the Atlantic leatherback sea turtle and the black jewfish. It also had a vibrant but threatened fishing industry and potential for tourism, between its reefs and its rich history: it is believed to be where Christopher Columbus's flagship, the Santa Maria, ran aground.
''Caracol is not only sensitive from the point of view of biodiversity, it's the birthplace of the New World,'' Mr. Dupuy of the Audubon Society said.
Before the earthquake, environmentalists had designated Caracol Bay to become the country's first marine protected area. The park imperiled a crucial conservation effort, the president of the Global Environmental Facility, the leading public funder of environmental projects, wrote in a letter to the development bank president.
But it was the Haitian government that had selected the site, the development bank said, after an American consulting firm, scouting northern locations, included it among the top three options. The government-owned Caracol site was considered to have the best soil and water resources, which was also why it made good farmland.
The consultants acknowledged later that they had done no environmental analysis before making their recommendations.
In January 2011, the same consultants returned to do a more in-depth study, required for financing. This time, they sounded some alarms, upgrading the project from moderate to high risk, citing the probable influx of job-seekers and the fragility of the bay. They said that the bay would be endangered even if the wastewater were treated and that the threat to the ecosystem and the aquifer needed further study.
An additional environmental strain is posed by the American-financed power plant, which will burn heavy fuel oil. Although it is the most polluting option, it was selected to make electricity affordable to Haitian consumers, American officials said. Still, the State Department's environmental consultants cautioned that the plant, once at its maximum capacity, would exert a ''strongly negative'' impact on air quality.
Dismayed by the industrial park's location, Haiti's environment minister, Joseph Ronald Toussaint, said he is nonetheless trying to create a ''win-win situation.'' Summoning environmentalists and developers to Port-au-Prince, he called for proper drainage, waste treatment and waste disposal as well as for a regional master plan, which a nonprofit affiliate of the American Institute of Architects was hired to do.
Some global environmental officials said the architects' group was being asked to create a plan to accommodate decisions already made.
But Erica Gees, managing director of the architects' group, said, ''We could spend a lot of time dwelling on whether it's the right place or the wrong place or we could move forward and help the Haitian people.''
A major challenge will be managing the expected surge in population. How the American-financed housing project fits into the picture is unclear.
Though advertised as ''within commuting distance'' of the Caracol Industrial Park, the project is not being described as workers' housing by the American government. State Department officials say the favored beneficiaries are quake victims who fled north although they do not know how many remain there two and a half years later.
While an American plan to construct 4,500 houses across the country was approved by Haiti's recovery commission in December 2010, the first contracts were not signed until this April -- and for only 906 houses, mostly in Caracol.
Asked why it took so long, Ms. Mills said, ''Building housing for new neighborhoods takes time and involves frequent consultation with communities and their leaders to refine layouts, designs and engineering.''
Because of community input, for instance, the new houses will be much larger than planned, although still quite small: 365 square feet for families averaging five to six members. In contrast, the American Embassy in Port-au-Prince is set to build town houses of 1,400 to 2,690 square feet each for its own personnel.
The budget for the 750 concrete-block houses in the Caracol area is about $20 million. The budget for the embassy complex, which will have 86 to 100 town houses and recreational amenities, is $85 to $100 million.
Described by American officials as a cost-efficient use of space, the Caracol housing project is criticized as ''extremely dense and monotonous'' and ''violating numerous principles inherent to sound urban design'' by Greg Higgins, an architect who wrote a scathing peer review.
'Money Has No Roots'
Sandy, slow-paced Caracol contains two hamlets whose names sum up the dirt-poor area's economic identity to date: Caracol-Fish and Caracol-Bananas. The incongruous billboards for the shiny, new industrial park trumpet the change that the 15,000 local residents hope for and fear.
''My dream,'' said Mayor Colas, ''is that this becomes a different city, better than what we have been, a city of the future. My nightmare is that we become Cite Soleil, a giant slum.''
Mayor Colas, who has attended several signing ceremonies with international officials, said he has felt on occasion as if they were using him.
''They stop by City Hall, they greet me, but there's no relationship,'' he said. ''Foreigners know more about what's going on in Caracol than I do.''
Next to City Hall, a cheery, American-financed kiosk promises, ''All information is free.'' So, initially, was the labor of the kiosk's two community liaisons who worked there daily for the first four months of this year without seeing a paycheck from the government. That made them increasingly blunt with the thousands who made job inquiries.
''We now tell people we don't know what is done with their applications,'' Suzanne Pierre, 32, who lost her husband to the earthquake, said before she was finally paid in mid-May.
Feeling that nobody had spoken frankly to the local people, a 29-year-old Baptist pastor named Lyvinx Joseph called a recent meeting at the church outside the industrial park's gate. He wanted to lower expectations, he said; Caracol residents had been waiting with increasing impatience for the 20,000 jobs to materialize while Sae-A will hire only about 1,500 workers this year.
Mr. Joseph told his audience he felt caught between allegiances. He said he was a ''Sae-A man'' now, one of 20 Haitians recently returned from a company apprenticeship in Nicaragua. He was also a Caracol native whose father was ''dispossessed'' of his farmland.
''If I remember correctly, the Sae-A offices are located precisely where my father used to cultivate sweet cassava,'' he said.
The Haitian government paid the farmers for the harvest they lost and promised them alternative land elsewhere. All the farmers interviewed said they were frustrated being idle and had already burned through the cash.
''The problem is that money has no roots,'' Mr. Saint Thomas, the elderly farmer, said. ''A banana tree? Cut the fruit, it grows again. Money -- once you use it, it's gone.''
After the meeting, Mr. Joseph confided that his experience in Nicaragua had been disillusioning and said he would quit his job with Sae-A as soon as he found a replacement.
''The way the Koreans treat the Nicaraguan workers is awful,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''They just treat them like nothing. Just: 'Do your job. If you don't do it, I'll call somebody else to do it.' ''
But he did not divulge this at the meeting. As women fanned themselves and men mopped their brows, Mr. Joseph urged the people to push -- nonviolently -- for their right to benefit from the park that might bring pollution and outsiders to their community.
''If you were the first to lose,'' he told them, ''you should be the first to gain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A billboard near Caracol, Haiti, promises: ''Opportunities lie ahead. Get ready to catch them.'' (A1)
A billboard on the road to Caracol, Haiti, tells of opportunities to come with a new industrial park. At right, construction workers entering the site of the project.
Fisherman near the mangroves in Caracol Bay. Before the 2010 earthquake, the bay had been picked from 1,100 miles of Haitian coastline to become the first marine protected area in Haiti.
Jean-Louis Saint Thomas by land he once farmed, now part of an industrial park. ''We watched, voiceless,'' he said. (A10)
A factory being built for Sae-A Trading, a South Korean garment company, at the Caracol Industrial Park. At right, a power plant under construction in the complex.
Labor advocates worry that the Caracol project will undermine the nearby Codevi industrial park, the only unionized garment operation in the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) MAPS: The Caracol Industrial Park is on about a square mile of former farmland. A river flows through it into Caracol Bay, which contains Haiti's most extensive mangrove reserve and a strip of coral reef. (MAPS FROM GEOEYE AND GOOGLE EARTH
 THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER RELIEF (91%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); APPAREL MFG (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (67%); RETAILERS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (82%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (60%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (60%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



190 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Ailing British Insurer Planning To Drop 16 Lagging Divisions

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON (Reuters) -- Aviva, one of Britain's largest insurers, plans to sell or close more than a quarter of its businesses in a shake-up aimed at regaining the support of investors upset by the group's flagging share price. 
The company, whose weak stock market performance led to the removal in May of Andrew Moss, the chief executive, will jettison 16 businesses that account for 18 percent of operating profit, it said on Thursday.
The assets earmarked for sale or closing include Aviva's South Korean arm, its bulk purchase annuity unit and its stake in a Dutch rival, Delta Lloyd.
''They've at last got to the nub of the matter, which is that they've got lots of business units that are not making a proper return on risk capital,'' said Kevin Ryan, an Investec analyst. ''But clearly there's enormous execution risk in that this is not an environment in which to try and sell.''
After the market closed in Britain, Aviva said that it would sell up to 25 million shares in Delta Lloyd, equivalent to a 14 percent stake.
The insurer declined to name the other assets up for sale, as doing so might hinder efforts to sell them. Analysts said Aviva's sizable United States arm, acquired for $:2 billion in 2006, was probably also on the block.
Aviva's regulatory capital buffer fell by one-third between July and September last year as the escalating crisis in the euro area set off sharp declines in the value of bonds issued by heavily indebted governments.
The insurer said it sold 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of Italian sovereign debt in June, reducing its holding to 5 billion euros. It also announced $:400 million of cost cuts to be achieved in part by a cull of middle management.
Aviva's chairman, John McFarlane, who has been in day-to-day control since Mr. Moss resigned, said there would be no need to raise equity or cut the dividend provided economic conditions did not deteriorate, adding that the insurer would prefer to sell assets if they did.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); DIVIDENDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); EURO (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%); EURO ZONE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: AVIVA PLC (92%); INVESTEC LTD (56%)

TICKER: AV (NYSE) (92%); AV (LSE) (92%); INL (JSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW MOSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



191 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Experts Are Split Over Effects of Employment Numbers on Voters' Decisions

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY and JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Economists are slashing their already tepid growth forecasts. The unemployment rate seems stuck at around 8 percent. It is a tense time for the American economy. It is also the time that some experts believe the country's undecided voters are beginning to cement their presidential picks.
That is why many political scientists and consultants consider Friday's jobs report and the ones immediately following it to be so important -- perhaps more so than those of the previous three years.
''I don't know whether it is because American voters are myopic, or because they are forward-looking,'' said Andrew Gelman, the director of the Applied Statistics Center at Columbia University. ''But they appear to care most about change in the economy in the year preceding the election,'' rather than the state of the economy over an incumbent president's first four years. 
Some narrow the critical period even more, arguing that what happens from April until October of an election year weighs especially heavily on voters' minds.
''It's difficult to sort out the electoral effects of specific slivers of economic conditions,'' said Larry M. Bartels, a Vanderbilt University professor of political science. But he cited the economic climate of the middle of the election year as unusually important -- a time when even wavering voters begin to lock in decisions on the presidential race and lock out conflicting reports about the economy.
This political reality is not lost on the Obama and Romney campaigns, which have sparred over the state of the economy to the near exclusion of every other issue.
Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, has centered his campaign on the notion that President Obama's incompetence as an economic steward has made recovery weaker than it need have been -- with unemployment too high and job growth too slow.
Mr. Obama has countered that Mr. Romney's business record at Bain Capital epitomizes the profits-at any-cost philosophy that has cut middle-class jobs. As for his own record, he argues that pushing the 2009 stimulus program through Congress has helped the economy rebound and that without it, the nation would be in worse economic straits.
''Throughout history, it has typically taken countries up to 10 years to recover from financial crises of this magnitude,'' Mr. Obama said recently, noting the sustained recessions in Europe. He added, ''Our economy started growing again six months after I took office, and it has continued to grow for the last three years.''
The question now is which economic messages will sink in among the pool of voters -- roughly one in 10 -- who tell pollsters they are undecided.
Steve Schmidt, the 2008 campaign manager for Senator John McCain's presidential bid, said voter attitudes about the economy had solidified already and would not be much affected by new jobs numbers on Friday or the rest of the year.
''The shape of the playing field is largely set,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''They believe it's a very bad economy. They're pessimistic and they're anxious. The campaign that wins is the campaign best able to address the anxiety. It's a comfort argument.''
So far, he added, polls show Mr. Obama making headway in swing states with his attacks on Mr. Romney's priorities, his finances and his record at Bain. But Mr. Romney will have ample opportunity to sell his ideas for economic growth this fall.
''The arguments that campaigns put out in July and August are largely unheard by the people who will decide the election,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''Both sides are putting down markers for the arguments they'll make in the fall.''
Moreover, the arguments likeliest to prove decisive will come not from candidates directly, but from peers and acquaintances of those undecided voters -- whom campaign strategists consider the most persuasive messengers. ''Both campaigns will have extraordinarily sophisticated outreach and targeting operations,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''If you're an undecided teacher, you'll get phone calls from other teachers,'' as well as messages from Facebook friends and Twitter followers.
Analysts say voters give more heed to where the economy is headed than to its current state. That means a president overseeing a high but falling unemployment rate might have a better shot than a president overseeing a lower but increasing one.
To make the point, Mr. Gelman used the presidencies of Jimmy Carter, who did not win re-election, and Ronald Reagan, who did. ''Under Carter, the economy did well and then got worse,'' he said. ''Under Reagan, it got worse and then got better. If you average over four years, the economy was better under Carter than Reagan. But that is not how voters think.''
The theory stands up, with some caveats, in recent elections. President George Bush lost his 1992 bid for re-election with joblessness just starting to recede after the early 1990s recession; the trend did not start early enough for voters to give him credit. An earlier upturn helped the man who defeated him, Bill Clinton, win a second term in 1996.
Studies also show that voters make their decisions based less on their personal experiences than a general sentiment -- meaning news articles about the national economy this summer might be more influential than each voter's experience, or a neighbor's business, or a cousin's or child's trouble getting a job.
''If I'm the voter, I'm not paying attention to statistics,'' said John Sides, an associate professor of political science at George Washington University. ''I'm not going to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Web site to look at the jobs report. I'm paying attention to news reports. And the trend in unemployment is often driving the news coverage.''
Some pollsters reject the idea that summer economic measures will settle the choices of undecided voters, who tend to make up their minds very late.
''Personally, I think it borders on the ridiculous,'' said Mark Mellman, a prominent Democratic pollster. ''No one can say for sure that anything is truly locked in at any point.'' But others said that polls and studies demonstrated the outsize influence of second- and third-quarter economic data. ''It's more that economic changes take several months to be felt by voters,'' said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster.
In a worrisome trend for the Obama campaign, much of the economic strength of the winter has dissipated. Forecasters expect the jobs and growth reports in the next few months to be uninspiring. Bright spots in the recovery -- like exports and the manufacturing sector -- seem to be stalling out.
''Events that occur between now and the election do matter, and communications changes obviously speed everything up,'' said Mr. Ayres. ''But voters have to see a lot more jobs in their communities between now and then, and time is running out on that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HISTORY (65%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



192 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Files Trade Complaint Against China on Vehicles

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON The United States filed a trade complaint against China on Thursday for new duties it imposed on American-made cars and trucks.
The move came as President Obama kicked off a campaign bus tour through the manufacturing heartland of Pennsylvania and Ohio. The Ohio-built Jeep Wrangler is among the cars affected. 
China levied the duties, which the administration said cover about $3.3 billion worth of auto exports to China, after the Obama administration bailed out General Motors and Chrysler in the wake of the financial crisis in 2008.
''As we have made clear, the Obama administration will continue to fight to ensure that China does not misuse its trade laws and violate its international trade commitments to block exports of American-made products,'' Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said in a statement confirming the trade case against China. ''American auto workers and manufacturers deserve a level playing field and we are taking every step necessary to stand up for them.''
There was no immediate reaction from the Chinese government, which typically waits a day or two before responding publicly to American trade policy moves.
The automotive case is the latest in a long series of trade cases brought by the United States against China. Previous cases include a challenge at the World Trade Organization against China's restrictions on exports of rare-earth minerals, in a case filed in March with the European Union and Japan, and challenges to Chinese policies on other products as varied as zinc, certain kinds of steel and various chicken parts.
Mr. Obama has used his administration's saving of the auto industry as a calling card in the industrial Midwest, particularly in Ohio, which is seen as a bellwether in presidential elections. In a recent survey by Quinnipiac University, Mr. Obama was leading his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, in Ohio by 47 percent to 38 percent his largest lead in recent polls, which have consistently showed a close race.
Mr. Romney opposed the administration's bailout, and Mr. Obama loses few opportunities to remind voters in Ohio, Michigan and other states with automotive factories that his opponent advocated allowing Detroit to go bankrupt.
Taking a tough line toward China on trade issues is a tried-and-true strategy during election years. The administration's action builds on a complaint filed in March against China for its alleged hoarding of rare-earth minerals, which are used to manufacture a range of sophisticated technology products.
Mr. Romney has called for much tougher steps against China on issues like intellectual property and currency policy. He has said he would label China a currency manipulator a step that the Obama administration has steadfastly resisted.
The Obama campaign is calling this tour, which will wind from industrial areas outside Toledo to near Cleveland and on Friday to Pittsburgh, the ''Betting on America'' bus tour. Jeep Wranglers are manufactured in a factory in Toledo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); EXPORT CONTROLS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON KIRK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



193 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: China Cuts Rates in Bid to Reverse Slowdown

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG China's central bank unexpectedly cut regulated bank lending rates by nearly a third of a percentage point on Thursday evening, and made a rule change that could further reduce borrowing rates for companies with good credit by an additional three-fifths of a percentage point.
The double-barreled move comes just four weeks after a similar rate reduction and rule change by the People's Bank of China, and underlines the growing worries in Beijing about what the government has begun to describe as a sharp economic slowdown. 
Much like top Federal Reserve officials receive advance warning of economic statistics in the United States, Chinese policy makers have almost certainly received at least a rough preview of second-quarter economic statistics due for release next week. Most economists now expect those figures to show considerably weaker-than-usual growth, at least compared with China's vigorous expansion over most of the last three decades.
Surveys of business executives in recent weeks have shown low expectations for overall manufacturing activity, along with concern about slackening orders and mounting inventories of unsold goods. Many property developers are facing cash shortages as real estate prices have fallen by as much as 20 percent in the last year, although the latest official data in the last week has suggested that prices may finally be leveling off or even ticking up slightly.
Coal prices have been falling for the last nine straight weeks, as demand for electricity has slowed from its usual double-digit pace. The quantity of coal stored at major Chinese ports is at record levels. Huge piles of unsold coal now line roads in the coal-mining districts as mine owners maintain production but have been leery of selling at depressed prices.
The People's Bank of China reduced the regulated rate for one-year bank loans by 0.31 percentage points, to 6 percent.
At the same time, the central bank also said that banks would be allowed to charge as little as 70 percent of the regulated interest rate to good customers; the previous minimum, set a month ago, had been 80 percent. And until the initial rule change early last month, banks had been required to charge at least 90 percent of the regulated rate, even to their best customers.
On Thursday, the central bank also lowered the regulated minimum interest rate that banks must pay depositors. But the reduction in deposit rates was smaller, a quarter of a percentage point.
The smaller change in deposit rates is the latest sign that Chinese banks have found themselves lately in the unfamiliar position of struggling to persuade Chinese households and companies to deposit more money. A variety of trusts and other investment vehicles have become popular in China as savers have begun to rebel at very low regulated deposit rates, which will fall to a minimum of 3 percent for one-year certificates of deposit with the changes announced on Thursday evening.
China's central bank provided no explanation for its moves, which take effect on Friday morning. But the initial reaction of private sector economists was that the rate cuts represented a signal of genuine worry by Chinese decision makers
''This aggressive policy action reflects, in our view, a deepening concern by policy makers that the economy has yet to find a bottom and requires additional stimulative monetary settings to engineer a recovery,'' Nick Chamie, an economist at RBC Dominion Securities, wrote in a research note.
The interest rate reduction coincides with an emerging consensus that inflation, widely seen in China as the paramount danger to the economy last summer and perhaps even a threat to social stability, no longer poses much of a challenge. While annual inflation at the consumer level peaked at 6.5 percent at the consumer level last July, it has decelerated so sharply since then as the economy has slowed that it reached just 3 percent in May; the consensus forecast of economists is that when the government announces on Monday the inflation rate for June, it will show just 2.3 percent.
That precipitous decline has made it much less attractive to own hedges against inflation, like real estate. At the same time, falling inflation has made it much less attractive to be heavily indebted, as inflation-adjusted interest rates are now several percentage points higher after many months of being negative.
Weak inflation tends to penalize state-owned enterprises and politically influential families, as they are the ones who tend to be able to borrow heavily in China, a country where personal connections still make a difference in obtaining large loans from the heavily state-owned banking sector.
Liu Li-gang, the chief economist for greater China at ANZ, the big Australian bank, said that policy makers might have another motive for cutting interest rates: making it less attractive for international investors to push money into China in pursuit of interest rates that remain higher than in the rest of the world. Inflows of capital make it harder for the Chinese government to prevent the country's currency from appreciating.
Rising exports are one of the Chinese economy's few strong points this spring. But surveys suggesting weak orders from overseas for the months ahead have prompted many business owners to worry about whether this success can be maintained.
Few economists worry that the Chinese economy will stay weak if the Chinese government decides to mount a sustained stimulus effort. In contrast with the West, much of the current slowdown in China is the result of the government's hitting the brakes too hard last year, through a national credit crunch engineered to slow inflation and a series of bans on real estate speculation to make housing more affordable.
Interest rate cuts are helping to alleviate the credit crunch. But the government has mostly maintained its restrictions on real estate speculation, although allowing at least a dozen local governments to tinker with some policies like interest-rate discounts for first-time home buyers.
''We still expect these measures to filter through to lift China's growth to around 8.5 percent in the coming quarters,'' said Qu Hongbin, the co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); COAL PRICES (71%); COAL MINING (69%); COAL MARKETS (69%); MINES & MINING (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); ENERGY DEMAND (64%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



194 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Hitting Road in Rust Belt, Offers Tough Talk on Jobs and Trade

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
SANDUSKY, Ohio -- President Obama, betting that the glimmers of a resurgence in the Rust Belt could lift him to victory in the fall, set off Thursday on a two-day bus tour of Ohio and Pennsylvania, promoting himself as a defender of American manufacturing jobs and taking aim at those he said could steal those jobs away.
One of the culprits, Mr. Obama said, is China. Speaking to a happy, if overheated, crowd outside Toledo, he announced that the United States would file a complaint with the World Trade Organization against China for duties imposed on American-made cars and trucks, including the Jeep Wrangler, which is built at an Ohio factory. 
''As long as we're competing on a fair playing field instead of an unfair playing field, we'll do just fine,'' Mr. Obama declared, standing before a red barn draped with bunting and a large American flag. ''But we're going to make sure competition is fair.''
It was a day of sweaty handshakes and fast-melting ice cream cones, as Mr. Obama's armored black bus snaked across northern Ohio, its hulking profile blurry in the shimmering heat waves. In one-on-one encounters at a farm market and a diner, and in a speech at an ice cream social, Mr. Obama sought to sharpen his message on the economy, etching the differences between him and his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney.
The tour gives Mr. Obama the chance to make an argument that however weak the job market is nationally, the outlook for battleground states like Ohio is brightening. With the release of another potentially poor employment number on Friday, that argument could allow him to weather the ebbs and flows of a fragile economy.
Mr. Obama has used the bailout of the auto industry as a calling card in the industrial Midwest, particularly in Ohio, and his announcement of trade action against China played to a constituency that is already favorably disposed to him. He reminded the audience, ''Governor Romney said we should just let Detroit go bankrupt.''
''Governor Romney's experience has been in owning companies that were called 'pioneers in outsourcing,' '' Mr. Obama said, referring to reports that firms controlled by Bain Capital moved jobs overseas. ''Our experience has been in saving the American auto industry. And as long as I'm president, that's what I'm going to be doing.''
Mr. Romney's campaign quickly fired back, saying that the president was engaging in ''false and discredited attacks in an attempt to distract voters from his failed economic record.'' With Mr. Romney vacationing for the week with his family in New Hampshire, the campaign dispatched two surrogates to Ohio, former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, to counter the president's message.
''Of course we should bet on America,'' said Mr. Pawlenty, a potential running mate for Mr. Romney, in a local radio interview. ''But we shouldn't double down on Barack Obama. His presidency has been a losing hand for Ohio.''
Ohio's unemployment rate was 7.3 percent in May while Pennsylvania's was 7.4, both lower than the national average of 8.2 percent. Political analysts caution that the national unemployment rate -- and the perception of the overall economy -- tends to drive the decisions of voters more than state-by-state statistics.
Still, the Midwest is benefiting from a modest recovery in manufacturing, the lack of a housing bubble that sapped the economy in other parts of the country, and the development of new industries like hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. In a recent statewide survey by Quinnipiac University, Mr. Obama was leading Mr. Romney in Ohio by 47 percent to 38 percent -- his largest lead, where earlier polls showed a close race.
Taking a tough line toward China on trade issues is a tried-and-true strategy during election years. The administration said this was the seventh such action it has taken against China -- including its 2009 move against China for dumping tires in the American market -- a pace that is double that of the Bush administration.
In his first foray outside Washington since the Supreme Court upheld his health care law last week, Mr. Obama also offered a robust defense of the law, saying that Americans did not want to refight the battles of two years ago.
''I'll work with anybody who wants to work with me to continue to improve our health care system and our health care laws,'' he said to cheers. ''But the law I passed is here to stay. It is going to make the vast majority of Americans more secure.''
After his speech here, Mr. Obama consoled a woman, Stephanie Miller, who told him that her sister died of cancer four years ago. The sister, Ms. Miller said later in a telephone interview, had not been able to afford health insurance, having been told that she earned too much to qualify for Medicaid.
The Obama campaign is calling this tour, which will wind from outside Toledo to near Cleveland and on Friday to Pittsburgh, the ''Betting on America'' tour. The president made time for stops at the Kozy Corners diner in Oak Harbor and the Bergman Orchards farm market near Lake Erie, where he bought peaches and a dozen ears of corn.
At the diner, Mr. Obama spent time talking to an emergency-room nurse, Kim Wein. ''Let me tell you, first of all, I love nurses,'' the president said to her. Getting money from Congress to pay for more nurses and emergency workers was part of Mr. Obama's $447 billion jobs bill.
The lunchtime crowd of 75 or so customers gave Mr. Obama a warm welcome as he sat down to a cheeseburger and fries. But one woman, Traci Riechman, said she was not sure it would translate to a winning margin for the president in November.
''We have a lot of houses for sale,'' said Ms. Riechman, who works for the Ottawa County Juvenile Court. ''It's just a tough time here in Oak Harbor. I don't know if the community will be positive or negative.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Oak Harbor, Ohio, on Thursday, President Obama visited the Kozy Corners diner. Mr. Obama reminded voters of his support for the auto industry bailout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%); TIM PAWLENTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



195 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: No Letup in the Health-Law Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
If the Obama administration does not clarify the details of the Affordable Care Act -- clearly, simply, graphically and chronologically, so that every American can understand them -- we risk losing the most important legislative achievement of President Obama's first term.
One key vulnerability of the legislation remains the continuing confusion about what it includes, what changes will occur when, and who is affected. As detractors' talk of repealing the legislation grows, there is no time to waste. 
One pamphlet, with a simple visual summary and timeline, would eradicate confusion and reassure millions of Americans with the indisputable facts, once and for all.
To see the Affordable Care Act repealed -- or to deprive it of the broad support it deserves -- simply because its contents were never plainly illustrated for every American would be a terrible shame, and a potentially irreversible blow to the future of health care in this country.
MICHAEL BALDWIN New York, July 3, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''Reluctance in Some States Over Medicaid Expansion'' (front page, June 30):
The now very real possibility that many states will reject the Medicaid expansion has costly implications for the nation's uninsured poor. Medicaid expansion is supposed to be our guarantor that millions of vulnerable patients won't be denied care for ability to pay.
Keeping patients uninsured increases total health care costs through their heavy reliance on acute episodic care (avoidable emergency room visits and hospital admissions). It also results in higher rates of missed diagnoses, preventable complications of disease, and, of course, poor quality of life.
Physicians and health care workers ought to make these ramifications clear to the public and to their state legislators. Only then will state leaders acknowledge the political costs in rejecting billions of federal dollars for the much needed expansion of public insurance.
AMIR MOHAREB Baltimore, July 1, 2012
The writer, a medical student, is a Maryland state leader of Doctors for America.
To the Editor:
In the wake of the Supreme Court decision establishing the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, many Republicans are focusing their opposition on states' rights. They argue that rather than a ''one size fits all'' national plan, each state should be able to choose a policy that suits its own conditions. Mitt Romney defends his having championed a similar law in Massachusetts when he was governor in similar terms.
Let's not forget an important reality: many states, even if their governors wanted to enact health care reform to provide insurance to 98 percent of the population, as Massachusetts did, cannot afford to do so. And not just because of the recent recession. Some states are much poorer than others. Moreover, those states also tend to have larger numbers of people without insurance and would need to spend more to provide coverage for them.
One result of a state-based health care reform plan, therefore, would be that some citizens would be denied coverage that similar residents of other states would have -- simply because of where they happened to live.
STEPHEN M. DAVIDSON Boston, July 2, 2012
The writer is a professor at the Boston University School of Management and the author of ''Still Broken: Understanding the U.S. Health Care System.''
To the Editor:
Richard A. Epstein, in ''A Confused Opinion'' (Op-Ed, June 29), bases his critique of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.'s opinion on the alleged inseparability of federal taxation and federal regulation. But the federal government routinely taxes things that it chooses not to regulate directly by law, and that the Supreme Court could possibly deem unconstitutional to so regulate, such as cigarettes and alcohol. Using taxation to discourage potentially harmful activity, instead of passing laws to forbid it, is a firmly established practice in America.
Whether you want to call these payments penalties or taxes is ultimately meaningless.
ALEXANDER DILLON New York, June 30, 2012
To the Editor:
Although I agree with your editorial decrying the heedless politicization of the Supreme Court by right-wing justices (''The Radical Supreme Court,'' July 1), your statement that the justices are not ''articulating a new social consensus'' is highly debatable. The excerpts from the Supreme Court hearing on the Affordable Care Act and Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.'s majority opinion make abundantly clear that the conservative justices believe they are upholding a new social consensus of the primacy of the marketplace in just about all facets of society.
Their obstinate refusal to concede that health care is a necessity and not a mere commodity like broccoli can only be rationally explained by the fact that such an admission would shatter the glass menagerie of their ideology. This is pathetic at best and dishonorable at worst.
Yet, before judging the justices, we must also consider that this ideology is arguably the prevailing social consensus, demonstrated by the high ratings of right-wing news media and the 2010 election results. Those of us who differ with this ideology can argue its merits, but its current pervasiveness is undeniable.
LARRY DEBLINGER Monroe, N.Y., July 1, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LIZ MEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WRITERS (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); APPEALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



196 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Off and Out With Mitt Romney

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In a better America, Mitt Romney would be running for president on the strength of his major achievement as governor of Massachusetts: a health reform that was identical in all important respects to the health reform enacted by President Obama. By the way, the Massachusetts reform is working pretty well and has overwhelming popular support.
In reality, however, Mr. Romney is doing no such thing, bitterly denouncing the Supreme Court for upholding the constitutionality of his own health care plan. His case for becoming president relies, instead, on his claim that, having been a successful businessman, he knows how to create jobs. 
This, in turn, means that however much the Romney campaign may wish otherwise, the nature of that business career is fair game. How did Mr. Romney make all that money? Was it in ways suggesting that what was good for Bain Capital, the private equity firm that made him rich, would also be good for America?
And the answer is no.
The truth is that even if Mr. Romney had been a classic captain of industry, a present-day Andrew Carnegie, his career wouldn't have prepared him to manage the economy. A country is not a company (despite globalization, America still sells 86 percent of what it makes to itself), and the tools of macroeconomic policy -- interest rates, tax rates, spending programs -- have no counterparts on a corporate organization chart. Did I mention that Herbert Hoover actually was a great businessman in the classic mold?
In any case, however, Mr. Romney wasn't that kind of businessman. Bain didn't build businesses; it bought and sold them. Sometimes its takeovers led to new hiring; often they led to layoffs, wage cuts and lost benefits. On some occasions, Bain made a profit even as its takeover target was driven out of business. None of this sounds like the kind of record that should reassure American workers looking for an economic savior.
And then there's the business about outsourcing.
Two weeks ago, The Washington Post reported that Bain had invested in companies whose specialty was helping other companies move jobs overseas. The Romney campaign went ballistic, demanding -- unsuccessfully -- that The Post retract the report on the basis of an unconvincing ''fact sheet'' consisting largely of executive testimonials.
What was more interesting was the campaign's insistence that The Post had misled readers by failing to distinguish between ''offshoring'' -- moving jobs abroad -- and ''outsourcing,'' which simply means having an external contractor perform services that could have been performed in-house.
Now, if the Romney campaign really believed in its own alleged free-market principles, it would have defended the right of corporations to do whatever maximizes their profits, even if that means shipping jobs overseas. Instead, however, the campaign effectively conceded that offshoring is bad but insisted that outsourcing is O.K. as long as the contractor is another American firm.
That is, however, a very dubious assertion.
Consider one of Mr. Romney's most famous remarks: ''Corporations are people, my friend.'' When the audience jeered, he elaborated: ''Everything corporations earn ultimately goes to people. Where do you think it goes? Whose pockets? Whose pockets? People's pockets.'' This is undoubtedly true, once you take into account the pockets of, say, partners at Bain Capital (who, I hasten to add, are, indeed, people). But one of the main points of outsourcing is to ensure that as little as possible of what corporations earn goes into the pockets of the people who actually work for those corporations.
Why, for example, do many large companies now outsource cleaning and security to outside contractors? Surely the answer is, in large part, that outside contractors can hire cheap labor that isn't represented by the union and can't participate in the company health and retirement plans. And, sure enough, recent academic research finds that outsourced janitors and guards receive substantially lower wages and worse benefits than their in-house counterparts.
Just to be clear, outsourcing is only one source of the huge disconnect between a tiny elite and ordinary American workers, a disconnect that has been growing for more than 30 years. And Bain, in turn, was only one player in the growth of outsourcing. So Mitt Romney didn't personally, single-handedly, destroy the middle-class society we used to have. He was, however, an enthusiastic and very well remunerated participant in the process of destruction; if Bain got involved with your company, one way or another, the odds were pretty good that even if your job survived you ended up with lower pay and diminished benefits.
In short, what was good for Bain Capital definitely wasn't good for America. And, as I said at the beginning, the Obama campaign has every right to point that out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); OFFSHORING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); JOB CREATION (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



197 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: In Defending His Health Care Plan, Romney Often Called Its Mandate a Tax

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ASHLEY PARKER; Reporting was contributed by John H. Cushman Jr. and Adam Liptak from Washington, Michael Barbaro from New York and Kitty Bennett from Florida.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Four months before Mitt Romney signed his health care plan into law in Massachusetts in 2006, he told a conservative group that the state's tax code would be the hammer that would make the plan work.
For those who refused to comply with the state's mandate to buy health insurance, he said in remarks to the Heritage Foundation, ''they are going to lose their personal tax exemption.'' 
''We will withhold any of their tax refund,'' he said.
As the Massachusetts governor and then as a presidential candidate, Mr. Romney spent the next six years describing in a variety of different ways the possible punishments for ignoring the Massachusetts mandate: as ''free-rider surcharges,'' ''tax penalties,'' ''tax incentives'' and sometimes just as ''penalties.''
But regardless of the terms he used, his intentions were clear: Massachusetts residents who chose not to buy health insurance would see their state income taxes go up.
Now, as he battles President Obama for the White House, Mr. Romney is asking voters to condemn his rival for a health insurance mandate that is nearly identical to the one he championed in Massachusetts. In allying himself after a delay of several days with much of the rest of the Republican Party in labeling Mr. Obama's mandate a tax, Mr. Romney reduced the chances that he would anger conservatives. But in effect he also asked voters to ignore his own record.
Both his plan and Mr. Obama's use the threat of higher taxes to motivate people to buy insurance. But Mr. Romney is seeking to draw a sharp distinction between the two, criticizing the president's approach with the same language that he once happily applied to his own achievement.
The political implications of Mr. Romney's record on health care intensified last week when the Supreme Court upheld the federal health insurance mandate on the grounds that it could be justified as an exercise of the Congressional power to levy taxes.
That decision handed conservatives a fresh opportunity to brand Mr. Obama as a president who raised Americans' taxes. Republican leaders in the House and Senate seized that opportunity with relish until Monday, when Eric Fehrnstrom, a top Romney aide, said that Mr. Romney, the party's presumptive presidential nominee, did not believe Mr. Obama's mandate was a tax.
The division between the national Republican leadership and Mr. Romney lasted just a few days. His advisers described the situation as untenable, and decided that the semantics game was not worth playing. It was confusing voters, they said, and it was distracting the campaign from its broader message that Mr. Romney would repeal Mr. Obama's health care plan.
As Mr. Romney prepared to march in the Fourth of July parade in Wolfeboro, N.H., where he owns a vacation home, on Wednesday, his aides anticipated that reporters would shout questions at him on the issue. They decided to have Mr. Romney describe the president's mandate as a tax in an interview with CBS News.
''The Supreme Court has the final word, and their final word is that 'Obamacare' is a tax, so it's a tax,'' Mr. Romney said in the interview, though he asserted that the court's opinion also supported the contention that his own mandate in Massachusetts was merely a ''penalty.''
The distinction is technically accurate. Without directly referring to Massachusetts, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote in the court's majority opinion that a governor could design a health care mandate under the authority that all states enjoy to carry out laws without resorting to a specific taxing authority. Broader ''police powers,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote, are reserved to the states, which ''do not need constitutional authorization to act.''
Mr. Romney's campaign did not respond to requests for comment. But whatever the legal justification, the law signed by Mr. Romney used the tax system to enforce the mandate, seizing on an idea that had become popular among conservative scholars at the time. In his later book, ''No Apology,'' Mr. Romney said taxes would provide the necessary incentive to persuade people to purchase health insurance.
Creating the right incentives, he wrote, ''can be done by reducing tax deductions for people who don't buy insurance -- as we did in Massachusetts -- or by giving tax credits to all those who do.''
After quoting a Harvard professor about the ''tax penalty'' in the Massachusetts plan, Mr. Romney wrote that ''the results have been remarkable,'' adding that ''despite the requirement that individuals buy insurance and that employers either provide coverage or pay a tax, the program has remained extremely popular.''
In a PowerPoint presentation that Mr. Romney used during his remarks to the Heritage Foundation, he wrote that ''other penalties are under consideration,'' but he made clear that the power behind his ''personal responsibility'' provisions -- his mandate -- was the tax code. ''If people go and get free care and don't pay for it, we go after them,'' Mr. Romney told the group.
The political risk for Mr. Romney in describing Mr. Obama's individual mandate as a tax is that it gives Democrats an opening to an attack that the Massachusetts mandate was also a tax.
Mr. Obama's campaign has already done just that. David Axelrod, the president's senior campaign adviser, said in an e-mail that the tax argument is ''a nightmare for Romney'' and his staff.
''For years, he was the world's biggest proponent of this very freeloader penalty to keep people from gaming the system by refusing health insurance and then sticking taxpayers with the tab,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''It is precisely what he did in Massachusetts. We modeled it after this plan. Now the 'super PACs' and his allies in Congress are going after this very provision, falsely depicting it as a broad-based tax on the middle class. And for Romney to acknowledge that lie is to condemn himself.''
But Mr. Romney's campaign is betting that current concerns among many voters about Mr. Obama's health care plan will overshadow any historical comparisons to a state plan that does not affect most Americans.
And they are expecting that the jobs report to be released on Friday will move the national discussion from health care to the economy, the issues on which Mr. Romney wants to focus the campaign.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann, with their grandchildren on Thursday on Lake Winnipesaukee in Wolfeboro, N.H., where the Romneys have a summer home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); INSURANCE LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (79%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); INCOME TAX (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); APPEALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



198 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Paradise for Climbers Is Inviting, but Off-Limits

BYLINE: By ALEX LOWTHER

 BODY:
VALLE DE VINALES, Cuba -- Here, the mountains weren't pushed up from underneath, as mountains usually are. In this national park and Unesco World Heritage site, everything but the mountains fell down. The mogotes, as the islands of karstic limestone are called, are gently domed, like loaves of crusty bread, but the sides seem to have been cleaved off, leaving terrain that drops precipitously to the valley floor.
In the late 1990s, rock climbers found a paradise where the walls of the mogotes are too steep for the otherwise ubiquitous crawling vines and striving trees. Huge overhangs, some 500 feet tall, are covered with chandeliers of stalactites and intermittent blobs and pockets, all perfectly formed for human hands and feet to climb from the bottom of a cliff to its top.
Soon, local residents caught on, and a flourishing climbing scene took hold. Vinales became a top destination for climbers from Europe, Canada and the United States. Hundreds of routes went up the major mountain faces in the valley, and for years visiting climbers had essentially free rein. 
No longer.
In late March, even as Pope Benedict XVI called for ''authentic freedom'' in Cuba before an estimated 200,000 people in Havana, climbers here, a three-hour drive west of the capital, were wrestling with the prohibition of their sport. In an era when the Cuban government has been easing restrictions -- allowing private boardinghouses, private restaurants and now the sale of real estate and automobiles -- it seems to have moved in a sharply different direction here, threatening the prosperity of Vinales and the future of the sport in Cuba by enforcing a ban on climbing and regulating independent tourism in general.
In March, out in the welcome cool of nighttime, under the fluorescent lights of a plaza-side bar and over rum-laced national cola, the conversation among climbers centered on the guards who have been enforcing the prohibition since early in the year. Where had they been that day? Did anybody get busted climbing? What happened? And then, ''Why are they there at all?''
Jens Franzke, a climber from Dresden, Germany, here with his wife, Ina, for three weeks, was fed up. ''It feels like East Germany before the fall of the Berlin Wall,'' he said. ''There are all these rules, and none of them make any sense. There are no signs. No detailed maps at all. You ask if you can go somewhere and do something by yourself and they say, 'No, it's impossible.' ''
During their trip, Franzke, 46, and his wife had been forced to stop climbing multiple times, threatened with police action by park guards and told that the ''Cuba Climbing'' guidebook they were using to find routes in the valley was illegal to use because the authors do not live in Cuba.
''It's a real shame because it's such a paradise,'' Franzke said. The couple managed to climb nearly every day they wished by evading the rules and the guards, but ''we will never come back,'' he said.
This is the main worry for residents and climbers. Vinales is the hub of the valley and the heart of Vinales National Park. The bustling town of about 17,000 has more than 300 private boardinghouses that rent rooms to tourists who hike, explore the cliffs, ride horses, watch birds and climb in the national park. All that has allowed the valley to overcome the poverty typical across the country.
Armando Menocal, one of the ''Cuba Climbing'' guidebook authors and an expert on the region, said, ''Tourism has created a strong, vibrant economy, and it's all based on outdoor recreation.'' The crackdown, if it continues, ''could be devastating to tourism and climbing in Vinales.'' Cuban climbers rely on tourists to donate shoes, harnesses and ropes to climb. Equipment is not available, and even if it was the cost would be prohibitive in a country where government salaries average $15 to $25 a month. Without new donations, shoes, harnesses and ropes wear out. Without replacement, the bolts in the rock that secure climbers would corrode and eventually become unsafe. Climbing on the mogotes would become, essentially, impossible.
Climbing was pronounced unauthorized and thus prohibited in 2003, four years after major climbing development started. The state deemed climbing a factor in peligrosidad, a vague designation of being dangerous to the state. It is an offense punishable by imprisonment.
The climbing ban was never formally announced, nor was it enforced for tourists at all. For Cubans it was often a mere hassle, but consequences could be more severe. One veteran Cuban climber was put on notice of being considered peligroso in 2010, and several others were taken to the police station and had reports drawn up. This seems to have been more likely if the climbers were climbing and socializing with foreigners, which the state frowns upon.
When questioned by a Cuban climber, one official's explanation for the disparity in enforcement between Cubans and tourists, according to Menocal, was: ''The tourists eat ham and cheese. You and I don't.''
In January, state agents called a meeting reaffirming the climbing ban. Climbers figured it was just more words, but suddenly guards were patrolling the perimeter trails of the park, turning climbers back.
In March, one guard, a congenial man in a green button-down shirt, said: ''We don't like to say climbing is prohibited. Climbing isn't prohibited, because prohibited is an ugly word.''
But may one climb?
''No,'' he said.
He said the government was busy organizing a system through which one would buy a daily pass or license to climb. A version of this explanation has been circulating since at least 2003. No such pass yet exists.
Some suspect that state security is the reason for the crackdown. Many of the cliffs where climbing takes place are part of the national defense plan in case of attack, and climbers say they believe that state security officials are worried that the Cubans and foreigners are there organizing against the government.
Official explanations say Cubans do not support a so-called extreme sport. They are worried about serious injury, and officials have said an ambulance would always have to be parked near the base of the most popular cliff in case somebody is hurt. But there is no money for that.
It is possible, too, that the government has no interest in a sport that has no chance at international glory in the Olympics -- at which the Cuban team tends to punch far above its weight.
Owners of casas particulares, as the private boardinghouses are called, said warnings about the rules were overblown. Oscar Jaime Rodriguez, owner of a boardinghouse that is the de facto base camp for climbers in the valley, sought to quiet fears. ''They are always saying, 'It's prohibited, it's prohibited,' but climbers still come and they still climb,'' he said. ''It's worth it.''
Menocal said that the Cubans were ''hoping it blows over.''
He added: ''It could blow over. Who knows? You don't know the source of this. You don't know what's going on. You live in this world of ambiguity all the time.'' (In fact, since reporting there concluded at the end of March, climbers have said enforcement of the no climbing rule may have become more lenient.)
Despite the possibility of consequences, Cubans keep climbing. They duck guards. They hitchhike and walk hours to arrive at sectors where guards do not patrol. One night, over more rum at the bar next to the plaza, Cuban climbers regaled visitors with stories of a steep, clean wall of difficult routes where ''there won't be anybody but us and the birds.''
The trip there was a slow 40-minute taxi ride. The driver wove around car-swallowing holes and enormous, belching Soviet trucks whose deep beds double as public transportation.
The wall was exactly as the Cuban climbers had described. All was silence but for the birds and the occasional iguana plunging from one perch on a high tree branch to the next. It was a sunny, stress-free outing.
The next day the climbers walked and hitchhiked back to Vinales. The trip, under full sun, took three hours.
''It's worth it,'' one Cuban climber who preferred to be called Dani said. ''No matter how strict the rules get, I'll keep climbing. If the tourists stop coming and we don't have any gear, I'll go bouldering in my bare feet. I don't care.''
It is a bit of reassurance for him that tourists continue to climb most days, too. They kill mornings waiting for the guards to quit, usually around 2 p.m. They get to the cliffs before the guards are on duty, around 9 a.m. They climb on cliffs the guards do not frequent and wear dull colors to blend in with the rock. On Sundays the guards don't work at all.
Still, climbing can be a tense experience.
On the main walls near Vinales, the farms run hard up on the base of the cliffs. Farmers plow red soil behind oxen to prepare for planting the world's finest tobacco, and chickens scratch in the underbrush. It is beautiful, but when climbing, every motion or sound becomes a guard approaching to end the day of adventure. ''It's stressful,'' said Cofi Jones, a Canadian climber. After three weeks, she said, she was tired of it and leaving. ''I'm over it,'' she said. ''I'm over waiting until the guards go home to climb. I'm over the guards. It doesn't feel good to be here doing something that's prohibited.''
Would-be Cuban climbers feel the same way. A climber who preferred to be called Nague said the number of avid Cuban climbers was probably around a dozen. ''You have no idea how many young Cubans want to climb,'' he said, ''but they won't, because they're afraid of the police.''
On their last day in Cuba, after an unmolested climbing session in warm early morning sun and a ''coco loco'' cocktail in the shade, the Franzkes, the German climbers, reconsidered their vow never to return.
''Maybe all of the not so good stuff about Cuba will leave my memory,'' Jens Franzke said. ''I'll just remember the beautiful people, the red soil, the salsa.''
He looked at the drink in his hand, smiled and said, ''The coco loco.'' He craned his neck in the direction of the mogotes, and added, ''And the spectacular climbing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jens Franzke in Valle de Vinales, where climbing has been unauthorized since 2003. Tourists have worked around the ban. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX LOWTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Valle de Vinales is a three hour drive from Havana. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMBING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (50%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CUBA (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2012



199 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Slap Shot)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; hockey

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: What's Next, N.H.L. Bidders? A 20-Year Contract?

BYLINE: LYNN ZINSER


HIGHLIGHT: Many N.H.L. franchises contend they are financially strapped, but expensive long-term contracts seem more prevalent than ever. 

 BODY:
Just as the N.H.L. takes its turn in the line of lockout-mania, following the N.F.L. and N.B.A. to that well-worn labor dispute podium to howl that it needs economic relief from the players union, it prepared for this fight by doing what it does best. That is, throw gigantic and ridiculously long contracts at available free agents. 
Yes, N.H.L. franchises are in dire financial straits, they will tell you, because of huge, onerous player contracts like the ones Minnesota just showered on Zach Parise and Ryan Suter. This is why the owners want a new collective bargaining agreement. 
The Wild was not formerly a player in most discussions involving 13-year, $98 million contracts, but they now have twin ones. Only a few months ago, the Wild owner Craig Leopoldtold The Minneapolis Star-Tribune: "We're not making money, and that's one reason we need to fix our system. We need to fix how much we're spending right now."
By "fix," we are assuming at the time Leopold did not mean he wanted to spend more. But that's exactly what he did. That's because the N.H.L. has gotten itself into an absurd contract rat race of its own making. It gets around the restrictions of the salary cap by stretching contracts over an absurd number of years. The next crop of superstars might be getting paid into their 50s.
Greg Wyshynski writes on Yahoo.com that there are 17 players with contracts spanning nine years or longer. Sidney Crosby just signed one of those with the Penguins and the Kings just lavished one on goalie Jonathan Quick. 
While those might be understandable -- when healthy, Crosby is the game's best player and Quick just snared the Kings a Stanley Cup -- they are still incredibly risky. Crosby's concussion history should make any team nervous about the long term. And as good as Quick may be, people were that high on Roberto Luongo once, and his 12-year contract signed in 2010 with Vancouver is an unbearable albatross now that it has soured on him. The team would love to trade him and hand the job to Cory Schneider, but Luongo's contract makes it nearly impossible. 
So more teams have now burdened themselves with immovable assets, which are lovely when they are all bright and shiny like Parise and Suter and turn into handcuffs when things turn bad. Clearly, no one learned anything from the first of these mammoth deals to go bad, the 15-year-deal the Islanders signed in 2006 with goalie Rick DiPietro, who almost instantly turned into an injury-riddled mess. 
Two years ago, when the N.H.L. pitched a mini-fit over Ilya Kovalchuk's beyond-absurd 17-year deal with the Devils -- the franchise was fined and forced to re-work it -- it seemed like the league was trying to curb the trend, which is clearly designed to circumvent the salary cap by stretching the cap hits over a longer span. But the mini-fit ended there. And the contracts just kept growing.
Remember that the next time owners like Leopold demand economic relief from the "system." They are asking for economic relief from their own crazy decisions.

        
Be Prepared for an Extra-Long Off-Season in the N.H.L.
        
Metro Pucks: Ranking the Top Offensive Forwards Among the Rangers, Islanders and Devils
        
Monday Morning Skate: Ryan's Stick Improv, Dead Teams Walking
        
Back in Devils' Fold, Brodeur Hopes Parise Will Stay, Too
        
How to Sound Like an Expert While Watching the Finals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); SPORTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); BRAIN INJURIES (61%) Ilya Kovalchuk; Minnesota Wild; Rick DiPietro; ryan suter; Zach Parise; Crosby, Sidney; Dipietro, Rick; Kovalchuk, Ilya; Parise, Zach; Quick, Jonathan; Hockey, Ice; National Hockey League

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); MINNESOTA WILD (93%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%) Minnesota Wild; National Hockey League

PERSON: Crosby, Sidney; Dipietro, Rick; Kovalchuk, Ilya; Parise, Zach; Quick, Jonathan

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (72%) MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2012



200 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2012

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Yo-Yo Ma on the Magic of Tanglewood and the Berkshires

BYLINE: MARK VANHOENACKER


HIGHLIGHT: Yo-Yo Ma shares his perspective on Tanglewood and the Berkshires. 

 BODY:
The Grammy Award-winning cellist Yo-Yo Ma is perhaps the best-known classical musician of our age. He will perform at Tanglewood on July 14 at the festival's 75th anniversary concert and takes the stage again on Aug. 18, for an 80th birthday tribute to the composer and conductor John Williams. Below are excerpts of a conversation on the festival and on the Berkshires, where it takes place.
When I was 27, Seiji Ozawa invited me up to do some teaching and coaching at the Tanglewood Music Center. I was young, and a young father. To work with those students, not much younger than myself, starting out in their musical careers, on these beautiful grounds -- I fell in love with the place. That first summer is one of the greatest gifts I've ever received.
The Berkshires are extraordinary. They're magical -- the classic New England villages, but particularly the mountains. When you're in a coastal area, there's always this issue, a status issue, about how close anything or anyone is to the beach. One of the things I love most about mountains is how democratic they are. Everyone gets a view.
The magic of the spot -- the interplay between music and nature -- is not replicable. An orchestra is usually within four walls. Here they've taken down the walls, and blended in the human sound of the music with what composers try to take from nature in the first place. You're inside, you're outside. You're back at the primary source.
We do both! We often sit in the hall, particularly if friends are performing. But lawn picnics have their advantages. A Saturday night picnic on the lawn -- if you've never been before, that's probably the essential Tanglewood experience. There's nothing quite like being under stars as the music floats over you. Don't forget a blanket.
Regarding those lawn tickets, the Boston Symphony and its donors have done great work in keeping the prices so reasonable. I'd also encourage visitors to experience the free midweek concerts by the Music Center students, and the open rehearsals. It's a great way to become a part of the musical community.
It's a question of time. You can have serious conversations with anybody here, because people will simply give you the time. It's a kind of humanity, a kind of depth. In the hustle and bustle of intense urban life, I often encounter people who say they don't have time to think. Here, there's the space, and people make the time.
It carries over into standards, too. When you talk to a craftsman here, a cabinet maker, a chef, whomever, when you see their work, I often find far higher personal standards than in large cities. The Berkshires attract people who want to practice their art, their passion. That's true of Tanglewood, and it's true of the region.
Shakespeare & Company, and the restored Ventfort Hall [in Lenox] are wonderful. But with all the classical music and old homes and old paintings in the county, it's worth remembering how much new work is being created here. Nancy Fitzpatrick, of the Red Lion Inn in Stockbridge, is doing great work bringing singer-songwriters to the Lion's Den [the hotel's pub].
There's more and more going on year-round now. The Colonial Theater [in Pittsfield] and the Mahaiwe [in Great Barrington] are gems. Just open up The Berkshire Eagle
The cooperative, collaborative, innovative nature of the Berkshires is something America could learn from -- indeed, needs to learn from. Creative economies -- that's the future of the country, if we're lucky.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); NEW ISSUES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); COASTAL AREAS (67%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%) Ma, Yo-Yo; Music; Tanglewood Music Festival (Lenox, Mass); Travel and Vacations; Tanglewood Music Center; Berkshires (Mass)

ORGANIZATION: Tanglewood Music Center

PERSON: Ma, Yo-Yo

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%) Berkshires (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012

 
