

401 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Picks Experience and Age for Cabinet

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, April 10

 BODY:
Choosing experience over youth, Brazil's President has completed a thorough Cabinet shake-up intended to give new momentum to his troubled two-year-old Government.
Jettisoning his inaugural dictums that no minister should be over 40 years old and that no minister should have served in previous governments, President Fernando Collor de Mello on Friday chose a Cabinet of seasoned administrators and conservative politicians with party support in Congress. 
 "They Don't Use Jet Skis," Veja magazine said in a headline, referring to Mr. Collor's first phase of government, which was marked by athletic feats by officials.
While his first Cabinet largely included technocrats in their 30's, Mr. Collor's new Cabinet is composed almost entirely of men over 50. Four of the 11 civilian ministers served as ministers in military governments in the 1970's, and half of the Cabinet belonged to Arena, the political party that supported the military.
"Of Brazilian conservatives, they are the best on the market," said Alexandre de Barros, a frequent critic of the Government. "Collor is finally putting in place people who correspond to a serious conservative government."
Several new ministers come with important endorsements from their party blocs in Congress. Mr. Collor's party controls only 5 percent of seats in Congress, and his public approval rating in February was only 15 percent.
Some analysts contrasted moves made by Mr. Collor with steps taken this week by President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru, who closed Congress and arrested political opponents.
"The difference between Peru and Brazil is that Fujimori never made the effort that Collor has made," Alfred Stepan, a Columbia University political scientist, said in a telephone interview from Brasilia. "Collor understands that his Government and his future need a broad party base."
For 10 days, Mr. Collor fruitlessly negotiated an alliance with Brazil's dominant center-left party, the Brazilian Social Democratic Party. But party leaders, afraid of hurting their chances in municipal elections this fall, declined to join the Government.
 
Brazil 'at a Crossroads'
 But two party members of international reknown accepted posts. Celso Lafer, a Cornell-trained political scientist, is to be sworn in Monday as Foreign Minister. Helio Jaguaribe, a prominent sociologist, becomes Secretary of Science and Technology.
"Brazil is at a crossroads," Mr. Jaguaribe said at a Brasilia news conference when asked why he had joined a conservative Government. "Either we get out of the swamp of underdevelopment and backwardness, or we will confront a social convulsion of dimensions difficult to calculate."
Reflecting the generational change, Eliezer Batista, a 67-year-old former President of Brazil's largest mining company, has become Secretary for Strategic Affairs, replacing a 31-year-old technocrat linked in press reports to an influence-peddling scandal.
With Brazil's economy slowly improving, Marcilio Marques Moreira remains Economy Minister.
In February and March, inflation fell to a monthly plateau of 22 percent. After initial protests, Brazil's left now accepts privatization of deficit-ridden state companies. And Brazil is expected to reach a deal with foreign creditor banks over renegotiation of its $49 billion commercial debt.
"Brazil is looking a lot better in April than in last October," said Mr. Stepan, who has studied this nation over the last 25 years. "Inflation has flattened out, and you have a much more predictable presidency."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); PERU (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT LLC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL BRAZIL (99%); PERU (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO (PRES) FERNANDO COLLOR DE MELLO (92%); HELIO JAGUARIBE (55%); ALBERTO K FUJIMORI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



402 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Response to Youth and AIDS Is Criticized

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
A House committee expressed alarm today at the spread of AIDS among adolescents and condemned the Federal Government's response as "a national disgrace."
The panel, the House Select Committee on Children, Youth and Families, concluded that Federal efforts were "underfunded, uncoordinated and largely unsuccessful" in prevents AIDS among teen-agers. 
 The committee said Federal prevention efforts were hampered by moralistic restrictions against explicit or specific information about high-risk sexual practices and the effective use of condoms.
"Denial of the problem at the Federal level, where leadership should be paramount, is a national disgrace," the committee said.
"Few Federal resources are dedicated to research or data collection that involve adolescents and their health care providers," the committee said. "Prevention efforts to curb risk-taking behavior among youth are sketchy. And use of explicit information about preventing H.I.V. infection is often discouraged or even prohibited."
Eight of 14 Republicans on the panel took issue with the findings, saying AIDS among teen-agers is primarily "a behavioral problem" rather than a health problem.
In a dissenting report, they said sexual abstinence and strengthening the family, not more Federal Government programs, were the answer.
"Safe sex for teen-agers today is clearly not using condoms but in using self-restraint -- abstinence," the Republicans said. "The fact that some teens engage in unhealthy behavior should not discourage us as a society from promoting moral conduct."
The panel, led by Representative Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, described its report as the first comprehensive report on AIDS among teen-agers.
The frequency of exposure to H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, among adolescents is not known, the panel found. But the number of teen-agers who have AIDS has increased by more than 70 percent in the past two years.
AIDS is the sixth-leading cause of death among people 15 to 24 years old.
Among teen-agers, there were 401 reported cases of AIDS in 1989, while in 1991 there were 789 cases, the panel said, citing information provided by the Federal Centers for Disease Control. Among those 13 to 24 years old, cases increased to 8,949 from 5,524 in the same period. Those figures do not reflect the number of people with H.I.V. who have not developed AIDS.
The panel said that while the number of cases among teen-agers was relatively small, nearly one-fifth of all AIDS cases in the United States occur among people in their 20's. Because the incubation period from infection with H.I.V. to diagnosis of AIDS can be eight to 10 years, many may have been infected as teen-agers.
 
Avoiding Discussion
 The report said the disease centers requirements for basic educational materials were overly restrictive and avoided discussion of homosexuality and specific behavior that was risky. It said new public service announcements by the disease centers failed to mention either condoms or sex.
The report also found:
*Less than 5 percent of the Federal AIDS budget, excluding Medicaid, goes for research, programs or services that benefit teen-agers.
*By age 20, 68 percent of females and 86 percent of males are sexually active. Among sexually experienced youths 18 and 19 years old, nearly 25 percent of females and 20 percent of males report having six or more partners. Only half reported using condoms.
*AIDS among teen-agers "is spreading unchecked" regardless of geography or economic status. Blacks represent 37 percent and Hispanics 19 percent of reported AIDS cases among teen-agers.
*There is no coordinated Government effort targeting teen-agers.
Signing the minority dissent were Frank R. Wolf of Virginia, Clyde C. Holloway of Louisiana, Lamar Smith of Texas, James T. Walsh of New York, Bob McEwen of Ohio, Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Dave Camp of Michigan and Bill Barrett of Nebraska.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); TEENAGERS; CONDOMS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; FEDERAL AID (US) AIDS & HIV (95%); ADOLESCENTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); AIDS & HIV REPORTING (78%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (73%); DISEASE REPORTING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (69%); VIRUSES (69%); HEALTH CARE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



403 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3166 words

HEADLINE: Paths of Patient and His Therapist Cross on Dark Journey Leading to Death

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD with SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 11

 BODY:
He was a brilliant child who taught himself to read by the time he was 4 years old and was so strong-willed that as a pre-schooler he refused to take a dose of aspirin until he read the instructions on the bottle himself.
But at the Harvard Medical School, Paul Lozano, the son of Mexican-American immigrants, became lonely and depressed. He sought help from a distinguished psychiatrist on Harvard's clinical staff, Dr. Margaret Bean-Bayog. Then began an agonizing downward spiral in which Mr. Lozano was repeatedly hospitalized, and in which Dr. Bean-Bayog used therapy that she herself has described as "somewhat unconventional" to depict herself as his mother. 
 He later told family members and other doctors of a bizarre sexual relationship with Dr. Bean-Bayog. And a year ago this month, after she had terminated his therapy, he committed suicide at the age of 28.
When his family found his body on April 2, 1991, they could tell he had showered and sprayed himself with Calvin Klein cologne. He was sitting at his desk with his medical books open. He had injected himself with a lethal dose of cocaine.
 
Rare Glimpse Is Offered
 Much is still unknown about Paul Lozano's brilliant rise and sad fall, now the subject of a lawsuit by his family alleging malpractice and wrongful death, and an inquiry by Massachusetts' State Board of Registration in Medicine. But his case has drawn attention far beyond Harvard and the arcane world of psychiatric regulation.
For all its mystery, it offers a rare look into the normally private relationship between therapist and patient, through 3,000 pages of notes and documents that are now available in court records. Besides Mr. Lozano's hospital records and Dr. Bean-Bayog's treatment notes, they include sexual fantasies of Dr. Bean-Bayog, written in her own hand, and flash cards she prepared for him, with sentiments like "I'm going to miss so many things about you, the closeness and the need and the phenomenal sex."
The story raises questions not only about what happened between Mr. Lozano and Dr. Bean-Bayog, but about how the regulatory bureaucracy and psychotherapists should respond to allegations of improper treatment.
Whatever the truth, Mr. Lozano's case comes at a time when medical authorities have been under criticism for reacting slowly to a rising number of complaints about psychotherapists' having sexual relations with their patients, though the complaints have usually involved male therapists. Kenneth S. Pope, a psychologist in Los Angeles who has written a book about the issue, estimates that 7 to 12 percent of male therapists have sex with their patients, compared to 2.5 to 3 percent of female therapists.
 
Another Psychiatrist's Views
 In Mr. Lozano's case, another psychiatrist who treated him in the fall of 1990, Dr. William Barry Gault, complained to the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine soon after learning about Mr. Lozano's allegations against Dr. Bean-Bayog.
But the board lost the letter. And even after being given a file of documents about the case in March 1991 by a lawyer for the Lozano family, the board did not begin a serious investigation until this month, following press accounts about the lawsuit. One of the many questions about this case is whether quicker action by the board might have saved a life.
 
The Patient
A Happy Child, A Brilliant Mind
 By all accounts, Mr. Lozano had a happy childhood, and a large, loving family. He was born in 1962 in Upper Sandusky, Ohio, a town of 5,900 people, the youngest child of a construction contractor.
The family knew he was exceptional by the time he was 4 years old, says an older sister, Pilar Williams. At 5 he tried to order a Mercedes-Benz by mail. He challenged his teachers; he once refused to attend a chemistry course he believed was being wrongly taught, returning only to take the final exam and receive a top grade.
On the basis of their therapy sessions, Dr. Bean-Bayog said she believed that Mr. Lozano was sexually and physically abused as a child. But Dr. Thomas Watkins, the family's pediatrician, said he saw no signs of child abuse or emotional problems. Paul Lozano was "a happy, friendly, well-adjusted young man," said Dr. Watkins. 
 
'Love and Care'
 One of the Lozanos' close friends for many years was Bethny Foltz, the Children's Service Supervisor for Wyandot County, Ohio. "It was obvious there was a lot of love and care in their family," Mrs. Foltz said. There were no signs of abuse, she said, nor any indication that his mother suffered from severe mental depression, as he later told Dr. Bean-Bayog.
Mr. Lozano also told Dr. Bean-Bayog that he tried to kill himself twice as a boy, but no family member or friend recalls such episodes.
At high school in Upper Sandusky, Mr. Lozano earned all A's and was such a brilliant student, said Charlotte Leeth, his English teacher, that he once wrote an essay on philosophy that won a statewide contest, although the school offered no course in philosophy.
After Mr. Lozano's junior year, the family moved to Texas because of the downturn in Ohio's economy. Still, he seemed to adjust. At Coronado High School in El Paso, he became close friends with Armando R. Castellanos.
 
A Pair of 'Nerds'
 "We stuck to our books a lot," Mr. Castellanos said in a telephone interview from Ouijongbu, South Korea, where he is now an Army captain. "We were your nerds." Mr. Castellanos said he saw no signs of depression in his friend.
Both students were recruited by the United States Military Academy. Mr. Castellanos said they had a hard time with the discipline of West Point and accumulated some demerits, though Mr. Lozano had fewer than he did. For the first time, Mr. Lozano got mediocre grades, a transcript shows.
Then early in his second year, Mr. Lozano dropped out of West Point because he decided he wanted to be a doctor, his friend said. If he had stayed at West Point, he would have had to serve nine years in the military after becoming a doctor.
Mr. Lozano entered the University of Texas at El Paso, where he got back on track, earning all A's and graduating with honors in microbiology. His chemistry professor, Jim Becvar, recalled him as being "very quiet and a very good student."
 
A Puzzling Relationship
 But in the chemistry lab a relationship began that raises a hint of mystery about Mr. Lozano. He met a fellow pre-med student, Evelyn Susan Burlingham, and -- to the surprise of his family and his professor -- married her just before graduation. The marriage was soon annulled.
Mr. Lozano later told Dr. Bean-Bayog and others in Boston that his family had forced him to annul the marriage, and that he was very angry about it, her treatment notes show. But his sister says the marriage was a ruse to try to help his new wife get into Harvard Medical School, and that when she was turned down, they called the union off.
 
The Therapist
Personal Troubles Despite Acclaim
 Dr. Bean-Bayog's reputation is so exemplary that many friends are convinced she is being framed by the Lozanos and press accounts. Dr. Edward J. Khantzian, an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at Harvard who has worked with her for 20 years, said, "She has as fine a reputation as a professional can have."
Dr. Bayog grew up in Iowa City, where her father was chairman of the department of internal medicine at the University of Iowa. She went to Radcliffe College, where, she wrote in a report for her 25th reunion, she did not expect to be a happy woman.
She was not happy, she wrote, until she discovered psychiatry." It gave her "access to a personal psychoanalysis which transformed my inner and outer opportunities," and enabled her "to change myself so I could, finally, to my family's surprise and relief, marry."
In 1984 she wed Dr. Rogilio D. Bayog, a Filipino-born psychoanalyst whose wife had died of leukemia. Since 1982, she has been an assistant clinical professor at Harvard Medical School.
As with Mr. Lozano, there is an episode in her life that raises an unanswered question. Court records show she was convicted of drunken driving in June 1984 and placed on two years' probation. Herself an expert on treating alcoholics, she had to attend an alcohol-rehabilitation program.
Mr. Lozano first consulted Dr. Bean-Bayog in September 1984, shortly after arriving at Harvard Medical School. According to her notes, now available in court, he had seen her lecture and came to her "worried about his college heavy drinking." But there is no evidence from friends or family members that he ever drank heavily.
But he was depressed, Dr. Bean-Bayog wrote. She recorded him saying, "Don't like being here." Mr. Lozano also confided that his "girlfriend" had not been accepted at Harvard, that they had "split up" because his family did not approve of her.
Mr. Lozano did not go to see Dr. Bean-Bayog again until July 3, 1986.
In a series of weekly sessions, Mr. Lozano spoke about his depression and suicidal thoughts. "School is fine, but quite sad," she recorded him saying.
Mr. Lozano confessed that he had a "bad habit" of liking stuffed animals and had "a cute little dog," her notes show. That made it hard for him to work in a laboratory that summer where experiments were done on beagles, who were later put to death.
In September 1986, Dr. Bean-Bayog's notes show, Mr. Lozano said he had gone up to the 13th floor of the Harvard School of Public Health, where he had opened a window and "calculated the length of time to hit the ground."
Finally, her notes show, on Sept. 24, 1986, he said, "Wish I was dead right now." Dr. Bean-Bayog had Mr. Lozano admitted to McLean Hospital in suburban Belmont, Mass.
There, Mr. Lozano's trouble was diagnosed as depression and he was treated with drugs. He seemed to be doing so well that Dr. Bean-Bayog wrote to the Harvard Medical School, "Fortunately his disorder has responded beautifully to treatment and he is mending rapidly."
He was discharged in November 1986 and went back to his classes.
At this time, Dr. Bean-Bayog also began to see Mr. Lozano more often, three or four times a week, to find the roots of his depression, her notes say. "I have never had a patient work so hard and fast in treatment," she wrote.
 
Devising a Therapy
 It was during this time, in late 1986 and early 1987, that Dr. Bean-Bayog devised her "unique" therapy, playing the role of a "nonabusive mom" to "help calm him down when he was out of control," as she told the medical board earlier this month.
She wrote out flash cards, with sentiments like: "I'm your mom and I love you and you love me very, very much. Say that 10 times." She later told the medical board that these sentiments "principally were dictated" by him.
Apparently during the same period, Dr. Bean-Bayog wrote 55 pages of graphic sexual and sadomasochistic fantasies, which somehow ended up in his apartment. She insists they were private notes, and that Mr. Lozano broke into her office and stole them.
Several therapists in Boston questioned why, presuming her account was true, she would leave them in her office at all, risking their discovery by a patient. But her supporters said it was good practice for a therapist to write down such fantasies as a way to guard against acting on her feelings.
In some places she seems to refer to the childhood abuse she believed Mr. Lozano had suffered. "I am in a heap, sweating and disheveled, and so sad I can't feel any boundaries to it," she wrote in one fantasy. "So this is what they did to you." She added that she was "sad, terribly sad, for the baby, the boy, the 8-year-old boy."
In early 1987 Mr. Lozano became depressed again; Dr. Bean-Bayog's treatment notes say this was partly because he stopped taking his medication. That May, when he threatened to jump off a building once more, she had him recommitted to McLean Hospital.
During this stay Dr. Bean-Bayog took him several articles about childhood sexual abuse and asked him to read them and tell her his reaction. "Might explain something, how I could never get close to someone," she recorded him as saying.
But it was also during this stay that a psychiatrist, Dr. Frances Frankenburg, raised doubts about Mr. Lozano's veracity. After meeting with Mr. Lozano's mother and sister and watching them interact with him, Dr. Frankenburg wrote that staff members had long talks with him about whether "he was merely a liar."
Dr. Frankenburg also warned Dr. Bean-Bayog that Mr. Lozano might have "conned" her, Dr. Bean-Bayog acknowledged in her notes. Moreover, she said Dr. Frankenburg was "concerned I was overinvolved, inappropriate and dangerous to the patient."
After his discharge in June 1987, Mr. Lozano apparently did better, and while continuing to see Dr. Bean-Bayog several times a week, he managed to keep up with his medical school work, although at the suggestion of his advisers he switched into a Ph.D. program in cell biology. This meant he spent more time in laboratories and less dealing with patients.
But in November 1989 Mr. Lozano began to be tormented again, her notes reflect. His anxiety was touched off when Dr. Bean-Bayog told him she could no longer afford to see him three or four times a week. He had been paying only a fraction of her bill.
In January 1990, she told him that she planned to adopt a baby and would take a maternity leave, according to one of her notes.
Around the same time, according to a close associate of hers who is familiar with the case, Dr. Bean-Bayog also began to demand that Mr. Lozano join a drug-abuse program.
In March 1990, she suspected that he had stolen a hallucinogenic drug from a Harvard hospital, and that it had made him temporarily psychotic, according to her notes. She called the police and had him admitted to the Faulkner Hospital in Boston.
 
More and More Worried
 By now, he was worried that she planned to terminate him. According to her notes, he asked her, "Do you know what it is like to hate your mother?"
Mr. Lozano was discharged from Faulkner after a month, but a few weeks later Dr. Bean-Bayog had him admitted again. She made some plans to find another therapist for him and then terminated him as a patient in June 1909, while he was still in Faulkner. His family has charged that she dropped him too abruptly, when he was very ill and was in a hospital, both often considered ethical violations.
"Is this the last time I'll ever see you?" he asked, according to her notes. "What should I do with all the stuff you gave me?"
 
The Tragedy
Two Certainties: Death and Grief
 For years, Mrs. Williams, now a 38-year-old critical care nurse in El Paso, had wondered about her younger brother's sudden decline. But neither Dr. Bean-Bayog nor the hospitals where she had had him admitted offered any explanation, Mrs. Williams said. In fact, Dr. Bean-Bayog discouraged Mr. Lozano from contacting his relatives, since she believed they were the source of his illness, her notes indicate.
Once when Dr. Bean-Bayog had Mr. Lozano admitted to a hospital, she refused to tell his family his whereabouts until Mrs. Williams threatened to call the police, Mrs. Williams said.
Marcos Lozano, Paul's father, flew to Boston in June 1990 and demanded to know why Dr. Bean-Bayog was ending treatment. According to Norma Kilgore, another of the sisters, Dr. Bean-Bayog replied: "Your son is 80 percent suicidal. You know this runs in the family. He'll probably kill himself. I've done all I can for him."
 
'Go to My Apartment'
 After Mr. Lozano began treatment with another therapist, Dr. Gault, he called Mrs. Williams in El Paso and told her, "Go to my apartment and you'll understand."
There, she found, "He had everything meticulously, meticulously in order." And what she saw -- the flashcards and the letters and the sexual fantasies written by Dr. Bean-Bayog -- led her to say, "Bingo, there's the madness."
Under questioning by Dr. Gault, according to documents filed with the family's lawsuit, Mr. Lozano said Dr. Bean-Bayog had engaged in sexual activity with him.
These issues -- whether Dr. Bean-Bayog had a sexual relationship with her patient and whether her therapy was proper -- are now under investigation, both in connection with the lawsuit and in the state inquiry.
In a recent emergency session, the board found that her treatment "did not conform to accepted standards of medical practice." But it did not strip her of her license and referred the case for further hearing to the state Division of Administrative Law Appeals.
Did Dr. Bean-Bayog try to take Mr. Lozano back to infancy and become sexually involved with him? Did she let her own fantasies become intertwined with his? Or did Dr. Bean-Bayog simply do her best to help a nightmare patient, experimenting with what she has acknowledged was "somewhat unconventional" therapy? Or is the answer somewhere in the middle?
 
Accounts Unconfirmed
 In fact, in two weeks of interviewing Mr. Lozano's friends and family members for details of his past, The New York Times could find no confirmation of many of the accounts he later gave to Dr. Bean-Bayog about his childhood.
"What is so hard to understand is that no one ever asked us about these stories," said his sister Pilar Williams, one of Mr. Lozano's five older siblings and the member of the family closest to him emotionally.
Psychiatrists say the reason such a story might not be checked is that many of them believe deeply that the therapist must keep everything in confidence in order to help the patient.
A murky issue is whether Dr. Bean- Bayog's therapy was proper, especially because therapists themselves often disagree on what correct treatment is.
Amy Stromsten, a licensed social worker who first met Mr. Lozano when he was admitted to McLean Hospital in 1986, has given an affidavit in the family's malpractice case. In an interview, she said, "His death was hastened by her therapy."
"This was a wonderful kid who just needed his medication, and she put him into regression therapy, totally disorganizing him," Ms. Stromsten said. "If someone has been sexually abused, you don't take them back there and retraumatize them while they are suicidal."
 
The Demons Return
 In February 1991, after electric-shock treatment prescribed by Dr. Gault, Mr. Lozano seemed improved and returned to El Paso with plans to work in a local hospital. But after two weeks, his demons returned.
"He started clinging to his stuffed animal and he started talking to me in his infantile voice," Mrs. Williams said. He kept muttering, "I miss Margaret."
Finally he said, "I'm hearing her voice again."
"What is the voice telling you?"
"She's telling me to kill myself."
Gathered around his grave on the anniversary of his death, his family mourned the loss of their most brilliant member. In the cold wind, Epiphany Lozano, his mother, kissed her hand and bent to touch his grave.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The story of Paul Lozano, who sought therapy from a distinguished Harvard psychiatrist, Dr. Margaret Bean-Bayog, and committed suicide after she terminated his therapy, has drawn attention to the worlds of malpractice law and psychiatric regulation. Members of Mr. Lozano's family visited his grave at the Evergreen East Cemetery in El Paso on the first anniversary of his death. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times); Dr. Margaret Bean-Bayog, who depicted herself as Mr. Lozano's mother in therapy sessions. (Associated Press); Paul Lozano, who had taught himself to read by the age of 4.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; MALPRACTICE; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); SUICIDE (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); WRITERS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (70%); COCAINE (51%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; MYDANS, SETH; LOZANO, PAUL; BEAN-BAYOG, MARGARET (DR) RICHARD 'CALVIN' KLEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



404 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Behind the Scenes;
To President's Campaign Manager, It's Been a Season of Smooth Sailing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11

 BODY:
Public approval of George Bush's Presidency has been scraping along at historic lows for two months. A third of all Republican voters have consistently rejected the President through the spring's primaries. A drumbeat of news reports is depicting the White House as adrift and bereft of bright ideas. And the prevailing view of Mr. Bush's campaign performance is that it has been, ah, uneven.
Not to worry, says Robert M. Teeter. 
 "You cannot get distracted totally by the primary and forget why we're here. We're here to win the election in November," Mr. Teeter, the Republican poll taker who is running Mr. Bush's campaign, said in a recent conversation. "Disarray stories are around, but, obviously, I don't believe them. In fact, I'm kind of surprised, because I think the campaign is running very well."
He paused and then added, "To be honest with you, I think it's running spectacularly well."
 
Too Nice for Job?
 "Well" is not the adverb of choice among many leading Republicans. Some of them say Mr. Teeter is too complacent, too contemplative, too short of the hair-trigger reflexes a good manager needs for a Presidential political fistfight.
They also say he is too nice. In some Republican campaign circles, his nickname is Blood and Guts, a sarcastic reference to Mr. Teeter's reluctance to employ the pit bull politics that Mr. Bush's last campaign manager, Lee Atwater, used to mangle Michael S. Dukakis in 1988.
"Here's a guy who's an optimist, a guy who has that James Stewart, 'Wonderful Life' quality," said one top Republican campaign consultant. "James Stewart never threw the first punch. Teeter won't either. It's his strength, but it's his biggest weakness."
Witness the last two months, in which Mr. Teeter's campaign was first blind-sided by the anger of New Hampshire voters over the economy and then idled as Mr. Bush's conservative challenger, Patrick J. Buchanan, pasted the South with a blizzard of negative advertisements and caustic speeches.
Mr. Buchanan has since faded. But critics nodded knowingly early last month when, hours before the expiration of Mr. Bush's deadline for Congress to pass his economic-growth legislation, Mr. Teeter was still huddled at the White House with the chief of staff, Samuel K. Skinner, debating the timing and tactics of the President's response.
Mr. Bush had laid down his deadline 52 days earlier.
"There's much too much tactical figuring out what they're going to do in next 48 hours," the House Republican whip, Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, said the next day. "They just do not understand the rhythm and strategy of organizing and building a nationwide grass-roots effort."
And yet, there is no ignoring Mr. Teeter's guiding principles: that primaries, public opinion and the economic angst propelling Mr. Bush's nose dive are transient; that people vote the long run, and that voters will conclude that in the long run Mr. Bush is superior to any challenger.
For one thing, Mr. Teeter is no novice. He has worked for the campaigns of every Republican President since Richard M. Nixon -- six campaigns over 24 years. He devised much of the 1976 Republican strategy that carried Gerald R. Ford from 30 points back in the polls to within an ace of Jimmy Carter.
For another, Mr. Teeter's cool approach is a proven winner. "There's no reason to make a drastic shift," he told The Detroit Free Press in May 1988, when he was the principal strategist for a Bush Presidential campaign swooning in the polls against Mr. Dukakis. "There's plenty of time to run the campaign and get the public to focus on the candidate. The polls will right themselves."
And Mr. Bush won easily.
 
Prediction of Closeness
 During an interview at Bush-Quayle headquarters, in a plain 12-story building four blocks from the Oval Office, Mr. Teeter predicted that this year's contest would be far closer. But he argued against making book against Mr. Bush just yet. Two critical elements of the 1992 Presidential race -- the Democratic nominee and the state of the economy in the fall -- are still a matter of guesswork, he said, and the underlying themes of the campaign are only now emerging.
Beyond the economy, he said, he detects new uneasiness about the future. He sees rising fear among middle-class voters that the nation's social fabric is unraveling, and a sense that their financial destiny has suddenly become hostage to events and economies far from their borders.
In Bush campaign parlance, the issues are "jobs, family and peace," and Mr. Teeter is excited about them. "What you've got in that sense is a merger between the two historic big issues in American Presidential elections, which are foreign policy and the domestic economy," he said. "I think there's nobody in the world better placed to integrate those two things and lead the country, based on his experience and ability, than the President."
Mr. Bush's experience, ability and vision are what Mr. Teeter intends to pound into the electoral psyche this spring. The messages will be blended like a fine recording so that Mr. Bush does not sound like a Johnny-one-note, too strident or obsessive on a single topic, but comes across as a reasoned, broad-minded leader.
 
Some Disappointment
 Such insights have made Mr. Teeter perhaps the most respected campaign adviser in either party, although even the best can fumble.
Mr. Teeter was paid nearly $80,000 last fall to advise Dick Thornburgh, an old friend and Mr. Bush's former Attorney General, who was running for the Senate in Pennsylvania. Mr. Teeter told Mr. Thornburgh to run on his record as an experienced and able Washington hand, said one of Mr. Thornburgh's chief aides, Murray Dickman.
Mr. Thornburgh began his race in August with a 40-point lead in the polls. He lost in November by 20 percentage points to a Democrat who painted him as part of the Washington problem rather than part of the solution.
Mr. Teeter gave some of the best advice of the campaign, Mr. Dickman said. But in retrospect, he said, "all of us, including Bob, made a serious mistake" in not paying closer heed to the volatile mix of voter unhappiness toward the Washington establishment.
So this time, Mr. Teeter's planning has added a fourth issue, Congress, to the re-election agenda. The object is both to attack Democrats and to cast Mr. Bush, who as Vice President and President has now been in the White House for a longer uninterrupted stretch than anyone since Franklin D. Roosevelt, as the outsider come to do battle against entrenched Washington.
Mr. Teeter has been more successful since the Pennsylvania contest in guiding the primary campaign against Mr. Buchanan. Mr. Teeter said he deliberately let the Buchanan forces outspend the far-better-financed Bush campaign throughout the South and New Hampshire. Mr. Buchanan, he said, did not run a cost-effective race, and Mr. Teeter did not think that spending more money would add that many more votes for President Bush.
The tactic drove Bush workers to distraction, but it may have worked, since Mr. Buchanan is now out of money and Mr. Bush has a lot to spend. Richard Wirthlin, who was Ronald Reagan's poll taker, said in an interview that it was a very wise decision, and was an example of where Mr. Teeter's laid-back style, counterintuitive though it may be, worked well.
Mr. Teeter allows that the Bush themes have not always come together perfectly in the campaign's initial months. But he says that Mr. Bush opened his re-election race in mid-December under less than ideal conditions: late, with an unanticipated primary opponent, with a new chief of staff and a reshuffling of the White House policy-making machinery, and with pressing economic problems to tackle.
Given that, he said, the campaign has done "spectacularly well" to assemble a nationwide network of fund-raisers and organizers, hire its staff and conduct a frenetic two-month primary campaign across 18 states.
"Sooner or later we'll get judged on our results," Mr. Teeter said. "That's why I guess I like politics so much."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Disarray stories are around, but, obviously, I don't believe them. In fact, I'm kind of surprised, because I think the campaign is running very well," said Robert M. Teeter, President Bush's campaign manager, despite the rejection of the President by a third of Republican voters at the polls. (George Tames for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PRIMARIES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TEETER, ROBERT M GEORGE W BUSH (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



405 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Slump Vs. Wetlands in Trenton Bill to Revive Construction Permits

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 11

 BODY:
In a battle pitting builders against citizens groups and environmentalists, the New Jersey Assembly is to vote on Monday on a bill that would automatically extend through 1994 all building permits that have expired in the last three years.
Builders say the extension will spur construction in a time of recession. But citizens groups say it would damage the environment by allowing builders to skirt strict laws passed since the permits were issued. 
 The so-called fast-track legislation was passed by the Senate earlier this month in a 33-to-1 vote that was heavily Republican. The bill also has strong support among Assembly Republicans, who control that house, 58 to 22.
Gov. Jim Florio, considered a strong supporter of environmental protection laws but also eager to turn around the state's sagging economy, said he was particulary concerned that the bill not endanger the state's fragile wetlands. He said that Scott Weiner, commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Protection, was working with legislative leaders to preserve safeguards in the bill.
 
Florio Watching Bill
 "My understanding is that it is undergoing some changes, and I will take a look at what emerges," the Governor said.
Environmentalists have said they are worried that projects drafted several years ago would not have the same prohibitions against potential damage to wetlands and other environmental considerations that are now mandatory in many local permit laws.
In two examples of protections they are seeking to preserve, the environmentalists cited limiting the number of sewer hookups allowed in developments, which has been reduced in some areas, and requiring higher levels of waste-water treatment.
The bill would grant an automatic extension of most local building permits that expired after Jan. 1, 1989. Because some of those permits were originally issued in 1986 or even earlier, environmentalists maintain that developers will be able to push ahead with projects approved when enviromental restrictions were not as strict.
 
'Poised to Wipe Out 10 Years'
 "Our concern is that without legitimate analysis, the legislation is poised to wipe out 10 years of environmental municipal planning and the gains the Legislature itself has adopted to protect the environment," said Rob Stuart, director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, which opposes the permit extension.
Mr. Stuart called the legislation "a power play by the development community to achieve what they have lost at the municipal level, using the recessionary climate as a smokescreen."
Mr. Stuart and Ed McCool, executive director of New Jersey Common Cause, maintain that the lobbying power and campaign donations of the builders are a major factor in the swift advancement of the legislation.
The two citizens groups, joined by New Jersey Environmental Federation, issued a joint statement after the Senate vote linking the success of the legislation to the $443,000 that real-estate interests and builders contributed in last year's legislative elections.
 
Postponed by Recession
 "This legislation moved thorugh committee and the Senate before most people knew what effect it would have," Mr. Stuart said.
But builders and the Republican backers maintain that the proposed extension is driven not by political considerations, but by the need to renew proposed construction projects that were postponed by the recession.
The builders maintain that delays in projects that already have permits would simply increase their costs just when construction should be renewed to spur the sagging economy.
Although Republicans generally support the extension, the only no vote in the Senate was by a Republican, Senator William E. Schluter of Flemington, in Mercer County. He argued that any help the extension were to give the building industry would come at the expense of the environment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION BUILDING PERMITS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WETLANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (67%); CITIES (60%); 

PERSON: KING, WAYNE ROB STUART (83%); TRENTON BILL (62%); JIM FLORIO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



406 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 42; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Hudson Bass Running, but Off Limits to Fishermen

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NYACK, N.Y., April 7

 BODY:
In an annual rite of spring, shad and striped bass are returning to the Hudson River to spawn.
For the dwindling number of commercial fishermen on the river, the fish, although plentiful, are a mixed catch -- a legacy of a 16-year-old controversy about toxic PCB's in the river. The bass, considered unfit for human consumption, must be thrown back while the shad are kept for sale as a gourmet delight. 
 The difference stems from the eating habits of the fish, which both return to the river of their birth to lay eggs. The striped bass eat small fish in the river and thus accumulate PCB's, while the shad do not feed in their six-week sojourn in the river and remain PCB-free.
 
General Electric Plants
 PCB's, or polychlorinated biphenyls, were deposited in the river over a 30-year period ending in 1976 from two General Electric plants in Fort Edward and Hudson Falls. Until that time, PCB's were used in manufacturing electrical equipment because of their excellent insulating qualities.
Although little has been done officially on state plans to cleanse the river of PCB's, the PCB levels of the contaminated fish are declining, according to the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
"But you still can't eat the bass; that's the anomaly," said Christopher Letts of the Hudson River Foundation, a nonprofit group that conducts education programs about the Hudson.
Despite the gradual improvement in the Hudson, the state is still backing a controversial plan to dredge contaminated sediments from the river bottom and bury them on land.
If nothing is done, state environmental officials said, future floods in the upper Hudson River could possibly carry PCB now buried in the river sediment downstream to the spawning areas of the bass.
 
Commercial Fishing Potential
 The plan is now under review by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency as part of a complete re-examination of the PCB problem. Its recommendations, which could range from doing nothing at all to approval of the state plan, are not expected until the summer of 1993.
Meanwhile, fish seem to be flourishing in the river, said Robert Gabrielson, president of the Hudson River Commercial Fishermen's Association, who has been fishing in the Hudson for 50 years.
In addition to large numbers of striped bass and shad, the river supports a population of "millions of catfish," blue crabs and American eels, he said. If commercial fishing for them were permitted, he said, "the economic value to the Hudson Valley would be enormous."
"There's been no decline in the fish, only a decline in fishermen," he said, attributing it to the state ban on commercial fishing for striped bass. "When I was a young man, there used to be hundreds of fishermen on the river. Now there are only 40 to 50."
In 1991, the last year for which figures are available, the state issued 90 commercial shad fishing licenses, down from 144 in 1988.
One of the license holders, Ron Ingold of Edgewater, N.J., fishes in the shadow of the George Washington Bridge. Mr. Gabrielson, another license holder, and his son, Robert Jr., fish out of Nyack, just north of the Tappan Zee Bridge.
 
Shad and Striped Bass
 Mr. Ingold and Mr. Gabrielson set nets in the river, trapping the fish as they swim upriver in the flood tides twice a day. Using old-fashioned muscle power, they pull the nets up by hand and remove the fish, which weigh three to four pounds, one by one.
Coming into the Burd Street Marina here in two boats last Monday, the opening day of the shad season, the Gabrielsons unloaded several boxes of fish.
Mr. Gabrielson pulled the boxes of shad into his ice house for shipment later to the Fulton Fish Market in New York. He left the others containing striped bass with two technicians from the Department of Environmental Conservation, Peter Liebig and Robert Morse, for PCB testing.
The Federal Food and Drug Administration guidelines for safety in fish are less than 2 parts per million of PCB's. The limit is based on studies showing that PCB's could cause cancer in laboratory animals, but there is no conclusive evidence showing that it is a human carcinogen.
In its latest official report, dated December 1991, the State Department of Environmental Conservation said that PCB levels in striped bass had markedly declined in the lower Hudson River. In 1978, the average level was 18.1 parts per million, dropping to 6.1 in 1980 and 2.79 in 1990.
"While this report presents some good news about PCB levels in striped bass in the Hudson, it is not a clear sign that all is well," said Thomas C. Jorling, commissioner of the department. "Concentrations of PCB remain high enough to present a risk to the public health and the environment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: PCB levels have been declining in the Hudson River, although little has been done officially to cleanse it, but some fish are still inedible. Robert Gabrielson, right, president of the Hudson River Commercial Fishermen's Association, said that if more commercial fishing were permitted, the value to the Hudson Valley would be enormous. Fishing with him in Nyack, N.Y., was Andrew Brennan. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUDSON RIVER UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; STRIPED BASS; SHAD (FISH); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB); WATER POLLUTION COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); FISHES (90%); RIVERS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); FINFISH FISHING (89%); SHELLFISH FISHING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); FISHING LAW (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



407 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS;
Top Athletes Are Being Wooed to Fill Some Big Shoes

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Forget the burning question about how the United States basketball team will fare at the Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, with Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley and the other pros taking on the world.
Consider this one: How good at selling shoes will the Algerian runner Noureddine Morceli be? Or Jane N'Goto, a 3,000-meter specialist from Kenya, or the triple-jump record-holder, Inessa Kravets of Russia? 
 Morceli is under contract to Nike; N'Goto and Kravets to Reebok. Both athletic-shoe companies have signed numerous foreign athletes to sponsorship deals to broaden the overseas marketability of their shoes and apparel at a time when their future sales growth is primarily in Europe.
"The more athletes you have around the world, the more you develop a reputation that we're a company athletes want to sign with," said John Duerdan, the Welsh-born president of Reebok.
 
'The Best and the Brightest'
 Companies have been reaching out to bankroll the shoe, apparel, financial and travel needs of athletes rising up from the crazy-quilt economic and political landscape of the former Soviet Union, changing Eastern bloc nations and third world countries. Their goal is not geared to create immediate retail riches but rather to use the spotlight of an Olympic year to show consumers that world-class athletes compete in their products. Said Steve Miller, Nike's director of athletics: "Our philosophy is to secure the best and the brightest."
Reebok, for example, recently signed 12 middle-distance Kenyan runners, including Moses Kiptanui, who in February last month broke the world indoor record for 3,000 meters. Reebok also signed 15 athletes from the Unified Team, among them Lyudmila Norshilenko, the 1991 women's world champion in the 100-meter hurdles, and Rodion Gataullin, the European pole-vault champion.
Nike's stable of world-class shoe-wearing athletes include Sergei Bubka, the Ukrainian pole-vaulter who was the first to surpass a height of 20 feet, Richard Chelimo, the Kenyan long-distance runner, and Katrin Krabbe, the German sprinter.
Sponsoring world-class athletes is nothing new for athletic-shoe companies. Germany's Adidas pioneered the signing of national sports federations and Olympic committees to shoe and apparel contracts and still has ties with about 100 countries. In the United States, Olympians such as Carl Lewis and Jackie Joyner-Kersee serve as well-paid human billboards for shoe companies.
 
Like a Political Spy Trial
 The rivalries between the equipment companies have had all the intrigue of a political spy novel. In 1968, a representative for Puma, the German rival to Adidas, was jailed by Mexican authorities for trying to import shoes into the country for athletes to wear during the Mexico City Olympics. Under-the-table payments to athletes were the rule rather than the exception before athletes were allowed to compete for prize money, and some competitors even divided their loyalties for spoils, wearing an Adidas shoe on one foot and a Puma on the other.
But the emergence of new companies in the game, the diminished power of Adidas and Puma, combined with the new politics of Eastern Europe and the clear emergence of African athletes, have thrown open the doors to pursue available athletes or uncommitted sports federations or committees.
Reebok's pursuit of its Kenyan athletes began several years ago with attempts to secure the sponsorship rights to the entire national team.
"We went through official channels and actually signed a contract, but if you sign a deal with one committee, it's a different committee one week later," said Dave Singleton, the marketing vice president of Reebok's international division. "There was no consistency about whom to approach."
Reebok turned to Kim McDonald, a London-based agent with ties to Kenyan athletes.
"Until about two years ago, African athletes had a bad reputation for being with several shoe companies at once," said McDonald. "They'd say O.K. to Nike and wear Reebok and say yes to Reebok and wear New Balance."
Thirteen Kenyan athletes signed with Reebok in 1991, a roster expanded to 25 last month in a contract worth about $1 million, said McDonald. "To Reebok's credit, they took a lot of athletes they'd never heard of," he said, a strategy aimed at keeping future Olympians in reserve.
The shoe companies are not in a mad frenzy to sign athletes willy-nilly. They are trying to be selective in providing backing to likely and future Olympians who might be featured on television and magazine covers winning international and Olympic events attired in the companies' products.
 
Track Club Pursued
 In 1990, before German unification, Nike pursued the Neubrandenburg track club, a breeding ground for East German champions, including Krabbe, the runner Grit Breuer, the shot-putter Astrid Kumbernuss and the heptathlete Heike Tischler.
"We knew unification was at hand and knew it would be a German training ground," said Miller. "Other companies probably thought about doing it, but it wasn't on the back burner for us. We were very proactive about it."
Nike's support of more than $1 million provides equipment and apparel for the members of the club, a general assistance fund to the athletes, stipends and individual contracts with the top stars and sponsorship of the Nike Neubrandenburg track meet in Germany.
Nike's signing of Bubka, the pole-vaulting star of the former Soviet team, to a long-term contract that is being renegotiated is regarded as the company's glasnost coup. "When he started breaking records, he was wooed by everybody, including J. C. Penney," said Miller. "It was highly competitive. He had worn Adidas as part of the Soviet Union and now he was free."
The Nike-Bubka contract calls for the pole-vaulter to promote cross-training shoes, a small but growing category for the company, while continuing to wear apparel by Adidas. "His domination of an event that requires as much strength and skill is the kind of association we want to build on," said John de la Forest, the vice president of Nike's European marketing.
With the rigid state control of the Soviet Union, Bubka would still be shod in Adidas, the former trailblazer in locking up federations full of athletes. Because of its sheer size and remaining links to national federations, it remains formidable. But it is troubled.
Bernard Tapie, the Frenchman to whom the Dassler family sold Adidas, is reportedly underfinanced, and his president, Rene Jaggi, will leave by year's end.
There are signs of how respect for Adidas isn't what it was when the Soviet Union was a totalitarian regime. One is a recent threat by the now-charterless state sports committee, Sovintersport, to sue the company for reneging on a $2.9 million contract to support former Soviet athletes.
"Because they have ceased to exist, we canceled the contract," said Tom Harrington, the vice president of marketing communications for Adidas, which is outfitting the Unified Team. But Adidas will have a contract with the Unified Team's Olympic Committee, and their athletes may include some of those who competed under the previous contract.
According to Carr, Horst Dassler, whose promotional genius built Adidas and whose death roiled it, "had everybody in Europe under his thumb."
"He told the Russians what to do," Carr said. "Now it's wide open. Nobody is around to tell the Czechs they have to wear the three stripes."
Adidas's weakness opened the doors for Nike and other firms like Mizuno and Asics, the Japanese company that also sells sneakers under the Tiger brand and sponsors the Unified and Italian volleyball teams, among others.
"Other companies can go in and cherry-pick the athletes," said Harrington, adding that Adidas will not spend the cash to pursue pursue federations and athletes wholeheartedly. "It's a free market with all its benefits and disadvantages. We are all battling for the same athletes."
Nevertheless, scores of countries (a list that will be trimmed through July) will wear Adidas apparel in Barcelona, including the Unified, British, French, German, Kenyan and Ethiopian teams, said Adrian Leek, the track-and-field business unit manager for Adidas U.S.A., which is operated by a management team assembled by Peter Ueberroth, the former baseball commissioner.
 
Reebok a Late-Comer
 In the early 1980's, Nike had so many world and United States athletes under contract, they did not know how to use them all. Reebok did not have that problem. It came late to the starting blocks.
Paul Fireman, the chairman of Reebok, "went to the Seoul Olympics in 1988 and nobody was wearing Reeboks," said Carr. "It was an embarrassment that Adidas and Nike and Asics had all the world athletes. They've made a conscious effort to identify with world athletes."
Part of Reebok's problem four years ago was that it was better known for fashion and aerobics footwear than for performance shoes top athletes want to wear.
How the shoe companies measure the impact of athlete-endorsed shoes and apparel is an uncertain science, once you shift the emphasis from shoes identified with the likes of Michael Jordan or Bo Jackson. Somehow they know they have to advertise on Olympians' bodies even if they cannot directly measure the impact. Harrington calls the Olympics "our fashion show."
Whether the strategy that puts the Kenyan steeplechaser Moses Kiptanui in Reeboks does anything but cover his feet is debatable. But Reebok says it is a small price to pay. It has a Kenyan distributor generating modest sales and a venture with a distributor in Russia that will open a Moscow store in July.
"I stopped some kids in Red Square and one had a pair of Reebok 4600's on, and I asked where he got them," said Brendon Dillingstone, Reebok's vice president of international operations. "He said on holiday in the U.S. Lots of people are going out of the country and coming back with branded product."
But with domestic sales fairly flat, the only way to expand their presence globally is for the shoe companies to outfit superior athletes wherever they may be.
"We don't retail in every country where we have athletes signed up," said Dusty Kidd, another Nike executive. "It matters more where they compete than where they come from. Richard Chelimo may not be a big name in Kenya, but he's an international star. Where he runs is important."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rodion Gataullin (NYT); Noureddinr Morceli (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (93%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (93%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (93%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); MEXICO (92%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (76%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (73%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC; REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD NIKE INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIKE INC; REEBOK INTERNATIONAL LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); MEXICO (92%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (76%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (73%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; APPAREL; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); RUNNING (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); ATHLETES (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); ESPIONAGE (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (50%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



408 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 53; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: CAMPUS LIFE: Brown;
Codes and Classes On Sex Offenses Draw Praise

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I.

 BODY:
In the fall of 1990, Brown University here gained notoriety when a so-called rape list - graffiti naming alleged rapists - was found on the walls of a campus bathroom. As a result, the university adopted procedures to deal with sexual assault and harassment on campus. Those procedures are now winning praise.
 The 1990 incident provoked a campus debate about how the university had been handling sex-related complaints. Led by the Committee of Four, four students who becaume the spokeswomen for the cause, students accused the univeristy of ineptness in dealing with the issue. 
 "I know, based on what I've seen since 1991, Brown has been doing a lot for victims of sexual assault and for the campus in general," said Therese Curtin, chairwoman of the Rhode Island State Task Force on Sexual Assault on Campuses. Brown is a member of the task force, which was formed in January 1991.
 "Brown's participating in the state-wide task force speaks positively of Brown's commitment to addressing any policy changes needed," said Peg Langhamer, executive director of the Rhode Island Rape Crisis Center. "I think it is clear that Brown and the other colleges and universities are working together to create the best-quality services for victims and to amend polices where needed."
 Last spring, the University Disciplinary Council successfully heard its first three cases dealing with allegations of sexual assault. As a result of those hearings, one student was expelled, one was put on probation for the rest of his undergraduate years with anotation about the charges on his student transcript, and the third was suspended for a semester with an entry on his transcript.
 Last summer, the university created a separate offense in the nonacademic disciplinary code: sexual misconduct, defined as nonconsensual phycical contact of a sexual nature. Previously, cases involving sexual assault were in a category of behavior that causes or can reasonably be expected to cause physical harm or shows flagrant disrepect for the well-being of others.
 
'Misconoduct,' Not 'Assault'
 "Pursuing cases within the university is more viable than taking cases to the Providence courts, in the sense that many women won't go into the more public arena," said the dean of student life, Robin Rose.
 Toby Simon, the associate dean of the college, said: "Our offense is termed 'sexual misconduct,' not 'sexual assault' - that's by design. The univeristy did not want to have an offense in its code which is a felony in the state of Rhode Island. Also, it is a broader term which encompasses more behaviors, behaviors which wouldn't fall under the strictest legal definition of assault."
 Jesselyn Brown, a member of the Committee of Four who is a senior form Potomac, Md., majoring in American civilization, women's studies and political science, said: "Because we now condemn sexual misconduct in our policy, we send the message that Brown will not tolerate sexual violence on campus and is willing to back it up with disciplinary action. Many other colleges condemn sexual violence in theory but not in action."
 Brown established a sexual-assault task force in the spring of 1991. Divided into committees on policy, education and communication, the task force looks at the issue of sexual assault day to day.
 
Class on Date Rape
 "The task force exists to tackle the ongoing issue of sexual assault on campus and seves as a forum to make sure the system is working," Ms. Brown said. "As long as sexual assault is a problem, the task force will exist."
 A mandatory freshman class meeting dealing with the issue of sexual assault of "date rape" greeted the members of the class of 1995. Entitled "Sex Without Consent: Implications for Brown Students," the meeting was first held during freshmen orientation in August.
 The Sexual Assault Peer Educators, a group of students from all areas of campus life including fraternity and sorority members, athletes and women's advocates, led the orientation. It included a role-playing session involving a series of events leading to the disclosure of sexual assault by one character.
 "It is important for freshmen to know that acquaintance rape does happen on all college campuses and to get them thinking about it," said Karen Hull, a peer educator who is a junior majoring in applied mathematics and economics from Bardonia, N.Y.
 Mr. Brown said: "I think it's important not to forget the rape list. Campuses tend to suffer from institutional amnesia. We need to remember so it does not happen again, so the same mistakes are not made."
 '

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROWN UNIVERSITY BROWN UNIVERSITY (95%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY BROWN UNIVERSITY (95%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MISCONDUCT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FELONIES (78%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); WOMEN (77%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (76%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (76%); PROBATION (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



409 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: The Quest for a New Zoning Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
THERE may never be a better time to overhaul the Zoning Resolution that governs the physical evolution of New York City. But that does not mean that it will -- or can -- be changed.
The current ordinance, enacted in 1916, encouraged the development of tall towers set in broad plazas, introduced floor-area restrictions as a way of controlling density and divided the city into residential, commercial and manufacturing districts. Since its last thorough revision in 1961, however, it has become so heavily laden with amendments and revisions that it now seems a mass of contradictory impulses, no longer embodying a vision or plan. 
 "The zoning ordinance does both too much and too little," said Peter D. Salins, chairman of the urban affairs and planning department at Hunter College and senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research.
"On the one hand, it is a document of staggering complexity," he said. "On the other hand, with all its detail, all its attempts at fine-tuning, all its layers of discretionary review, all its community and watchdog-group involvement, the increments of development that emerge from this regulatory monster are widely despised on all sides."
And this might be the moment to act. "Because there's so little development, it's probably a terrific time to redo the Zoning Resolution," said Robert F. Wagner Jr., a former chairman of the Planning Commission, at a well-attended planning and zoning symposium held on Jan. 30.
Free from the pressures posed by intense construction, planners have the chance to chart a fresh course in zoning, instead of incessantly fine-tuning a document that took effect 31 years ago, when New York was a much different city, before communities were given a formal role in land-use review. Indeed, under the new Charter, the planning agency must prepare a comprehensive planning and zoning report every four years. The first is due in December and might form the germ of a new zoning ordinance.
However, the same economic paralysis that theoretically would free planners for such a big task has also devastated the City Planning Department, whose full-time staff has been cut 25 percent since 1990. Moreover, the environmental reviews that have been instituted since the 1961 Zoning Resolution might make it financially and logistically impossible to embark on citywide zoning. An environmental-impact statement for a single project can take years to produce and cost millions of dollars.
Perhaps the most basic reason the Zoning Resolution may never be fundamentally rewritten is the lack of political will to do so. If zoning is the regulatory tool by which a comprehensive plan is shaped, some broadly held vision of New York's future would be a necessary precursor to a thoroughly revised ordinance. It is hard to imagine such a consensus' being developed when specific issues like shelters for the homeless and garbage incinerators have proved so divisive.
YET there seems to be widespread agreement that something ought to be done. Few are content with the current zoning ordinance, a cumbersome, bloated, 835-page patchwork that can be navigated only by a handful of specialists, leaving everyone else -- developers, architects, community leaders and neighbors -- at a baffled disadvantage.
"There's certainly a need to simplify the Zoning Resolution," said Richard L. Schaffer, the chairman of the city's Planning Commission and director of the Planning Department. "What I'd like to do is prune away the accreted 30 years of amendments, to the extent possible."
In a broader sense, Mr. Schaffer said: "We need to overhaul the Zoning Resolution to accommodate change in economically realistic ways that are more sensitive to the existing built environment. You've got to overhaul the text and overhaul the maps."
New York created the nation's first comprehensive ordinance with the 1916 Zoning Resolution. By the 1950's, its defects were clear. In language strikingly similar to that heard at the symposium, James Felt, then the planning chairman, said on Feb. 15, 1959, that "the price we pay for clinging to an obsolete zoning structure -- burdened by the weight of amendments it was never intended to support -- is already too high."
The zoning ordinance he introduced that day, crafted by the architectural firm of Voorhees, Walker, Smith & Smith, was adopted in December 1960 after numerous revisions. Now, some people say, the ordinance is once again overburdened.
"The present city system may have come about as far as it can, as a credible regulatory mechanism," wrote Norman Marcus, former general counsel of the Planning Department and a partner at Bachner, Tally, Polevoy & Misher, in a paper prepared for the symposium, "Planning and Zoning New York City -- Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow," held at New York University.
"THE passage of 30 years has not aged the ordinance and its administrative apparatus gracefully," Mr. Marcus said. He called the resolution "a collage of ad hoc, jerry-built and more thoughtful inspirations, grafted onto a long-disowned armature."
"I believe it's nearing a nervous breakdown," said John Shapiro, principal in the planning consulting firm of Abeles, Phillips, Preiss & Shapiro. "We should set about overhauling it with all due speed."
However, Marla G. Simpson, director of land-use planning for Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, noted that "everybody says they're for simplicity, but it depends on whose ox is being gored."
"On that score," she said, "the developers don't sound any different than the communities. They want what they're for to move quickly and they want what they're against not to have a discretionary route."
The most specific and radical vision of a new Zoning Resolution to be offered at the symposium came from Mr. Salins. He differed from many of his colleagues in his view of zoning's basic purpose.
"While planners have long believed that zoning was their God-given and court-sanctioned way of implementing a 'comprehensive plan' and pursuing other planning objectives of the moment," Mr. Salins wrote, it was actually created "to prevent just three kinds of harms: excessive density, the juxtaposition of incompatible activities (especially factories near homes) and the most blatant of visual offenses.
"I propose we go back to the principle that zoning is a harm-preventing, rather than benefit-creating, enterprise."
In contrast to the current 125 district categories and 37 special districts, where zoning rules seek to perpetuate the special characteristics that define a given area, Mr. Salins proposed 18 zoning-district categories and no special districts. He said development ought to be permitted largely on an "as-of-right" basis, without need for discretionary review and special permits.
He urged that zoning be used to support what the market determines to be the "highest and best use" of given sites and that higher-ranked land uses, such as residential, be generally permitted in lower-ranked districts, such as manufacturing zones, instead of being prohibited.
Later in the symposium, R. Susan Motley, a former planning commission member, said, "It horrifies me when I hear conversation about the 'free market,' when I know that large developments are subsidized."
Marilyn Jordan Taylor, urban design partner in the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, proposed a zoning hierarchy based not on use but on degrees of desired change.
RATHER than residential, commercial and manufacturing districts, in her proposal there would be preserved districts, where "the emphasis would be on proscription -- allowing uses to evolve but staying with the physical norm"; stabilizing districts, where "the emphasis would be on balance -- meeting the average" and changing districts, where "zoning tools would require response to specific articulated public objectives" and public investment.
Mr. Schaffer said that, in certain respects, an overhaul of the Zoning Resolution was already under way, with the current development of a comprehensive waterfront plan, a citywide industrial study and a reexamination of community-facility regulations, which have been unchanged since 1961.
Yet even these broad initiatives might be seen as more piece-by-piece layering. And Mr. Wagner, who is now vice chairman of the L H Research concern, a public opinion and market research firm, said any attempt to rewrite zoning "should be done all at once, as opposed to incrementally."
Significant hurdles loom in pursuit of a new or throughly revised resolution.
"While there are many of us in the trenches who think it should be done, we really don't have a very high official who'd take this on as a major political platform," said Sigurd Grava, president of the American Planning Association's New York chapter, director of the graduate planning program at Columbia University and a vice president of the Parsons Brinkerhoff engineering concern.
"The idea of starting from scratch is probably a nightmare," said Samuel H. Lindenbaum, a zoning expert and partner in the law firm of Rosenman & Colin. "The city is divided into 59 community boards and in any community board you can't get them to agree on what's best for that area."
Besides the low rung occupied by zoning on the political agenda and the lack of city planners to carry it out, another obstacle is the absence of an overall plan.
"We need more than a new Zoning Resolution," said Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, "we need to build a consensus about what we want to be in terms that are sufficiently particular to allow the city to adopt general physical master plans."
Mr. Schaffer said the Planning Department was "going to try, within the constraints of staff and time, to articulate a vision and comprehensive planning policies."
But the commission and department must overcome years of inertia in which the implicit message from City Hall seemed to be, "Make no big plans."
"If anything epitomizes the failure of New York City to plan, it is the fact that the Zoning Resolution is the plan," said Richard T. Anderson, president of the Regional Plan Association. "Most people think of it in physical terms. That's a fundamental mistake."
Yet planning on a citywide scale might become ensared in the city's environmental quality review process (called by its acronym, CEQR; pronounced "SEEK-er") and its byproduct, the environmental-impact statement (known as an E.I.S.).
"IN an ironic turn of events," wrote Michael Kwartler, director of the Environmental Simulation Center at the New School for Social Research, "the idea of the E.I.S., conceived as supportive of land-use planning, has proven in practice to inhibit areawide planning and zoning."
"You really need good environmental planning," Mr. Schaffer said. "At the same time, this litigation-driven process known as CEQR has become a dysfunctional impediment to good planning and to updating the Zoning Resolution and the zoning maps."
"I believe state law allows us to substantially reform the city environmental review process," he said, "and we'll be doing that -- with rule-making, management reforms and developing methodologies for areawide E.I.S.'s for area-wide rezonings."
Stuart K. Pertz, a partner at Haines Lundberg Waehler, successor to the Voorhees firm, said, "There may be a way to posit a plan -- a concept, a philosophy, a position -- which could be clear enough so that people could understand its direction but not so specific that it requres an E.I.S."
"When I was on the Planning Commission," he said, "the reason I was frustrated every minute was that I was told, word for word, that there could not be planning because planning requires an E.I.S. and the city couldn't afford an E.I.S. It was like the police saying, 'We'd like to save people from accidents but we're enjoined from doing so.' "
But Ms. Simpson said, "It seems too facile to say, 'We could do it but for the evils of environmental review.' " She suggested that officials abbreviate the process by limiting impact statements to the most critical areas of concern rather than studying scores of issues in minute detail, more to forestall lawsuits than to enhance planning.
Even if a new Zoning Resolution should be adopted for the 21st century, it would certainly have unintended effects, particularly during the transition from the 1961 ordinance, when developers would exploit provisions that were on the verge of extinction.
Ultimately, even the best ordinance would have limits.
"A zoning resolution is not going to be able to deal with the root problems that are out there," Mr. Wagner said. "You can put any kind of zoning you want in Harlem, but it won't change the fact that 82 percent of all births are to single mothers."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the quest for a new zoning resolution for New York City misidentified the date of the current one. It took effect in 1961.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC) MANHATTAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC) MANHATTAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ZONING; CITY CHARTERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL ZONING (94%); ORDINANCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



410 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2829 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Down the Corporate Clubhouse

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
It used to be so easy, so civilized, more a social ritual than a chore. The members of the corporate board would fly in the night before, dine with their old friend, the chief executive, sharing after-dinner brandy and camaraderie. Each director would receive a slender binder of briefing papers that, typically, got a cursory read before the formality of the next morning's board meeting. The chief executive called the tune, and the board hummed along.
"Those days of the corporate club are over," said Gerard Roche, chairman of Heidrick & Struggles, a big executive recruiter. "There's a lot more tension between the board and the chief executive today, but also a lot more communication. Things are going in a healthy but uncomfortable direction." 
 Robert C. Stempel, the chairman and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation, found out just how uncomfortable things can get at the giant auto maker's board meeting in Dallas last Monday. He was removed as the head of the board's executive committee, a powerful advisory and decision-making forum, and he was replaced by an outside director, John G. Smale, the retired chief executive of the Procter & Gamble Company. Mr. Stempel remains G.M.'s chief executive, the person responsible for running the nation's largest car maker day to day.
Yet the abrupt move, accompanied by a board statement declaring the need for a "more aggressive management approach," was seen as a striking step by the outside directors to assert themselves and accelerate the pace of streamlining at G.M., which last year lost $7 billion on its North American car operations. (Related stories on the shakeup, Forum, page 15, and on G.M. Europe's Opel, page 6.)
It is but another in a series of recent cases in which boards or big investors have pressed well-known C.E.O.'s to do everything from slim down their pay packets to retire -- and done so successfully.
Last month, the Chrysler Corporation's board told Lee A. Iacocca that he could not stay on as chairman past his slated retirement date of Dec. 31, despite his appeals to the board for an extension. And the company reported last week that Mr. Iacocca took a 35 percent pay cut last year to roughly $3 million in salary, stock and other compensation.
In February, after John F. Akers, the chairman of the International Business Machines Corporation, met with representatives of California state's big public pension fund, the company said Mr. Akers would have his base salary cut 40 percent, to less than $1.6 million. At Citicorp, the board urged John S. Reed, the chairman, to bring outsiders into the top ranks of the nation's largest bank and onto its powerful management committee. At Sears, Roebuck & Company, once the nation's largest retailer but a lackluster performer for years now, Edward Brennan, who is chairman, chief executive and president, is under pressure from shareholders to divvy up his jobs because they say he has too much power.
And others like Andrew C. Sigler, chief executive of the Champion International Corporation, have been singled out for receiving bonuses year after year when investors could have done better with Treasury bills than with Champion's stock.
The outside directors' putsch at G.M., a company renowned for hidebound, insular ways, was a surprise, but it -- and the actions at other corporations -- is part of the shifting balance of power in corporate America. The grasp of the iron-fisted C.E.O. is weakening as corporate boards become independent-minded and institutional investors flex their muscles.
As watchdogs on management, and pressure groups, they can be very effective. Institutional investors like pension funds have the biggest shareholdings in most large companies. Legally, the board's role is to oversee the management of a company on behalf of the owners, the shareholders. And naturally, it is the outside directors, in theory, who are best placed to hold management accountable.
"In America, we've traditionally had John Wayne C.E.O.'s, the lone individual with all the power in his hands," said Jay Lorsch, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "But the norms in corporate America are changing under pressure from institutional investors and outside directors."
The roll call of major companies whose C.E.O.'s are now under scrutiny from their boards and big investors is partly a byproduct of the intensity of global competition. Capitalism's watchdogs only become concerned when there are problems. G.M., I.B.M. and Citicorp -- three icons of corporate America -- have all reported 1991 losses that range from sizable to staggering. "The notion of these three companies and their C.E.O.'s being under pressure would have been dismissed as lunacy 10 years ago," said Donald Jacobs, dean of Northwestern's Kellogg Graduate School of Management. "But today, it's simply a fact of life."
Still, far more than general economic conditions are behind the effort to restrain the power of C.E.O.'s. The recent furor over executive pay has been attributable not just to the multimillion-dollar pay packets some C.E.O.'s were lugging home at the same time they were laying off workers by the thousands; it also stems from the fact that they seemed to be effectively paying themselves. Too often, the C.E.O.'s picked the board members, who in turn rubber-stamped huge compensation deals for the C.E.O.
"C.E.O. pay is merely the symptom of the larger problem -- the lack of accountability in corporate America," said Sarah Teslik, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, which advises pension funds with total assets of $400 billion.
Executive pay may look excessive but, according to big investors and their advisers, the far greater cost of a system of corporate government stacked in favor of management is companies that are inbred and stodgy, unable to compete successfully against more nimble foreign rivals. "And General Motors is an absolutely classic example of that inability to compete in the global economy," said Ralph Whitworth, president of United Shareholders Association, an investors' advocacy group.
So big pension funds like the California Public Employees Retirement System and the five New York City public employee funds have pushed for a series of structural reforms in corporations, including having a majority of directors be outsiders and putting all outside directors on the board's nominating and compensation committees.
Some big investors and shareholders' groups even advocate curbing the power of C.E.O.'s by splitting up the jobs of the chief executive and chairman, and giving the chairman's post to an outsider. Today, most American corporations combine the two jobs. In Europe, however, splitting the jobs is the norm and more American companies are starting to consider the European pattern -- sometimes because they are being forced to.
The New York City Employees Retirement System and United Shareholders are sponsoring a proxy resolution to break up Mr. Brennan's job at Sears. Like most shareholder initiatives, the resolution is intended mainly as a symbolic step to get management's attention, both at the retailer and in the corporate community in general.
 
C.E.O.'s Get Nervous
 And by that yardstick, the calls for a split chairman-chief executive role are being heard. "Boards are starting to talk about it," said Mr. Roche, the executive recruiter, who is also a director of the Morrison Knudsen Corporation. "It's coming." John Nash, president of the National Association of Corporate Directors, estimates that within five years as many as 40 percent of the Fortune 500 companies will have split the jobs of chairman and C.E.O., compared with the handful that have separated the roles today. "A lot of C.E.O.'s are getting very uncomfortable," Mr. Nash observed.
Appointing a separate chairman and more outside board members who are genuinely independent -- not suppliers, consultants, legal advisers or friends -- are seen as checks on the power of the C.E.O. In a sense, the big institutional investors are addressing a concern about the way companies are seemingly controlled by management insiders that goes back to the 1930's, when A. A. Berle Jr. and Gardiner Means wrote "The Modern Corporation and Private Property," describing how the ownership of American companies became scattered and the stockholders no longer had much influence over the management. More recently, the business historian Alfred D. Chandler Jr., in his Pulitzer prize-winning chronicle of American industry "The Visible Hand," viewed the same characteristics and termed the system "managerial capitalism."
In both management and academic circles, there is a lively debate about just where the balance of power rests today. In Senate testimony last fall, Bruce Atwater, the chief executive of General Mills Inc. and head of the Business Roundtable's task force on corporate governance, said the world of dominant managers and powerless shareholders described by the likes of Berle, Means and Chandler is "unrecognizable in the 1990's." Instead, he went on, large institutional investors control more than half of the shares in America's 1,000 largest companies today and these "powerful investors wield increasing power over the economic system of the United States."
Yet the power of big investors is far less concentrated, or monolithic, than the aggregate numbers might suggest. First, the big corporate pension funds like those covering the workers of G.M. and I.B.M are not pressing corporate boards to change. They are part of the corporate club, and generally keep their mouths shut. So it is only the public pension funds from a handful of states and municipalities -- California, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New York state and New York City, among others -- that are the institutional activists. Nor are the big funds necessarily monolithic in their views. "Institutional investors have about as much in common as brunets," Ms. Teslik observed.
And even giant funds like the California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers, with its $68 billion in assets, typically hold small stakes in a few hundred companies. Its 4.3 million shares of G.M., for example, were less than 1 percent of the auto maker's total stock. Accordingly, a fund's influence on any particular company is limited.
 
Performance Pressure
 But because their investment in corporate America is so extensive, the big funds are being forced to act more like long-term owners. "We can't bail out easily," said DeWitt Bowman, the chief investment officer of Calpers. "So the only way we can improve our performance is to prod corporate America into better performance -- taking a long-term view and managing in the interests of the shareholders."
The reforms Calpers and other big funds are advocating, from executive pay to putting more outsiders in positions of power, are an attempt to send a message to companies. "We've found that poor corporate performance is indicative of a lack of openness in corporate governance," Mr. Bowman said.
Calpers has earmarked a dozen companies to pressure. For example, the California fund is seeking more independent boards at Salomon Brothers and Time Warner, the reform of executive pay policies in companies including I.B.M. and American Express, and improving communication with big investors through the creation of shareholder advisory committees at companies like Chrysler and Polaroid. Similarly, the New York City public pension funds, with total assets of more than $40 billion, are pressing several companies for changes, including appointing more outside directors at General Dynamics and creating an independent compensation committee at Reebok International.
"We're not trying to get involved in day-to-day management," explained Elizabeth Holtzman, New York City's Comptroller and investment adviser to the city's funds. "But we can try to make these companies more accountable. C.E.O.'s may not like it, but they are starting to sit up and take notice when institutional investors express concern."
Most experts and many C.E.O.'s say the increased attention from big investors and the trend toward more independent boards are constructive developments. The shift, they agree, is certainly an improvement over the 1980's, when corporate raiders were the harsh agents of change, the self-appointed policemen of capitalism. "It was very expensive in terms of debt, bankruptcies and resources wasted," said Robert Glauber, a fellow at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and former Undersecretary of the Treasury for finance. "What we're seeing now is a very healthy sign, the process working from within the system as shareholders press management to reform."
 
The Short-Term Outlook
 Still, some executives and business experts warn that there is a danger in judging corporate performance solely on share prices, the gauge used by institutional investors. "Big investors should communicate with management and this evolution is a positive thing," said Donald Clark, the chief executive of Household International Inc. and a member of the Business Roundtable's corporate governance panel. "But institutional investors tend to have a short-term time horizon, and that's one of the weaknesses of our system, making it more difficult for management to make long-term investment decisions."
Fund managers and efficient-market theorists disagree, but some longtime students of business are also skeptical about the balance of power shifting too far in favor of market-bound fund managers. "Capital markets are efficient but not effective if you are going to compete internationally," said Mr. Chandler, an emeritus professor at the Harvard Business School. "That is one of the real lessons of corporate America in the last 20 years."
 
 
 
HOW TO MAKE CAPITALISM WORK
 "The only way for capitalism to work is for owners to take responsibility," declares Lester Thurow, dean of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management.
That, in sum, is the rationale for big investors becoming more involved in running the companies whose shares they hold. Big public pension funds have been moving in that direction recently, but they haven't gone far enough, Mr. Thurow says.
Investors like the California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers, should be sitting on the board, not having occasional meetings with C.E.O.'s, Mr. Thurow contends. "The nub of the matter is having long-term owners in the boardroom," he said. And, in Mr. Thurow's view, big institutions like Calpers should hold stakes of 20 percent or more in a handful of companies, rather than owning a small stake in hundreds of companies.
In his new book "Head to Head: The Coming Economic Battle Among Japan, Europe and America," Mr. Thurow advocates changing American laws to permit the formation of Japanese or European-style business groups in the United States. The Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which prevents banks and other financial institutions from owning large stakes in industrial corporations, should be repealed, he recommends, and antitrust laws loosened.
The corporate groups would link financial institutions, companies and suppliers -- each owning a stake in other members of the group, and each with a stake in the long-term health and survival of the other. Such groups, Mr. Thurow says, would be better cushioned against economic adversity and better able to compete internationally.

 
 
CHECKS AND BALANCES AT THE TOP
 Benjamin M. Rosen, the chairman of the Compaq Computer Corporation, owes his post to the fact that his venture capital firm provided seed money for the Houston-based computer maker. In fact, Sevin Rosen Partners has tried to place its representatives on many of some 50 high-tech companies it has helped start up during the last decade. "We're trying to return to the traditional form of corporate governance where owners are on the board," Mr. Rosen said.
At Compaq, which went public in 1983, chairman and chief executive have always been separate jobs, and Mr. Rosen has always been chairman. Having an outside chairman made it easier to change chief executives last October when Eckhard Pfeiffer replaced Rod Canion as chief executive after a dispute over how quickly the company should move to cut costs and reduce losses.
"The chairman does have a lot more power than just another outside director," Mr. Rosen said. "And when the chairman and the chief executive are the same person, the board is often dominated by the C.E.O."
For his part, Mr. Rosen believes there will be a ripple effect in other boardrooms from last week's shuffle at G.M. "The General Motors thing is going to shake up a lot of outside directors," he said. "It won't be a tidal wave in boardrooms, but it will encourage others to act more independently. And you need genuine checks and balances, people really willing to supervise management."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about corporate management misstated terms of a pay cut taken by John F. Akers, chairman of the International Business Machines Corporation. What was reduced by 40 percent was Mr. Akers's total 1991 compensation, not his base salary. The article also misstated circumstances leading to the cut, announced in February. I.B.M. representatives did not meet until March with the California Public Employees Retirement System, which had complained about Mr. Akers's pay, and he was not at that meeting.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Champion's Andrew Sigler (Associated Press); G.M.'s Robert Stempel (Associated Press) (pg. 5)
 
Drawings of John S. Reed/Citicorp; Robert C. Stemple/General Motors; John F. Akers/I.B.M.; Lee A. Iacocca/Chyrsler; Andrew C. Sigler/Champion International; Edward Brennan/Sears, Roebuck (Illustrations by Christopher Bing) (pg. 1)
 
Graphs show breakdown of 9,751 board seats for the 786 largest public U.S. companies and of characteristics of the 7,162 directors for the 786 largest public U.S. companies by age, sex, race and nationality (Source: Directorship Databank) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (68%); PG (NYSE) (68%); IBMC (BRU) (61%); IBM (NYSE) (61%); IBM (LSE) (61%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (68%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (68%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (68%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (68%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (63%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (61%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (60%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVES (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); PENSION FUNDS (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (66%); 

PERSON: STEMPEL, ROBERT C; LOHR, STEVE; ROCHE, GERARD R

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



411 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Voters;
These Voters Want Change, But Don't Have a Candidate

BYLINE: By MARTIN GOTTLIEB

 BODY:
Like most everyone at the Northeast Bronx Senior Citizens Center, Anita Sollino did not bother to vote in New York's Presidential primary on Tuesday, even though she has been a Democrat for more than 50 years.
"I'm a registered Democrat," Mrs. Sollino said over a card game on Thursday, "but that doesn't mean I vote Democratic. I vote for the man." 
 And Mrs. Sollino, like many at the center for the elderly, said that the Democratic candidates as well as the general state of the country left them cold.
 
Conversations About Crime
 Mrs. Sollino, 74, lives in a Bronx enclave of earnestly maintained homes and mom-and-pop shops where the clock seems to have stopped on V-J Day. The problems of urban blight, poverty and crime more recently associated with the Bronx are spoken about rather than experienced here for the most part, and the buzz on the streets is relaxed.
And in this neighborhood of civil servants, unionized blue-collar workers, housewives and retirees, there is a strong sense that no candidate on the national political scene -- Democrat or Republican -- is fully addressing their concerns.
In the primary, the vote in communities like this one -- white, largely working-class and Catholic -- was light and inconclusive. Unofficial tallies indicate that just under 25 percent of the registered Democrats voted in this part of the north Bronx, with Mr. Clinton getting a plurality, if not a clear majority, of the vote in most neighborhoods.
But come the general election, Mrs. Sollino's community -- the adjoining Country Club and Pelham Bay neighborhoods -- will be a prime battleground for President Bush and his Democratic opponent. Crossing party lines in presidential elections is a tradition in these neighborhoods. Post-primary interviews with residents indicated that the recessionary economy and issues like crime, Social Security and welfare weigh heavily, and many voters do not know which party's lever they will turn in November.
These are neighborhoods filled with longtime Democrats who deserted their party in the 1980's to vote for Ronald Reagan and, to a lesser extent, George Bush.
In exit polls taken throughout New York State during last week's Democratic primary, 15 percent of voters said they cast ballots for President Bush in 1988. But in the 75th Assembly District, where Mrs. Sollino lives, Mr. Bush collected 43 percent of the vote four years ago, even though only 18 percent of the voters were registered Republicans.
Whether Mr. Bush can do that well again in Mrs. Sollino's and similar neighborhoods in November is a crucial question. "That's still the battleground where you're fighting to win, particularly in the big states," said Charles Black, a senior adviser to the Bush campaign.
Stanley B. Greenberg, a strategist and pollster for Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, has made a specialty of studying Reagan Democrats, and the Clinton platform was crafted with a clear eye toward them. It stresses broad national themes like an improved economy and national health care, rather than subsidized housing and anti-poverty programs targeted to the inner city.
The debate over what motivates such voters and how to win their approval is sharp and divided. "If everything's equal, they're going to be Democrats, so you use issues to show the difference between the Democrats and the Republicans and you try to draw them over," Mr. Black said.
For the Bush campaign, he said, that means laying the blame for the poor economy on the doorstep of the Democratic Congress rather than at the White House, and stressing Mr. Bush's conservative social agenda, including his opposition to abortion and flag burning, support for prayer in public schools and disdain for what Mr. Black calls "the A.C.L.U. agenda."
Several political analysts and Democratic strategists maintain that the Republican appeal succeeds largely by provoking racial fears and opposition to social programs that benefit the urban poor, most of whom are black and Hispanic. But these analysts also think that conservative white Democrats can be wooed back to a national Democratic standard-bearer.
"They do identify with New Deal politics that were universalistic," said John H. Mollenkopf, professor of political science at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "They do believe in government and government being able to solve problems if it's their problems rather than somebody else's."
 
'A Rude Awakening'
 After all, Mr. Mollenkopf said, "I think they got a rude awakening in the '80's from the Reagan Administration. Think of the auto workers who went for Reagan."
It seems that many Democratic voters in the northern Bronx agree with Mr. Black's characterization of them as socially conservative at the same time that they agree with Mr. Mollenkopf's characterization that they would support broad social programs as long as they benefit from them. What they are usually uncertain about is how they will vote in November.
"I think it's very much in flux," said Kevin Phillips, the political strategist and author who identified the transitional Democratic vote that bolstered Mr. Reagan in the 1980's. "The economy is obviously a major part of it," Mr. Phillips said, "but beyond that George Bush does not have the cultural appeal to the various types of Reagan Democrats. 'Skull and Bones' doesn't make it at the end of the subway line."
But Mr. Bush might take solace from the sentiment of voters like Frank Mallozzi, a retired furrier who long ago switched his party affiliation from Democrat to Independent. "I'm going to be pretty picky," Mr. Mallozzi said. "I may even go for Bush."
But economic hard times and general disillusionment are pushing other voters in the Country Club and Pelham Bay neighborhoods in the opposite direction. William J. Formisano, a Democrat whose family has run Yore Butcher's on Crosby Avenue for 20 years, said that even though he broke with his party to vote for Mr. Reagan in 1984 and Mr. Bush in 1988, he voted for Mr. Clinton on Tuesday and may well do the same in the fall.
"I might, just for a change," he said. "I voted for Reagan back then because it was going good, and Bush was moving in the same way."
Within the last year, however, he said, his business was off from 20 to 40 percent because of the recession.
A friend of Mr. Formisano, John Rodolico, 40, a bus driver and registered Democrat who did not make it to the polls last week, said he would "like to see somebody different" from Mr. Bush in the White House He said that despite the controversies about Mr. Clinton's private life, he liked the candidate, especially his pro-death penalty stance.
 
Bakeries and Fish Stores
 Bakeries, fish stores and small shops line Pelham Bay's main commercial thoroughfare, Westchester Avenue, and the nearby streets hum with activity. Still, the economic slowdown and its effects crop up often in conversations. Across the street from Mr. Formisano's shop is George's Coffee Shop, a neighborhood fixture in one incarnation or another for 66 years. George Baboukis, the owner and a registered Republican, said his business had dropped 20 percent in a year, the worst slump in a decade. As a result, he said, "this time we are looking for change -- this time you have to go Democratic."
Such support might make it seem that this is the Democrats' year in the northeast Bronx. But that would ignore a disillusionment about politics in general and often about the Democratic Party and its candidates, "I'm a Democrat," said Louis Puccio, 69, a retired cabinet maker, "but who's ever running the Democratic Party, I have no faith in them."
 
'Don't Like the Candidates'
 Michael DeMarco, the neighborhood's longtime City Councilman, understood the sentiment. "Normally you would get a strong Bush feeling," Mr. DeMarco said, "but because of the economy you're not getting the strong Bush feeling. But on the other hand, the people here are not sure they want to go Democratic because they don't like the candidates."
He said that he was only the 30th Democrat to vote when he came to his polling place at 6 o'clock Tuesday night. Usually, he said, about 120 voters would have passed through by that time in any primary.
Among many on the streets and at the senior citizens' center, talk of politics gradually shifts to talk of issues the Republicans hope to capitalize on, namely welfare and crime.
"The welfare in New York is draining us dry," said Rudy Seemayer, who had been a customer and field service representative for R. H. Hoe, a printing machinery company. "There are a lot of liberals like Cuomo who just give the country away while they sit on their thrones."
Others, many children of immigrants, wonder why welfare recipients cannot do what their parents did -- succeed without public assistance. "They should do something," Mr. Puccio said. "My father, he built Orchard Beach," a New Deal public works project. Similar projects should be carried out today and welfare recipients should be required to work on them as a condition of aid, Mr. Puccio and several friends agreed.
 
Talk of Race
 Talk of race, at least with an outsider, was muted. "You're going to have racism, I don't care where you go," said Mr. Mallozzi, the retired furrier. He and others acknowledged that a black person moving into the Country Club neighborhood would have a hard time being accepted by many.
Turning these conflicting feelings into votes may well be the most important political battle of the year. In 1984, Mr. Reagan won New York State by more than a half-million votes. In 1988, Mr. Bush lost by more than a quarter-million votes. In large part that came about because 117,000 Democrats and Independents in New York City who had voted for Mr. Reagan did not support Mr. Bush, according to Mr. Mollenkopf's analysis.
This time who prevails will depend in part upon voters like Mr. Mallozzi -- voters who are troubled and confused. "I'm all mixed up with everything," he said. "It seems it doesn't matter who gets in. I'd like them to be a little more caring for people, the people like me -- I'm comfortable, but I'm not rich."
Pay no attention to his and similar concerns, he said, and "you're gonna have the old feudal system -- rich and poor and no more middle class."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Louis Puccio/Retired cabinet maker, with his wife, Teresa: "I'm a Democrat, but who's running the Democratic Party, I have no faith in them."; William J. Formisano/Butcher: Said he voted for Gov. Bill Clinton on Tuesday and may again in the fall. "I might, just for a change." (Photographs by John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. 1); George Baboukis/Coffee shop owner and Republican: He said his business had dropped 20 percent in a year, the worst in a decade. "This time we are looking for change -- this time you have to go Democratic," he said. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times) (pg. 33)
 
Map: "Crossover Votes: Where Bush Benefited," shows results of analysis of non-Republicans voting for George Bush in the 1988 Presidential in New York City (Source: From a study by John H. Mollenkopf, City University Graduate Center) (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (57%); NORTHEAST BRONX SENIOR CITIZENS CENTER (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST BRONX SENIOR CITIZENS CENTER (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VOTER BEHAVIOR US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AGING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GOTTLIEB, MARTIN GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1992



412 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Peruvian Official Assails Pressure From U.S.

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 11

 BODY:
In an interview before his departure for talks in Washington, Peru's Foreign Minister bitterly criticized the Bush Administration for putting pressure on other governments to isolate President Alberto Fujimori, who seized broad power last Sunday in what many people are calling a civil-military coup.
The Foreign Minister, Augustino Blacker Miller, said in the interview late Friday night that Mr. Fujimori's action had wide popular support among Peruvians and wondered how the United States could be so "naive" as to lump Peru's situation with the military takeover in Haiti last year. 
 "We feel that if we have the support of the Peruvian population, eventually we will get the support of the world because the world cannot deny the fact that this is not a dictatorship when you have 90 percent of popular support," the Foreign Minister said.
Late Sunday, President Fujimori dissolved Congress and the judiciary, arrested more than two dozen members of Congress and suspended the Constitution. He said the actions were necessary to confront severe challenges from Maoist Shining Path guerrillas and drug traffickers as his Government tries to address dire economic problems. He has promised to restore democracy and free elections under a new constitution.
United States officials have condemned the move as a coup and cut off all but humanitarian aid to the Fujimori Government. On Friday President Bush said he would support submitting Peru to "outside pressure," including economic sanctions, to promote a return to democracy.
Behind the United States pressure is concern that Mr. Fujimori's actions could set a dangerous precedent for other Latin countries at a time when the continent is enjoying broad democratic rule for the first time in decades.
The Organization of American States on Monday is to hold an emergency meeting on the Peruvian situation. Mr. Blacker Miller is scheduled to present the Peru's case at the meeting.
The Foreign Minister said he was encountering an intense effort by the United States to dissuade Latin and European Governments from showing any support for what he described as Mr. Fujimori's attempt to "create a real democracy in Peru."
He added that strains in the relationship between Peru and the United States in recent months over anti-drug efforts prompted the Fujimori Government not to warn officials in Washington of its intention to seize broad powers.
The Peruvian Foreign Minister traced strains in the relationship with Washington to the San Antonio summit meeting of seven countries on drugs in February, at which the United States pressured Lima to accept tougher drug interdiction measures.
Since the takeover, those strains have only increased. The Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, Bernard W. Aronson, arrived in Lima the day Mr. Fujimori announced his seizure of power. Fuming, Mr. Aronson canceled a meeting with Mr. Fujimori and returned to Washington.
Mr. Blacker Miller said that while every approach to the United States for help and understanding since the coup has been rebuffed, he has met with a more tolerant reception in Europe and Japan. "The reaction in Europe is, 'We believe you are confronting extraordinarily difficult odds in your fight to proceed with development and therefore we are not going to cry wolf until we see that you are not meeting your promises,' " he said.
Tired, and obviously concerned about the outcome in Washington, the Peruvian Foreign Minister said the seizure of power early this week had been planned for more than two months.
"When you are looking at things from the frying pan it is hard to believe that they could look any worse," he said. "When you are in the frying pan and others are holding the pan, you are the one who is burning, not they."
Mr. Blacker Miller said that he had advised Mr. Fujimori earlier that if radical changes were not made soon the situation with terrorism, a stagnant economy and drug trafficking could get so bad that "we might have a real military coup by the end of the year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; PUBLIC
OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COUPS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); DRUG INTERDICTION (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); DRUG POLICY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BLACKER MILLER, AUGUSTINO (MIN);
FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1992



413 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Peruvian Official Assails Pressure From U.S.

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 11

 BODY:
In an interview before his departure for talks in Washington, Peru's Foreign Minister bitterly criticized the Bush Administration for putting pressure on other governments to isolate President Alberto Fujimori, who seized broad power last Sunday in what many people are calling a civil-military coup.
The Foreign Minister, Augustino Blacker Miller, said in the interview late Friday night that Mr. Fujimori's action had wide popular support among Peruvians and wondered how the United States could be so "naive" as to lump Peru's situation with the military takeover in Haiti last year. 
 "We feel that if we have the support of the Peruvian population, eventually we will get the support of the world because the world cannot deny the fact that this is not a dictatorship when you have 90 percent of popular support," the Foreign Minister said.
Late Sunday, President Fujimori dissolved Congress and the judiciary, arrested more than two dozen members of Congress and suspended the Constitution. He said the actions were necessary to confront severe challenges from Maoist Shining Path guerrillas and drug traffickers as his Government tries to address dire economic problems. He has promised to restore democracy and free elections under a new constitution.
United States officials have condemned the move as a coup and cut off all but humanitarian aid to the Fujimori Government. On Friday President Bush said he would support submitting Peru to "outside pressure," including economic sanctions, to promote a return to democracy.
Behind the United States pressure is concern that Mr. Fujimori's actions could set a dangerous precedent for other Latin countries at a time when the continent is enjoying broad democratic rule for the first time in decades.
The Organization of American States on Monday is to hold an emergency meeting on the Peruvian situation. Mr. Blacker Miller is scheduled to present the Peru's case at the meeting.
The Foreign Minister said he was encountering an intense effort by the United States to dissuade Latin and European Governments from showing any support for what he described as Mr. Fujimori's attempt to "create a real democracy in Peru."
He added that strains in the relationship between Peru and the United States in recent months over anti-drug efforts prompted the Fujimori Government not to warn officials in Washington of its intention to seize broad powers.
The Peruvian Foreign Minister traced strains in the relationship with Washington to the San Antonio summit meeting of seven countries on drugs in February, at which the United States pressured Lima to accept tougher drug interdiction measures.
Since the takeover, those strains have only increased. The Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, Bernard W. Aronson, arrived in Lima the day Mr. Fujimori announced his seizure of power. Fuming, Mr. Aronson canceled a meeting with Mr. Fujimori and returned to Washington.
Mr. Blacker Miller said that while every approach to the United States for help and understanding since the coup has been rebuffed, he has met with a more tolerant reception in Europe and Japan. "The reaction in Europe is, 'We believe you are confronting extraordinarily difficult odds in your fight to proceed with development and therefore we are not going to cry wolf until we see that you are not meeting your promises,' " he said.
Tired, and obviously concerned about the outcome in Washington, the Peruvian Foreign Minister said the seizure of power early this week had been planned for more than two months.
"When you are looking at things from the frying pan it is hard to believe that they could look any worse," he said. "When you are in the frying pan and others are holding the pan, you are the one who is burning, not they."
Mr. Blacker Miller said that he had advised Mr. Fujimori earlier that if radical changes were not made soon the situation with terrorism, a stagnant economy and drug trafficking could get so bad that "we might have a real military coup by the end of the year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; PUBLIC
OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COUPS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); DRUG INTERDICTION (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); DRUG POLICY (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BLACKER MILLER, AUGUSTINO (MIN);
FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1992



414 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: POINT COUNTERPOINT ON I.B.M.

 BODY:
In an article on the Forum page on March 22, Webster Brown, a former engineer with International Business Machines Corporation, wrote about his 26 years with I.B.M.
He told of how the optimism with which he signed on in 1964 for what probably would be a lifetime career eroded to the point that two years ago he took voluntary retirement at the age of 54. He said he feared that had he stayed at the company, he would be weeded out by an employee appraisal system "which gets tougher each year, that seems designed to sweep the company clean of employees who, however loyal and competent, no longer fit in at I.B.M." 
 He accused I.B.M. of initiating a "psycholgoical reign of terror" over employees under the guise of quality improvement.
"In its relentless pursuit of excellence," he wrote, "I.B.M., like many other American enterprises under competitive siege in recent years, has turned from a challenging and caring employer to one ruled by fear and intimidation. Benevolence has become malevolence. People once praised for their excellence now fear for their jobs."
Many readers wrote in response to Mr. Brown's. Last Sunday, Sheldon I. Kurtz, a specialist in employee outplacement in the computer industry, chided Mr. Brown for complaining, considering what Mr. Kurtz saw as I.B.M.'s generosity.
"How unfortuante is it," Mr. Kurtz asked, "that Mr. Brown . . . received in his early retirement program two years of full salary, a lifetime pension elgibility, free health care for himself and his spouse plus many other company-paid benefits?"
Following are a response from Mr. Brown, and a sampling of some of the other letters about the article.
 
Cynicism on a Platter
To the Editor:
There is an aspect to the recent I.B.M. decision to order supervisors to rate 5 to 10 percent of their employees as unaceptable that makes the policy it particularly cynical, perhaps illegal.
The laws on collecting unemployment benefits in New Jersey, at least, provide that an employee who is laid off as part of a company slowdown is entitled to immediate listing, while an employee who is fired for unsatisfactory work must wait several weeks before going on the unemployment rolls, and one who quits to avoid the stigma of being fired may never qualify for benefits at all. And of course, one who retires forfeits any claim.
In addition, a company's unemployment insurance payments are based on a rating of its layoff history. Calling layoffs by other names would keep I.B.M.'s unemployment insurance rating artificially high, and premiums down accordingly.
So if I.B.M. can avoid layoffs by convincing previously acceptable but now "excess" employees to retire or quit, I.B.M. gains nicely, at the expense of employees.
 
NAHUM BACHRACH
River Edge, N.J., March 22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (94%); IBM (NYSE) (94%); IBM (LSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INSURANCE COMPANY RATINGS (63%); INSURANCE (63%); 

PERSON: BACHRACH, NAHUM WEBSTER BROWN (91%); SHELDON I KURTZ (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1992



415 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Local United Way Trying to Provide Answers

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
"IN the light of all the excesses I've been reading about, I'd think twice now about giving to United Way," Selma Crowe of Harrison, the owner of a mail-order gift business, said recently. "I always assumed most of the money they collected went to help the needy, not to make their executives rich."
It is not known how many potential donors to the United Way of Westchester and Putnam Counties share that sentiment, but its president, Ralph Gregory, acknowledges that it is a concern. "People want to know about our financial structure," Mr. Gregory said. "The big question is, 'Where is my money going?' We're trying to give answers." 
 The president of United Way of America, William Aramony, was forced to resign in February after it was disclosed that he received a $463,000-a-year salary and a generous expense account. And last weekend the national organization's new management released a report that outlined an extensive pattern of financial manipulation over a five-year period.
 
A Review of Salaries
 Closer to home, Betty Beene, who heads the United Ways of Tri-State, has called for a review of the salaries paid to executives by other nonprofit organizations, for purposes of comparison with United Way salaries here. Ms. Beene earns $240,000 a year and receives an expense account and other benefits like a pension plan and health insurance. Her organization represents 35 affiliates in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey, which last year raised $193 million in drives at 1,000 companies.
But it is not only the United Way that is worried about how the recent disclosures will affect contributions to the charity.
"I don't know what we'll do if we don't get funding from United Way this year -- we will probably have to close," said Mary Gaines, director of the Nepperhan Community Center in Yonkers.
"Last year we got $65,000, and still we were stretched to the limit," she said. "In these hard times, more people need our help. The United Way money is our core. With it, we can leverage other funds from the county and the city of Yonkers for our programs."
Asked about the impact on contributions, Mr. Gregory said: "We honestly don't know yet. We'll know more when our 1992 drive starts in a few months. Certainly, a lot of questions are being asked of us, but the people asking them haven't been hostile. They are honestly looking for information, and we are making an effort to be open with them."
In the light of the newest developments, the release of a 59-page report on Mr. Aramony's activities over the last five years, Mr. Gregory said: "The report has been issued to all our board members. They all want to have the opportunity to read it fully before we meet on April 22 to decide whether or not we will pay dues to United Way of America."
Mr. Gregory, a former social worker, earns $108,000 a year.
He agreed with Ms. Beene's decision to subject executive compensation to scrutiny and said that "the study will be released when our salaries come up for review." Ms. Beene's salary will be reviewed in June and Mr. Gregory's in September.
United Way of Westchester and Putnam raised $14.9 million in the 1990-1991 fiscal year, Mr. Gregory said, and spent just less than $2 million for all its management and general costs, "which includes everything, such as salaries, rents, telephone, etcetera." The White Plains-based charity paid $127,000 to United Way of America for promotion, administration and advertising.
 
Advertising Campaign Planned
 Michael Barclay has been a United Way volunteer for 40 years and president of the Mamaroneck chapter for 8 years. To combat the recent negative publicity, Mr. Barclay said, a local United Way advertising campaign will begin shortly.
"It will deal candidly with such things as the local agency's finances and a report on where the money goes," Mr. Barclay said. "We are a completely autonomous organization, and we want to let the public know our purpose."
Mr. Gregory's duties include providing administrative assistance to the United Way Board and its volunteer committees. The United Way Board, which is headed by William M. Mooney, senior vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank in White Plains, is the group that allocates United Way funds to 130 local organizations.
Many of the organizations, like the Nepperhan Community Center, have long relationships with United Way. Since its founding 50 years ago, the center has received funds from United Way and its predecessor, the Community Chest, for programs that have made "a big difference in the lives of the people here," Mrs. Gaines said.
 
Unsure of the Damage Done
 In Tuckahoe, the assistant director of My Sister's Place, Thea DuBow, said the $40,000 it receives from the United Way is used for a program in the schools that identifies and gives counseling to victims of domestic violence. "If our financing from United Way were reduced, the results would be tragic," Ms. DuBow said, "because our program reaches out to thousands of kids who have nowhere else to go."
Mr. Mooney, the United Way Board chairman, said: "Until donors get their questions answered, they are going to think twice about contributions. We won't know how much damage has been done until we start heavy-duty campaigning in the fall.
"But in the interim we will be sending volunteers and staff members around to area corporations to speak, and at the end of the day I think we will have the support of the corporations, especially since we have always enjoyed a good relationship with them."
Most of the contributions to United Way come from the workplace: from corporate donations and voluntary employee payroll deductions. Last year, United Way Tri-State raised $193 million from drives at more than 1,000 companies.
 
Reassurance on Westchester Unit
 The Ciba-Geigy Corporation in Ardsley is one contributing company. "United Way has always been our vehicle of choice for giving because of the efficient way they endow the various agencies in the community," said a spokeswoman, Lisa Robinson.
After the disclosures at the national level, Ms. Robinson said, Ciba-Geigy contacted the local United Way for information. "It seemed doubly unfortunate to us that their problems would adversely affect people in need," she said.
After being reassured that in Westchester the United Way "still functions completely autonomously, giving the funds they collect to local agencies," Ms. Robinson said, "we were satisfied and we will be making our corporate gift. However, we will be watching them carefully."
A strong critic of the way charitable organizations operate today is Milton Goldin, a fund-raising consultant in Tarrytown who works on a flat-fee basis in preparing and managing business plans for yearly fund drives and capital fund-raising campaigns at universities, hospitals and religious organizations. He objects to charitable organizations soliciting funds in the workplace.
 
Executive Salaries 'Are Ridiculous'
 "United Way residential individual gifts have been down for years," he said, "and that should tell you something. Yes, employees are still being strong-armed by their superiors on the job to give, because those superiors have to earn Brownie points with their superiors.
"It's a foolish mess, and the salaries of executives of these charitable organizations are ridiculous. They should be watching every penny, not paying themselves grandiose salaries. Where is the spirit of charity?"
When asked about employee participation, already eroded by the economy, Mr. Mooney said: "The fact that corporations match payroll deductions sits well with employees. And interestingly enough, we have found that in hard times people who have jobs are usually more generous in their contributions."
Mr. Goldin compared philanthropy today with what it was at the beginning of the century. "Today most charities are entertainments more than anything else," he said. "Rockefeller gave tremendous amounts to start medical schools and hospitals. Andrew Carnegie gave huge amounts to establish libraries. They were experimenting. They wanted to see what would work and then, only after the experiment was successful, did the Government take over the hospitals and libraries.
"Now we have a system in which the Government does the experimenting with programs," he added. "Then they hand them over to private citizens to keep supporting them. It's hugely stupid and ineffective."
 
Red Cross Appears Unaffected
 There has been some fear in fund-raising circles that United Way's troubles could affect the public's willingness to give to any charity.
But the American Red Cross chapter in Westchester recently held its major fund-raising event of the year, the Touch of Red Ball, and its spokeswoman, Barbara Rose, said, "We had 300 people, one of the highest attendance records ever."
The Red Cross spends no more than 10 cents of every dollar collected on administrative costs, she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Gregory, left, president of United Way of Westchester and Putnam Counties, with Robert T. Gebbia, executive vice president, at the charity's offices in White Plains. (pg. 24); (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (92%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (92%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PUTNAM COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (54%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



416 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 14; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: The Health Curriculum Keeps Growing

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA

 BODY:
"HOW many of you have heard about a situation where a big person tried to do things that are not right to a little person and that make that little person feel 'yucky' ?" Bernice Krehbiel asked a fidgeting class of second graders at the Roaring Brook Elementary School here.
Hands shot up in the room. "Like trying to give a child poison?" suggested one girl. "Isn't that called molestering?" asked another. "No, it's like when grown-ups touch people that are, like, younger than them and, like, you don't want to be touched but they do it anyway," volunteered another. 
 And so began a carefully led discussion on preventing child sexual abuse. Ms. Krehbiel, a nurse-teacher, discussed a child's right to say no to an adult and used a doll to illustrate the differences between "good," "bad" and "confusing" touches. She showed a film that featured puppets discussing how a friend's uncle touched her in private places and how bad that made the friend feel.
Preventing sexual abuse is only a small component of Ms. Krehbiel's health-education responsibilities. The week before, she taught fifth graders about AIDS prevention, using cups of water and drops of blue dye to illustrate how a virus enters the blood stream.
Soon, she will visit fourth-grade classrooms to talk about alcohol, tobacco, caffeine and marijuana. In the fifth grade, children will hear about the dangers of cocaine, crack, steroids and synthetic drugs like PCP. During the course of the year, Ms. Krehbiel will have covered numerous health subjects, from dental health to eating disorders.
Ms. Krehbiel asked the second graders to think about people that they could talk to and trust. She told them most of the adults they knew were good people, but that a few had something wrong with them that made them want to do undesirable things to children. She explained that such people needed to be helped. The class talked about parents and neighbors and baby sitters and coaches. They practiced yelling "No!" in unison.
 
State Sets the Agenda
 After 40 minutes, it was time for Ms. Krehbiel to move to another class. As she left, she handed out study sheets and reminded the children that the door to her office was always open if anybody wanted to talk about the subject some more.
The health education that youngsters are receiving at Roaring Brook Elementary School is both standard and exceptional. It is standard, because the State Department of Education has mandated that certain subjects (including lessons in preventing sexual abuse and teaching about AIDS) be taught in the schools. It is exceptional because Chappaqua is one of a dwindling number of school districts that can afford to employ a certified school nurse-teacher, a professional who is a registered nurse and also holds a teaching certificate.
While each school district is required to have a school nurse, the ones without teaching certification can dispense health services but cannot teach in the classroom.
Though the state requires that a certain range of health subjects be taught to students from kindergarten through 12th grade, it leaves the curriculum and its implementation to each district.
The state requires that 11 broad areas be covered: human growth and development, emotional health, nutrition, environmental health, family-life education, diseases and disorders, consumer health; alcohol, tobacco and other drugs; safety, first aid and survival; community health, and healthy life styles.
But while each district is mandated to have a health coordinator, the actual teaching may be left to a variety of sources, including athletic directors, assistant superintendents, science teachers or general classroom teachers.
"It's a real mixed bag in Westchester," said Barbara LaPilusa, regional coordinator of the Health Education and Services Network for the Board of Cooperative Education Services (Boces). "It would be optimal to have a health coordinator with a health background and have them teach two or three classes a day. But because of our economic situation, most schools can't have that person full time."
 
Teachers Are 'Already Stressed'
 Experts in health education worry that without the personnel, many subjects are simply not being taught in the schools regardless of the state mandate. Classroom teachers are already overloaded with curriculum requirements and many have little training and are also not comfortable with some of the subject matter that needs to be covered.
"It's very difficult for teachers to include health education in their classrooms," said Marsha L. Henderson, a certified school nurse at the Crompond Elementary School in Yorktown and the past president of the New York State Association of School Nurses. "They are already stressed. It is really up to the district to give health education a priority, and right now some districts are doing better than others," she said.
Evaluating the success of health education is difficult, in part because New York State has no standardized tests to ascertain whether children have mastered the required topics. Further, the ultimate goal in much of health education -- a change in life style -- is difficult to measure.
Grace Stevens, associate in School Health Education at the New York State Department of Education, said: "It is very hard to measure attitudes and behaviors. You can show knowledge, but that doesn't mean we are going to cut down on rates of teen pregnancy. In math they need to know that two plus two is four, but it's not impacting on their life style. What makes health so different is that kids can have all the knowledge in the world, but if they are not adopting the behaviors, the knowledge is useless."
Responding to the conflict between the increasing amount of health education mandated by the state and the dwindling school budgets and uneven teaching resources that most districts must cope with, experts in the field are now exploring a new and more global approach to the subject.
The New York State Department of Education has developed "The Comprehensive School Health and Wellness Initiative," an encompassing approach to teaching health. In this strategy, health education is not only the job of the school nurse or the health teacher but also the purview of the physical education staff, the food services staff, the guidance counselors, the classroom teachers and everyone else involved in a child's education, including parents.
The state has developed a training model of this type of approach that it is offering to districts. Ms. Stevens said it began training districts in January 1991 and will have trained 19 districts by this June.
 
Multiple Messages Stressed
 "We have to get away from seeing health as either instruction or health services," Ms. Stevens said. "Those are only two parts of the big picture. We need to think of health on entirely different terms. You can't just do a semester of health education and expect to change life styles. You have to give multiple messages through multiple channels," she added.
At Boces, health-education specialists are developing a sample curriculum that will integrate health topics into other subjects. For instance, in one guide for a high school economics class, students will look at the high cost of AZT, one of the major drug therapies for AIDS, rather than looking at the economics of the gross national product. Lessons suggest including an HIV link to language arts, social studies or English.
"For instance, as they study poetry, students could read about AIDS instead of reading and writing about trees in the forest," Ms. LaPilusa said.
Even on an elementary level important health messages can be integrated, Ms. LaPilusa said. In physical education, she said, rather than emphasizing competitive sports, teachers can promote lifetime fitness and teach aerobics instead of archery.
 
'There Has to Be a Big Picture'
 "There has to be a big picture," Ms. LaPilusa said. "These lessons have to be more integrated into the curriculum because there are too many mandates, and teachers do not have the time to teach them separately. But children do have to get the message. One thing we know is that if kids aren't healthy, they can't learn," she said.
That is something that Ms. Krehbiel, the nurse-teacher, knows all too well. She has seen children with nervous systems so raw that they jump at school bells or become overwhelmed by such common school experiences as riding the bus or attending an assembly. She knows that children who come into her office with stomachaches and headaches are often simply suffering from stress -- whether it is from excessive pressure to do well, from living in dysfunctional families or simply from living in a world where learning about AIDS and child abuse are part of their everyday reality.
"The turmoil that some of these little ones have is scary," Ms. Krehbiel said. "We see small children coming through with such high levels of anxiety. They need coping mechanisms, they need to learn how to reduce stress. Sometimes one of the most important parts of my job is just giving these children some reassurance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernice Krehbiel, a nurse-teacher, using doll at Roaring Brook Elementary School to illustrate her lesson on sexual abuse. (Suzanne DeChillo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); STEROIDS (74%); CANNABIS (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); CAFFEINE & HEALTH (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); COCAINE (69%); EATING DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, KATE STONE BERNICE KREHBIEL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



417 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 14; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Face Lift for Galleria in White Plains

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
LIKE many shopping centers of its vintage, the Galleria at White Plains has begun to show its years. The 880,000- square-foot enclosed mall in the heart of the city's urban downtown area is due for a face lifting, say its owners, who are planning to spend $8 million on the project.
"Times change," said Gerald M. Cope, a Philadelphia architect who has been hired to design changes for the mall, which was completed in 1980. "The Galleria is looking a bit tired. It needs to be more contemporary, more upbeat." Most shopping centers, the architect said, need refurbishing every 10 or 12 years to keep pace with shifts in marketing and consumer trends. 
Last week the White Plains Common Council approved the first phase of plans to renovate the Galleria's entrance on Main Street, a project that is to begin within a month.
Because the Galleria is a town center "in the true sense of the word and not standing in the middle of a field somewhere like a suburban mall," Mr. Cope said, his plans attempt to address two needs: to blend the design of the entranceway with the surrounding downtown area and at the same time adorn it with lanterns and display windows to call attention to the shops inside.
 
Other Malls Announced
 Long-range plans call for renovation of another entrance on Grove Street, a new color scheme and fresh landscaping inside the mall, reglazing existing skylights to allow more natural light to shine through, new flooring throughout the mall and increased seating in the Food Court for the estimated 12,000 customers who visit the mall each day.
The Galleria's face lifting coincides with recent announcements that developers of two proposed shopping centers in White Plains have finally received financing for their projects and are planning to begin construction this year. Developers for a third project are optimistic that their plans will proceed once financing is obtained.
Although James L. Czech, president of the real estate investment and management group in Chicago that manages the Galleria, said the threat of competition posed by the new malls had not influenced his company's decision to revamp the shopping center, merchants here welcomed news of the renovation.
"If they don't give this place a better look, it's going to go downhill, and we will lose our customers," said Atonio Calero, owner of the Hairstylist, a beauty salon that has been in the Galleria since it opened.
 
Making a Good First Impression
 "The mall is so old looking," said Daneen Harrison, a saleswoman at T-Shirts Plus. "It's so dark and boring compared to Danbury Fair Mall."
Agreeing with the merchants, Mr. Cope said, "The whole architecture needs to be lighter and lacier, like a backdrop, so the stores can sparkle."
"In malls, first impressions are terribly important," he added. "And shoppers today are very discerning."
Despite competition from newer regional malls in Connecticut and New Jersey, and despite the impact of the recession, which has hit the retail sector of the economy especially hard, Mr. Czech, president of J.M.B. Retail Properties Corporation, said the Galleria maintained a 90 percent occupancy rate last year and its 150 stores have continued to average about $405 a square foot yearly in revenues.
"That's a very healthy number," said Mr. Czech, whose company manages 93 malls in the United States. "The Galleria continues to be in the top five malls in the country" in terms of sales per square foot.
"We read a lot about an economic downturn, and some tenants may not be thriving," he said. "But in general, sales at malls remain strong, despite the outside forces."
Shopping centers, an expert in the field agreed, appear to be somewhat recession proof. "Malls aren't built in reference to a specific economic environment; they are in it for the long haul," said Donald L. Pendley, director of public relations for the International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan.
The trade council's research confirmed that stores in the 37,975 shopping centers nationwide fared better than other retail establishments in the last several years. Overall retail sales for the country, Mr. Pendley said, were 2 percent better last year than in 1990, whereas retail sales in shopping centers averaged 3.5 percent higher during the period.
Surprisingly, the difficult economic climate has, in at least one way, helped merchants in shopping centers. Renovations of existing malls are taking place at an unprecedented pace because developers, faced with the reduced availability of loans for commercial real estate, are finding it difficult to obtain money to build new centers, Mr. Pendley said.
As more dollars are funneled back into aging malls and more emphasis is placed on the visual appeal of malls, retailers in shopping centers are reaping the benefits -- along with the landlord who usually gets a percentage of the sales after the tenant reaches a certain break-even point, Mr. Pendley said.
 
A Medium-to-Large Mall
 The Galleria, which is owned by Cadillac Fairview U.S., a Canadian-based consortium of pension funds, and J.M.B., is considered a medium-to-large mall. With its two anchor stores -- J. C. Penney and Abraham & Straus -- it is slightly larger than the Stamford Town Center, which occupies 875,000 square feet, but smaller than the Danbury Fair Mall, which has 1.3 million square feet.
The Galleria -- a mall where prices are generally in the upper-middle range -- has what Mr. Czech called "a broad-based appeal" for customers.
Of the three other malls that developers are planning to build here, one would be what is known as a power mall, with competitively priced goods, and the others would be fashion malls selling more expensive merchandise than is generally offered at the Galleria.
"If and when other malls come to White Plains," Mr. Czech said, "these renovations now will insure that we maintain the foothold and the type of customer base we have established here. I don't see us in competition."
 
Other Malls Will be 'More Upscale'
 At the Athlete's Foot, a sporting-goods store in the Galleria, the assistant manager, Lisa Azimi, said she was not worried about the possibility that two fashion malls might move nearby.
"The other malls are going to be more upscale," she said. "It's not a threat to us, because the average person from White Plains won't go over there to spend a couple of hundred dollars on a handbag. Those malls are going to be more for the Fifth Avenue types."
In addition to revamping the entrances and redesigning the interior of the mall, the developer is sharing with the city the costs of upgrading parking lots serving the mall.
The enclosed parking areas are owned by the city, which is responsible for maintaining and policing the area. The lots, with 2,815 metered parking spaces, are being repainted, and new lighting is being installed. The cost of the project is expected to be about $1.4 million.
 
Parking Lot Crime Called Minuscule
 "In the last couple of years, the city has been combating a perception problem, that the parking area is not safe," said Kevin D. Fish, director of the White Plains Parking Authority.
Although Mr. Fish said the crime rate in the lots was minuscule, he said the city was nevertheless installing high-pressure sodium lighting and more signs, "so people feel better."
With 50,000 cars using the lots each week, there is "only a car theft now and again, or maybe a car radio stolen," said Capt. James Harding of the White Plains Police Department.
 
A Look Back to the 1970's
 As the plans moved ahead last week for the Galleria and the proposed shopping centers, Mayor Alfred Del Vecchio looked back to the late 1970's when leaders here were debating whether to tear down an old courthouse to allow the mall to be built in its place.
"We decided then to take a decaying city center and revitalize it when other civic leaders were putting their malls on the outskirts of town," the Mayor said.
"Without development, White Plains would have been history," he said, "just another garbage pail on the map, like what happened to too many other downtown areas."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Floor areas and an escalator that will be changed during the Galleria's planned $8 million renovation. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: GALLERIA AT WHITE PLAINS (NY) FIRST IMPRESSION LITHOGRAPHY (51%); WHITE PLAINS COMMON COUNCIL (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLERIA AT WHITE PLAINS (NY) WHITE PLAINS COMMON COUNCIL (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); UNITED STATES (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUBURBS (78%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (63%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA DONALD L PENDLEY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



418 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 29; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: 116-Year-Old Company Thrives on Innovation

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
DESPITE 30 years of decline among Connecticut manufacturers, optimism reigns at Stanadyne Inc. in Windsor. To understand why, it helps to consider the company's history.
Many other Connecticut business are just starting to learn about diversification and international markets. But in 1947 the Hartford Machine Screw Company was adjusting to the slowdown in military contracts after the war and began making diesel-fuel injection pumps for cars and trucks. In the 1980's, with the number of American-made diesel-powered cars dwindling, the company, now called Stanadyne, started selling its injectors in Japan and Europe. 
 And as I.B.M. starts what it has heralded as a 1990's management innovation, spinning off small entrepreneurial units within the larger company, Stanadyne is readying the first in a series of products it developed through the same process, started three years ago. One is a unit to recycle antifreeze that can be used by operators of cab and bus fleets to reclaim 90 percent of what used to be thrown out. Another is a new type of oil pump for the Northstar 4.6-liter V-8 engine that will be used in the 1993 Cadillac Allante sports car.
 
'We're Here to Stay'
 "Within a relatively short time we got some products we think are going to do very, very well," said the director of power products at Stanadyne, Lee P. Janik.
The company's executive vice president, William D. Gurley, said, "We're here to stay."
The company's work force in Windsor, site of its largest installation, is going to grow significantly "over the next two to three years," he said. "We've actually been hiring over the last year, in some key skills."
Mr. Gurley said Stanadyne employed 2,250 people worldwide, about 950 of them in Windsor. Mr. Janik said the success of Stanadyne's manufacturing operation in Connecticut, a state where manufacturing has been on the wane, was propelled "by self-preservation."
Mr. Gurley said success was, "a matter of being able to recognize when you've got to do things differently, and then making the change." The company has "been willing to try things that are different," he said.
Brian V. Beaudin, senior vice president of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association and director of its Manufacturers' Council, said other companies will have to follow Stanadyne's example, if they hope to survive.
"There's a lot more innovation going on in manufacturing now, compared to three or four years ago," Mr. Beaudin said. "The defense business that has been the meat and potatoes of a lot of manufacturers is gone, so they're saying, 'How can I take the equipment I've got, and the processes I have, and do something else?' "
 
Proof of State's Strength
 Mr. Beaudin said that necessity often propelled manufacturing companies to become pioneers of new management styles. In the 1980;s manufacturers went through the efficiencies and cutbacks that banks and insurance companies are pursuing now, he said.
A spokesman for the State Department of Economic Development, Joseph Cohen, said Stanadyne "is proof that among Connecticut's strengths are its research and development capabilities and the transfer of technologies into new products." He added, "It's why we believe that, with its skilled labor forces and a history of innovation, Connecticut is going to come through these tough times with our jobs base and our business stronger than ever."
Hartford Machine Screw was established in 1876 to develop what became the first automatic screw machine. It produced screws for the sewing-machine industry and, in the late 1800's, a booming bicycle business. By the early 1920's it phased out production of standard screws and began manufacturing custom-designed ones, for businesses like nearby Pratt & Whitney, which used the screws in the first successful air-cooled aircraft engine.
During the military buildup before and during World War II the company prospered in the fastener business, but with the demand for fighter planes down after the war, it began to look to other markets. In 1947 it recruited Vernon Roosa, an inventor with an idea for a diesel-fuel injection pump. The following year it moved to the plant on 27 acres in Windsor, still its home.
The company's diesel-pump technology, including products like diesel filters and water separators, has been used in automotive, agricultural, and heavy-equipment engines. During the 1970's, when the fuel crisis curtailed gasoline supplies and domestic use of diesel engines climbed, the company expanded its Windsor plant and bought two others in North Carolina. The company's name, which had earlier been changed to Standard Screw, had now become Stanadyne, the "dyne" coming from dynamometer, a device for measuring an engine's power.
The same qualities that made diesels attractive during the fuel crisis make them better engines from an environmental perspective, Mr. Gurley said.
"If you're worried about global warming, diesels make more sense," he said, noting that diesel engines burn 30 to 40 percent less fuel than gasoline engines, with corresponding reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide.
 
Selling in Japan
 Diesel engines, Mr. Gurley said, last longer. The typical diesel car does not need major engine service for 150,000 miles, he said, and big trucks routinely go 500,000, get a rebuilding and proceed to 1 million miles.
When gasoline supplies eased in the 1980's, Americans wanted to return to the quicker pickup that a gasoline engine offers. So Stanadyne turned its attention to overseas markets, including Japan.
"We've seen nothing in that market in terms of the protection or the other barriers you read about," Mr. Gurley said. "We've only faced the usual rigors of competition -- quality issues, technical issues and value."
In 1988, with the help of investment bankers, a group of Stanadyne executives bought the company from the stockholders. The previous year the company established a foothold in Europe by buying a United Technologies plant in Brescia, Italy, and a business owned by Altecna, a division of Fiat.
"So if 'Fortress Europe' slams closed, which is looking less likely but could still be possible, we're now inside the European Economic Community and ready to expand our operations there," Mr. Gurley said.
But with its international operations growing, Stanadyne was facing a shrinking market at home. "We recognized that our business in the U.S. would be fairly flat," Mr. Janik said. "So we got together a small resource group of engineers, marketing people and so on, to do entrepreneurial work."
Recalling how Stanadyne got into the filter business 20 years ago, because no one else was making diesel-fuel filters sophisticated enough for its fuel pumps, the group started talking about other uses of filtering technology. Some members recalled hearing about the problem with spent antifreeze.
After long use in an engine, antifreeze is contaminated by sludge and other materials that rob it of its ability to keep the engine's temperature within strict limits. It had to be drained out, disposed of as hazardous waste and replaced.
The Stanadyne team designed a system that draws off ethylene glycol, the active ingredient in antifreeze, and leaves a sludge behind, Mr. Janik said.
Operating at its full capacity of 100 gallons a day, the $10,000 machine, which uses a process called reverse osmosis to cleanse the antifreeze, pays for itself in a year through reduced replacement cost for antifreeze, he said. The oil pump for the new Cadillac Allante is another example of the entrepreneurial group's work. "We got in line behind three others who wanted to provide that pump," Mr. Janik said. "But our design got us in the door."
Stanadyne's engineering group proved itself willing to make changes to accommodate different engine designs, he said.
"A couple of times the engineers would talk to Cadillac on the phone about some changes, come out here and set up and have the new part on the way to them the next day," Mr. Janik said.
Mr. Gurley said: "The business has changed over the years, and it's going through another transition now. I could claim it was vision, but it was really the realities of the market that pushed us to do what we've done throughout our history. And that's what's pushing us still."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Technician, top, at Stanadyne Inc., at a dynamometer control board as a diesel engine was tested. Above, Anthony Weston, an engineer, designing an antifreeze recycler unit. (Photographs by Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STANADYNE INC STANADYNE INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANADYNE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WINDSOR (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES HISTORY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); DIESEL FUEL (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (53%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



419 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2295 words

HEADLINE: Ultimate Insider, Ultimate Outsider

BYLINE: By Joseph Finder; Joseph Finder, the author of "The Moscow Club," a novel, and "Red Carpet: The Connection Between the Kremlin and America's Most Powerful Businessmen," writes frequently about international affairs.

 BODY:

THE CHAIRMAN
John J. McCloy: The Making of the American Establishment.
By Kai Bird.
Illustrated. 800 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $30. 
THE journalist Richard Rovere was once challenged to name the chairman of the Establishment, that predominantly WASP ruling class that for decades had steered American domestic and foreign policy. He pondered for a while. "Suddenly the right name sprang to my lips. 'John J. McCloy,' " Rovere declared. "My God, how could I have hesitated?"
It was a logical choice: John J. McCloy, the friend and adviser to nine Presidents, the Wall Street lawyer par excellence, the chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations (emblematic institution of the Establishment if ever there was one), the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ford Foundation and the Chase Manhattan Bank, the president of the World Bank, the virtual dictator of postwar Germany for three years as commissioner of occupied Germany, a member of the Warren Commission . . . and the resume goes on and on. Named in C. Wright Mills's influential 1957 book, "The Power Elite," as part of that group's "inner core," a lifelong Republican who did his most significant work for Democratic Presidents, McCloy was the behind-the-scenes power broker, the eminence grise who for years embodied the American governing class.
A short, stocky, bald, plain man, an unprepossessing figure, McCloy was, by most accounts, less than brilliant -- and yet, as Dean Acheson observed, he had "an expansive, happy nature with no littleness, suspicion or jealousy about it," as well as a knack for working easily with difficult personalities.
John J. McCloy had an extraordinary influence on the course of this century, but three years after his death at the age of 93 his name has been all but forgotten by the general public. "The Chairman" by Kai Bird, a contributing editor of The Nation, is the first biography of the man Harper's Magazine once called "the most influential private citizen in America." Although McCloy was said to have feared that this account -- 10 years in the making -- would be hostile, it is exhaustively researched and remarkably evenhanded.
The great paradox of McCloy's life was that the Establishment's chairman of the board was in fact born poor -- on the wrong side of the tracks, as he often put it. His strong-willed mother supported her family as a hairdresser, "doing heads" of Philadelphia society ladies. She managed to send her son to boarding school, Amherst College and Harvard Law School. The young McCloy seems to have been possessed of a genius for knowing which circles to move in. Affable and diligent, he gained entree to ranks of society from which he would have otherwise been excluded, in part by becoming a star tennis player.
McCloy, always keenly aware of being an outsider, was fond of relating an incident from his youth that came to attain an almost totemic resonance. As a college student, prompted by his mother, he walked up to the door of the Rockefeller mansion at Seal Harbor, Me., and asked for a job; the butler slammed the door in his face. Soon after, McCloy somehow managed to secure a position teaching sailing to the Rockefeller children, including Nelson and David, both of whom were later central to his career.
He became a well-regarded corporate attorney at several New York law firms and joined all the right clubs. Recruited to Washington by Franklin D. Roosevelt's Secretary of War, Henry Stimson, McCloy was eventually appointed Assistant Secretary of War. Like Woody Allen's Zelig, he seemed to turn up everywhere -- smoking cigars with Churchill amid the ruins of the House of Commons; consulting with Charles de Gaulle, George Patton and George Marshall; participating in the discussions over whether to drop the atomic bomb on Japan.
BEFORE then, it had fallen to him to make one of the most difficult decisions of World War II, certainly one of the most controversial decisions of his career. As Mr. Bird writes, he was responsible "more than any other individual" for getting the President to issue the infamous Executive Order 9066, calling for the resettlement of more than 100,000 Japanese-Americans from the West Coast to "relocation centers" (or, as Roosevelt more bluntly called them, "concentration camps"). McCloy justified the decision by proclaiming, "If it is a question of safety of the country, [or] the Constitution of the United States, why, the Constitution is just a scrap of paper to me."
Mr. Bird discloses, too, that at least as early as 1943 McCloy was one of the very few in Washington who had information about Hitler's proposed Final Solution and who had the power to do something about it. Yet he refused to believe that the Nazis were systematically exterminating the Jews. (As Mr. Bird points out, McCloy's skepticism was shared by, among others, Felix Frankfurter and Walter Lippmann, both Jews.)
As Stimson's liaison to the War Review Board, McCloy opposed a plan to bomb the railways leading to the death camps, on the ground that it would have diverted precious resources and would have been useless in any case. Mr. Bird maintains that it would have saved some 100,000 Jews at Auschwitz from being gassed, and that McCloy "bears substantial responsibility for this misjudgment." Whether the bombing would have saved these Jews remains a matter of fierce dispute.
In March 1945 Roosevelt greeted McCloy in the Oval Office with arm extended in a Nazi salute, saying, "Heil McCloy -- Hochkommissar fur Deutschland." McCloy declined the position, urging that Roosevelt pick a military man. But when Harry S. Truman offered him the same job four years later, he finally accepted, thus entering one of the most controversial periods of his long career.
AS High Commissioner for occupied Germany, McCloy granted clemency to dozens of Nazi war criminals. He freed, or reduced the sentences of, most of the 20 SS extermination squad leaders, whose crimes he freely conceded were "historic in their magnitude and horror." Of the 15 death sentences handed down at the Nuremberg trials, McCloy carried out a mere five. Of the remaining 74 war criminals who were sentenced at Nuremberg to prison terms, he let many go free -- most notoriously the industrialist Alfried Krupp, who had been sentenced at Nuremberg to 12 years in prison for using concentration camp inmates as slave labor. Krupp, accompanied by most of his board of directors, walked out of the Landsberg prison in 1951 to a cheering crowd and a champagne breakfast -- with his fortune and industrial empire intact.
Much of the world was outraged. "Why," Eleanor Roosevelt wrote to McCloy, "are we freeing so many Nazis?" The answer, Mr. Bird explains, was far from simple. For one thing, McCloy faced threats on his own life, and immense pressure from the German public and even from Pope Pius XII to grant a blanket amnesty -- "a well-organized conspiracy," McCloy recalled, "to intimidate me."
But the chief reason, according to Mr. Bird, was Realpolitik pure and simple, the Larger Considerations: the onset of the Korean War had made more important than ever a pro-American West Germany, rearmed and thus a bulwark against the Russians. The Truman Administration, and McCloy in particular, did not want to undermine our staunchest friend, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany. This meant, apparently, appeasing West German public opinion as much as possible and gaining the support of the most prominent West German industrialists. With the fate of the West in the balance, what did a few Nazi war criminals matter?
Moreover, Adenauer's men were not reluctant to use blackmail, telling McCloy that if the Nazis imprisoned in Landsberg were hanged, "Germany as an armed ally against the East was an illusion." As one I. G. Farben executive whom McCloy freed remarked acidly, "Now that they have Korea on their hands, the Americans are a lot more friendly."
After the war, and a quarter-century after the Rockefellers' butler had shut the door in McCloy's face, Nelson Rockefeller recruited McCloy as a name partner in the New York law firm of Milbank, Tweed (whose chief client was the Chase Bank). He was now officially in the Rockefeller fold. In time, the Rockefeller family made him chairman of Chase, with the implicit understanding that he was to groom the young David Rockefeller to take over.
Never rich himself, McCloy had become a reliable trouble-shooter for the rich. "His status in the company of such men of wealth was not that of an equal," Mr. Bird acutely points out, "but these uncrowned members of the American aristocracy depended upon his legal talents to insulate their wealth and social status from the uncertainties of a democratic republic."
By the late 1950's, when Richard Rovere identified him as the chairman of the Establishment, McCloy was regularly attending intimate stag dinners at the White House as a member of Dwight D. Eisenhower's "unofficial Cabinet." John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, both outsiders to the Establishment, recognized the importance of cultivating the chairman. As President Kennedy's disarmament adviser, McCloy negotiated the withdrawal of Soviet missiles from Cuba; he was one of the "Wise Men" recruited by McGeorge Bundy in 1965 to advise President Johnson on Vietnam policy (but really to secure Eastern Establishment backing for the war). Johnson, who felt awkward around patrician types, was told by Mr. Bundy (no stranger to the patriciate himself) that "the key to these people is McCloy," who "belongs to the class of people who take their orders from Presidents and nobody else." When McCloy and his friends in the Council on Foreign Relations refused to side publicly with the President on Vietnam, Johnson bitterly complained, "The Establishment bastards have bailed out."
Throughout the late 1960's and the 70's, McCloy continued to exert an enormous influence on American foreign policy. In 1979, when David Rockefeller and Henry Kissinger began pressing the Carter Administration to admit the deposed Shah of Iran to the United States for medical treatment (actually, for asylum), they asked McCloy to orchestrate the extensive lobbying effort. His motivations were not entirely disinterested: Milbank, Tweed provided legal counsel to the Shah, who also had billions of dollars on deposit with Chase. Every Christmas, the Shah sent his friend Jack McCloy five pounds of Beluga caviar.
The reputation of the American ruling elite barely survived the turmoil of the 60's, and late in his life McCloy came to be regarded increasingly as the Establishment archdemon, the master manipulator. His role in the Japanese internment and his role in the decision not to bomb Auschwitz were now seen in the unflattering light of historical revisionism.
Despite the range of John J. McCloy's accomplishments, one suspects that his name is little known today because he wanted it that way. He realized early on that the key to his influence was his lack of public visibility, and he ceded the limelight to the larger egos. Unlike some of his more flamboyant peers -- Stimson, Acheson, Frankfurter, Averell Harriman, Allen Dulles -- he wasn't a larger-than-life personality; he was, perhaps deliberately, ever the colorless lawyer. Unlike, say, Walter Lippmann, he was no intellectual. He was the earnest working-class boy who had, by dint of hard work, tireless public service and a not inconsiderable gift for schmoozing, managed to make his way into the Establishment's inner circle.
And it is here that "The Chairman" disappoints. We do not really get a sense of McCloy as a flesh-and-blood character; we aren't given the opportunity to explore the tensions, the sociological nuances, of the ultimate insider who was really the ultimate outsider -- the poor boy, as James Reston has written, who lived "most of his life among the rich." We see the paradoxes of his life, but we don't understand the contradictions within the man.
STILL, Mr. Bird's range of sources is quite impressive, including scores of interviews and hundreds of Government documents that were declassified under the Freedom of Information Act, and his assessments are judicious. Although "The Chairman" lacks the telling detail and anecdotal texture of another recent book that treats McCloy and his circle, "The Wise Men" by Walter Isaacson and Evan Thomas, it will certainly join the ranks of those accounts essential to a full understanding of how politics in this century was conducted behind the scenes.
In his last days, his power ebbing, McCloy had become a "jovial gnome," as Henry Kissinger once called him, with a trying "penchant for anecdotes." At the age of 86 he happily accepted an invitation to testify before a Congressional commission investigating the wartime internment of the Japanese-Americans, expecting the deference normally accorded an elder statesman. Instead he was attacked; when he described the conditions in the camps as "very pleasant," he was greeted with loud laughter from spectators at the hearing. This man who had made so many of the crucial decisions of a turbulent century, this symbol of the American Establishment, was now a relic of a bygone era.
Yet in the light of what we have lived through, at least since Watergate, it has become fashionable in certain circles to wax nostalgic for the good old days when our leaders who guided us into the American Century were drawn primarily from a close-knit social circle imbued with an ethic of public service and noblesse oblige. The mixed record of John J. McCloy may help temper that nostalgia, suggesting that perhaps, for all its many virtues, the American Establishment may have borne within itself the seeds of its own decline and fall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John J. McCloy, once called "the most influential private citizen in America," in 1960. (Elwood P. Johnson/Chase Manhattan Bank) (pg. 1); Richard Nixon and John J. McCloy in 1985 at McCloy's 90th birthday party. (Chase Manhattan Archives/From "The Chairman") (pg. 23); John J. McCloy, United States High Commissioner for Germany, right, with President Harry S. Truman, 1950. (Associated Press) (pg. 24)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: CHAIRMAN, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (66%); TENNIS (60%); SPORTS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); ATHLETES (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, JOSEPH; BIRD, KAI RICHARD NIXON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



420 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in: Bay Shore

BYLINE: By BRET SENFT

 BODY:
BAY SHORE is a hamlet of wealth alongside poverty -- of mansions on the Great South Bay waterfront a mile from low-income housing. Like many Long Island communities, its downtown was hard hit in the early 1960's by the opening of nearby shopping malls.
Residents say, however, that it offers quiet, well-kept streets, a respected school system and waterfront recreation. 
 To spur downtown business, the Town of Islip -- as an unincorporated area, Bay Shore is governed by and responsible to the town -- has created service roads and parking behind Main Street to ease traffic and rezoned downtown, reducing the commercial area and introducing residential. And a renewed popular spirit has helped stabilize the community.
"Bay Shore is going to re-happen," said Ken Turrisi, an architect-developer and 10-year resident.
Its history is rooted in large estates. John Mowbray bought most of what is now the eastern part of the hamlet from the Penataquit Indians in 1708. To the west, Stephen Van Courtlandt had built his Sagtikos Manor in 1692 in what is now West Bay Shore. Such large holdings were later subdivided, and housing developed on individual lots.
"That's why, today, you go anywhere off Main Street and see seven, eight houses in a row, and none are the same," said John G. Pullis, president of the Bay Shore Historical Society.
The community changed names several times: Penataquit to Sodom (briefly) to Mechanicsville. By the 1880's, it became Bay Shore, an apt description, and was a burgeoning resort town.
After World War I, however, rail service expanded and its grand hotels and boarding homes declined as tourists went east to the Hamptons or took the steamboat to Fire Island (Fire Island ferries still operate off the foot of Maple Avenue).
Energies shifted to entertainment and commerce. The Regent moviehouse opened on Main Street in 1915, as did a Vitagraph film studio on Fourth Avenue (its productions starred Fatty Arbuckle, Norma Tallmadge and Marie Dressler). In 1926, the ornate Bay Shore Theater opened on West Main, with both vaudeville and movies. In the 40's and 50's, downtown had a Sear's, a Loeser's, a Friedman's and thriving smaller businesses.
Manus H. O'Donnell, a 37-year resident and assistant school superintendent for personnel, recalled Main Street in the 50's: "Friday night was like Fifth Avenue on the Easter Parade. Really -- you had trouble moving along the sidewalks."
But the early 1960's brought a huge mall to Sunrise Highway: the 857,000-square-foot South Shore (with Macy's and J. C. Penney), where a 400,000-square-foot expansion is planned.Businesses and major supermarkets followed.
In the early 1970's, deinstitutionalized mental-health patients from nearby Central Islip and Pilgrim State Hospitals drifted to downtown; in 1977, Suffolk County's largest social-services center opened between Third and Fourth Avenues north of Main, providing welfare, Medicaid and parole programs.
OLD hotels (converted to single-room-occupancy residences) and shabby apartments above stores filled with welfare clients and former patients. Drug traffic and prostitution increased downtown. But recent meetings between business leaders and town councilmen have led to legislation calling for phasing out S.R.O.'s and apartments above stores along Main Street by January 1997. The Chamber of Commerce has noted a tenfold increase in attendance at such meetings in the last two years.
Away from the blighted downtown areas, housing prices range from $1 million-plus for waterfront estates to $150,000 for colonials around Southside Hospital and $125,000 for ranches and split-levels in northern and western sections, according to Lorraine Lovgren, owner of Century 21 on East Main Street and president of the Chamber of Commerce.
There are 1,313 rental apartments, 312 units in co-ops and just one condominium, the 128-unit Windermere, with two tennis courts and an outdoor pool. Its prices range from $179,000 for a two-bedroom unit to $250,000 for a five-bedroom.
Eric G. Ramsey Jr. Associates on West Main Street noted an increase in starter home sales. Although Ramsey specializes in waterfront properties, Mr. Ramsey said, "We're selling a lot of affordable housing in the $150,000 to $250,000 range."
Robert and Anne Marie Virgilio moved from Islip soon after their wedding in 1990 to a two-bedroom colonial in the Brightwaters Farms section west of downtown. Mr. Virgilio, who works at the New York Stock Exchange, commutes from Babylon, where the Long Island Rail Road's diesel service changes to electric.
"A lot of young families have bought into the area," he said. "During the summer, this is a great place to be. We have a boat. Docking in the town marina [with 503 slips, the largest on the South Shore] is tough to find, but you can get a slip at a private home."
There are about 350 slips at four private marinas, said Frank Mina, the owner of Shoreline Marina, and "hundreds more" privately owned.
Ervina Lew, a lifelong resident and writer who teaches in Brentwood, lives with her husband, Robert, in a high-ranch on Penataquit Point with a panoramic view of the bay. "The kids who grow up here, whether rich or poor, have the experience of knowing they are living in a microcosm of the real world," she said, and the waterfront "provides everyone with recreational opportunities usually reserved for the privileged."
The school district has 4,500 students in seven buildings: Three primary (grades K-2), two intermediate (3-5), Bay Shore Middle School on Brook Avenue (6-8), and Bay Shore High School on Third Avenue (9-12). Busing assures a racially and economically balanced school population. There is a dual Spanish/English language enrichment program taught to all K and first-grade children, reflecting the community's 12 percent (and growing) Hispanic population.
THE high school has a marching band that has won major county and state awards, an orchestra, a theater program and a full complement of sports. In 1989, the school district was one of 139, out of a statewide total of 740, chosen for a pilot program for the state's Excellence and Accountability Program to improve quality through community involvement and curriculum development.
St. Patrick's, a Roman Catholic elementary school on Main Street, offers K-8 education to the parish's 4,600 families.
New development includes construction of 13 units for the elderly by Mr. Turrisi, the developer, on the long-condemned Baybright Hotel site; conversion of the Bay Shore Movie Theater (closed since 1981) to the Great South Bay Y.M.C.A., with a pool, weight training room, gym, and pre-school, and development of the old Regent moviehouse -- for years a porno theater -- to a first-run cinema, whose adjacent adult bookstore is to be replaced by a walkway to town-built parking.
Main Street has, among other things, Muscles (a popular yogurt/fast food place), RSVP Tuxedos, Bay Shore Lighting and H.A. Kalt Boutique and Shoes, a local fixture since April 12, 1937. But most residents go to Sunrise Highway and its shopping complexes for goods and services. Fine waterfront restaurants include Porky & Glenn's at 24 Cottage Avenue, Captain Bill's on Ocean Avenue and Harbor House on Maple Avenue at water's edge.
Golf enthusiasts have three county and two town courses a short drive from Bay Shore.
Since 1987, a Community Forum has guided member civic associations in addressing local issues, such as reviewing plans for the former Bay Shore Drive-In site (soon to be a nine-acre Home Depot Center, with 19 acres as housing for the elderly or partial commercial use), or organizing an antidrug, midnight vigil along Second Avenue.
"It's empowerment of the people, working in harmony with the government, to bring about positive change in the community," said the forum president, Selwyn Powell.

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the houses on Cove Walk that have docks in their backyards; Bay Shore High School on Third Avenue. (Eddie Hausner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Gazetteer"
 
Population: 21,279 (1990 census).
 
Area: 5.3 square miles.
 
Median household income: $35,100 (1991 estimate).
 
Median price of one-family home: $141,400.
 
Property taxes on median-priced home: $3,500.
 
Median price of two-bedroom condominium: $150,000.
 
Median rent on two-bedroom apartment: $800.
 
Public school expenditure per pupil: $11,100.
 
Distance from midtown Manhattan: 43 miles.
 
Rush-hour commutation to midtown: 70 minutes by Long Island Rail Road; $8.75 one-way, $180 monthly.
 
Codes: Zip, 11706, area, 516.
 
Government: Town Supervisor (Frank R. Jones, Republican), elected to two-year term; four Council members, elected to four-year terms.
 
Captain Kangaroo and You: Among the guests at the Y.M.C.A.'s Jan. 18 dedication ceremony was Robert Keeshan, better known as Captain Kangaroo, a longtime former area resident who served as honorary chairman of the capital campaign organization. The building's west wing holds the Bob Keeshan Children's Center, providing a daytime preschool and, in the evenings, baby-sitting services.
 
Map of Bay Shore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CUSTOM DECORATING (50%); BAY SHORE HISTORICAL SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BAY SHORE HISTORICAL SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BAY SHORE (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FERRIES (79%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); ZONING (73%); HISTORY (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); WORLD WAR I (64%); RETAILERS (57%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: SENFT, BRET MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



421 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Newport, R.I.;
Meeting Needs At the Low End

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Abbott

 BODY:
THIS city is working with Rhode Island's housing agency and a private developer on a project of 30 one-family houses for first-time home buyers of low to moderate income.
Ground will be broken next month on the three-and-a-half-acre Beacon Street project, which should be completed within a year, said Bruce Bartlett, the city's director of Planning, Zoning and Development. 
 While housing prices have fallen because of the recession, most are still too high for most first-time buyers, he said.
In 1990, the median price of a one-family house in Newport was $140,250, according to the Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation, the state's housing agency. The average in 1990 was $183,118.
"I don't think you can find anything below $120,000," Mr. Bartlett said.
The 1990 census found a median income for a family of four here to be $34,490, he said, adding that the disparity between income and housing prices made Newport one of the least affordable of the state's Island's 39 cities and towns.
The Beacon Street houses, which will have at least two bedrooms, will sell for about $80,000, Mr. Bartlett said. Buyers must meet income guidelines set by the housing agency -- no more than $40,600 for a household of two and $46,690 for a household of three or more.
Half the units will be reserved for those who must meet income guidelines set by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, which are lower than the state's, Mr. Bartlett said. HUD's limits are $27,500 for a household of two and $30,450 for a household of three.
In 1989, the state housing agency gave the city a $527,000 land bank loan to buy the vacant site, which straddles Newport and neighboring Middletown. The interest rate is 3 percent, Mr. Bartlett said. The New England Affordable Housing Corporation, a local development firm, has agreed to buy the lots from the city and the city will use the proceeds of the sales to pay back the loan, he said.
The housing corporation will build and sell the houses, keeping the profits from the sales, Mr. Bartlett said.
Created by the Rhode Island General Assembly in 1973 with a mandate to create safe, decent housing for low- and moderate-income families, the Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corporation is a quasi-state agency that finances housing development through the sale of bonds and low-income tax credits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RHODE ISLAND HOUSING&MORTGAGE FINANCE CORP (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEWPORT (RI) UNITED STATES (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ZONING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); INCOME TAX (60%); CENSUS (55%); 

PERSON: ABBOTT, ELIZABETH BRUCE A BARTLETT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1992



422 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
As Many British Readers Relax on Saturdays, Their Newspapers Thrive

BYLINE: By SUZANNE CASSIDY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, April 12

 BODY:
With its circulation and advertising shrinking, the British press has found one surprising success story: Saturday newspapers. Once unpopular afterthoughts, Saturday newspapers are now selling more copies than their weekday counterparts and are challenging the weekend pre-eminence of the country's Sunday papers.
Over the last six years or so, Britain's five serious national dailies have expanded their Saturday papers, adding magazines and leisure and review sections that have won both readers and advertisers. 
 Save for The Financial Times, the serious broadsheet dailies have all lost circulation over the last year. But their editors say the losses would have been worse had they not been offset by gains on Saturday.
By charging more on Saturdays than on weekdays, The Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Independent have been able to offset a decline in revenues, which have been depressed by the recession. Last month, The Guardian also raised its price.
Over all, advertising for Saturday papers has risen sharply in recent months, according to The Guardian.
In one week in February, the newspaper said, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Independent and The Guardian averaged a combined total of 66.5 pages of advertising on weekdays. But on Saturday, it said, advertising totaled about 326 pages. Recent figures for The Daily Telegraph showed that two and half times more advertising space was sold for Saturday than for the average weekday.
"Six or seven years ago," said David Pugh, group marketing manager for The Telegraph newspapers, "if we'd said we're going to turn Saturday into the most successful day of the week, most people in publishing would have laughed."
The Saturday surge, said Jonathan Fenby, deputy editor of The Guardian, comes amid a long-term decline in the Sunday newspaper market. Now, Mr. Fenby asserted, "Saturday is the beginning of the weekend" and people want to start their weekend reading on Saturday.
More than Americans and most Europeans, the British are avid newspaper readers. Britain has 11 national dailies, including two large middle-market tabloids, The Daily Mail and The Daily Express, and several sensationalistic tabloids, most notably The Sun and The Daily Mirror.
And unlike the American press, the British newspapers have not faced intense competition for readers' time from television, which here offers only a fraction of the programming available in the United States.
The trend toward larger Saturday papers began in 1985, when The Financial Times started its Weekend section, and picked up speed in 1988, when The Independent introduced its color magazine and leisure and review section. The Independent's editor in chief, Andreas Whittam Smith, said those sections had "a brilliant effect on circulation." Indeed, in February, The Independent's circulation averaged about 406,000 on Saturdays, compared with 360,000 on weekdays.
At The Financial Times, the Weekend section features subjects ranging from personal finance to gardening. The Saturday paper now attracts about 25,000 more buyers than the weekday paper, which has a British circulation of about 180,000.
At The Times, its editor, Simon Jenkins, has expanded his Saturday paper to three broadsheet sections and a color magazine.
 
'Stopped the Rot'
 "We've sort of stopped the rot, stopped those Monday-to-Friday Times readers from buying a rival newspaper on Saturday," he said. There is, he added, "no question of a doubt that The Times would have been in worse shape if we hadn't made these expansions."
The Guardian, meanwhile, says it has picked up about 10,000 readers on Saturdays since it added a second broadsheet section in February.
At The Telegraph, Mr. Pugh said, Saturday expansion was part of his paper's "long-term strategy of overtaking The Sunday Times."
With a circulation of 1.05 million, The Daily Telegraph was deemed better placed than The Sunday Telegraph to compete with The Sunday Times, which dominates the market with a circulation of 1.17 million. From September to February, The Sunday Telegraph's circulation averaged just about 563,500, down from 671,400 about three years before.
So, a Saturday features section was added in 1987, the Sunday color magazine moved to Saturday in 1988, a supplement for young readers was started in 1990 and in February the Saturday paper began a weekly television guide. With each innovation, the newspaper gained advertising and tens of thousands of readers.
 
Problems on Sunday
 Mr. Pugh acknowledged that the stronger Saturday paper might have hurt The Sunday Telegraph, but said The Daily Telegraph needed to respond to increased competition.
And Mr. Whittam Smith, as editor in chief of both The Independent and its sister paper, The Independent on Sunday, said that by improving his Saturday paper, "we probably did make it harder for ourselves." But he said Saturday and Sunday papers could coexist because they served overlapping, but different markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS; INDUSTRY PROFILES DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: CASSIDY, SUZANNE DAVID L PUGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



423 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2371 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Independent
Perot's Quest -- A Special Report;
A Man Who Says He Wants To Be Savior, if He's Asked

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES with DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 12

 BODY:
H. Ross Perot seems to have this compulsion about rescuing things.
In the 1970's he was called upon to rescue Wall Street. When revolution gripped Iran, he bankrolled an effort to rescue two of his employees held hostage in a Teheran prison. In the 1980's it was General Motors and the Texas schools. Now, Mr. Perot is thinking about trying to rescue the country. 
 But only if he is asked.
At a time when huge chunks of the electorate seem to be hopping mad at incumbents and have expressed dissatisfaction with the choices that the parties are putting forward as Presidential candidates, the elfin, crewcut Texas billionaire is poised to cast himself as a kind of Lone Ranger from the Lone Star State ready to ride into Washington to clean up the mess.
 
A Myth in Danger?
 Mr. Perot's independent pre-campaign campaign has been buoyed by his legitimate feats and a largely uncritical press that has helped inflate his achievements to near mythic proportions. But that may be ending.
When he spoke Friday to the American Society of Newspaper Editors convention in Washington, Mr. Perot faced questions that finally provoked him to sharp replies, a response that seems to be typical of his style when challenged by reporters.
When asked in an interview in Dallas last week about his motive in running for President Mr. Perot said, "What you see is what you get," and added: "If we're going to spend all morning looking for hidden agendas, then you're just burning up my time and yours. I don't want to do this. Is that clear enough? Is that clear?"
He said he would make a decision on whether to formally become a candidate by June, and some who have advised him say he will probably toss his Stetson in the ring.
"There is no question he's going to go," says a top Democratic strategist familiar with some of Mr. Perot's deliberations and who insisted on anonymity.
If he does run, the 61-year-old Mr. Perot, who built Electronic Data Systems into the world's biggest computer services company before selling it to G.M., will be an unconventional candidate in a topsy-turvy political year. Political experts say any Presidential aspirant should have a broad constituency, an agenda, a campaign machine, seasoned advisers and fire in the belly. Mr. Perot clearly lacks the first four.
But he may be inching toward a mandate. Since he announced on March 16 on the Cable News Network program "Larry King Live" that he was prepared to run if enough signatures were gathered to place his name on the ballot in every state, nearly 1.8 million calls have been placed to his offices urging him to join the fray, his aides say.
The method of dipping one toe into the Presidential creek is vintage Perot, reflecting his habit of seeking challenges and his disdain for the ordinary political process.
"I consider the whole process as one that attracts the wrong kind of person," he said in an interview here. "These are people who are ego driven and power driven."
 
Writing His Own Speeches
 Mirroring Mr. Perot's political independence is his determination to control his campaign personally. Scorning political consultants as "handlers and cosmetologists," Mr. Perot said, "No one is going to write my speeches for me."
For the moment, he is relying mostly on three longtime associates for advice: Mort Meyerson, former president of E.D.S. and now an independent investor in Dallas; Thomas W. Luce 3d, chief executive of First Southwest Company, a Dallas bank, and Thomas D. Barr, a New York lawyer.
But he was not above soliciting advice from one Washington insider, Lloyd Cutler, a former White House counsel under Jimmy Carter. Mr. Cutler is supporting Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. The time may be drawing near when candidate Perot will need expertise for advertising, surveys and strategy.
The time also may be coming when his claims and comments are greeted with skepticism.
For instance, while Mr. Perot's aides boast of the 1.8 million calls he has received, nearly a third of those were logged before MCI, the telecommunications company, set up a more sophisticated system to handle the volume. Before MCI did that, company officials say, every person who tried to reach Mr. Perot's offices was counted, whether the call got through or not. A person who got a busy signal and called back was counted twice.
 
Strategy
Lots of Money, Lots of Obstacles
 The plain-talking Mr. Perot, whom Mr. Barr compares to Harry S. Truman, has the potential to create mischief for President Bush and Mr. Clinton in the general election insofar as he has struck a chord among voters yearning for change and an end to what they see as gridlock and vacillation.
A staunch supporter of the military, Mr. Perot opposed the Persian Gulf war, declaring that the Emir of Kuwait was not worth fighting for. His solution for Iraqi aggression: send a commando force, possibly with Israeli help, to assassinate Saddam Hussein.
"He has a bias for action," said Mr. Luce, whose answer puts American voters on notice that as President, Mr. Perot might resort to direct action if going through channels failed to produce results.
A telephone poll of 1,521 voters nationwide conducted in late March by the Los Angeles Times found that 21 percent said they would vote for Mr. Perot, as against to 37 percent for President Bush and 35 percent for Mr. Clinton. The survey found that Mr. Perot's support was strongest in New England, on the West Coast and the Middle Atlantic states and weakest in the Deep South and Farm Belt. The survey had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Such surveys lead political analysts to speculate that Mr. Perot could prevent either Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton from achieving a majority in the Electoral College. Mr. Perot said that if he saw himself playing only a spoiler's role, he would remove himself from the race.
Some political strategists say, however, that boomlets for third party and independent candidates are not unusual in the spring of election years. In March 1980, for example, in a race headlined by a weakened President Jimmy Carter and former Gov. Ronald Reagan of California, polls showed Representative John Anderson, a Republican from Illinois, with nearly a quarter of the vote as a third-party candidate. In the November election he received 6.7 percent.
But Mr. Perot enjoys advantages that would make Mr. Anderson swoon. First of all, he is stupendously rich, with a personal worth of between $2.5 billion and $3.5 billion, longtime associates say. Because he would not need Federal campaign aid, he would not be bound by spending restrictions and might spend $100 million or more, nearly twice as much as the legal limit for his opponents.
"We had a guy in Texas, Clayton Williams, who ran for Governor, and I thought he was rich," said Jim Oberwetter, chairman of the President Bush's campaign in Texas. "He spent $10 million of his own money and charmed a large portion of the electorate who voted in the primary" before making what many voters considered offensive remarks about rape and losing to Ann Richards in the general election in 1990.
"My concern," Mr. Oberwetter added, "is what if Ross Perot charms the American people on a few issues that we all agree on?"
 
Daunting Obstacles
 To become a force in the Presidential race -- indeed just to get his name on the ballot in every state -- Mr. Perot faces daunting obstacles. Each state has its own rules for qualifying, and some are difficult.
In New York, for example, Mr. Perot would have to gather 20,000 signatures from registered voters, including 100 each from 16 of the state's 31 Congressional districts. He must file the petitions between Aug. 11 and Aug. 18, but cannot start collecting signatures until July 7. People who voted in the recent primary are not allowed to sign.
"There are a lot of rules in a lot of states that are plainly designed to keep independents like Perot off the ballot," said Mr. Barr. He said Mr. Perot may have to go to court to gain access to some state ballots.
 
Issues
A Vague Agenda, But Plenty of Fire
 Some political strategists, especially those working for other Presidential candidates, say Mr. Perot has enjoyed great approval because the public does not know what he believes in. Indeed, in an interview he demonstrated an ability to be maddeningly vague, and grew prickly when pressed.
Under prodding, Mr. Perot said that he favors a capital gains tax cut -- though at different rates for investments in businesses and investments in securities. He also believes the President should have the power to veto specific items in spending bills, backs abortion rights and favors aid to the republics of the former Soviet Union.
Though he says the national debt is the most important issue, it is difficult to pin down his solutions. He says the country must build its industrial base to rebuild its tax base. To do that, he says, the nation should learn from successful examples of cooperation between governments and the private sector, like those in Japan.
As for the Federal budget deficit, Mr. Perot says $180 billion could be saved by the elimination of waste, fraud and abuse. He believes more efficient tax collection could provide an additional $100 billion a year, and that a further $100 billion could be gained by insisting that European and Asian countries reimburse the United States for the costs of their military defense.
On issues like affirmative action, drugs and gun control, Mr. Perot is much less specific. He says he wants to "get the guns out of the hands of violent people," for instance. But registering firearms or requiring a waiting period before their purchase would not accomplish that, he said.
The battle against drugs? "I won't get into them until I can build a consensus with the American people, if they've got the stomach for it," he said. "All I'll get from you guys is sound bites and distortions. But it won't be pretty."
 
Image
A Go-Getter Has Some Success
 Starting from humble roots in Texarkana, Tex., Mr. Perot has achieved success in business and a larger-than-life reputation that he sometimes jokes about. "I am not a legend," he said in a recent speech, "But I am a myth."
If he is, it is a myth built on action.
Henry Ross Perot was a go-getter, breaking horses, delivering newspapers and earning Eagle Scout rank. He won an appointment to the Naval Academy, where he was in the middle of his class academically but was elected its president. In 1956 he married the former Margot Birmingham of Greensburg, Pa.; the couple have five grown children.
He became a top computer salesman for International Business Machines Corporation in Dallas, but I.B.M. discouraged his idea for selling computer services rather than the machines themselves. So in 1962, with $1,000 borrowed from his wife's savings, Mr. Perot started the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, which initially bought unused computer time from owners of large units and sold it to companies that could not afford such equipment. When E.D.S. shares were first offered to the public in 1968, Mr. Perot became a wealthy man overnight.
From success in business, Mr. Perot turned to action in other arenas. But closer examination of his exploits suggest that while they show daring, resourcefulness and tenacity, not all were complete successes.
In 1970, with some Wall Street brokerages having troubles, officials of the Treasury asked Mr. Perot to invest $5 million in one failing concern to prop it up and restore the faith of small investors in the stock market. Mr. Perot agreed, but after three years, and losses totaling $60 million, he decided to dissolve the firm.
 
Tilting at G.M.
 The struggle between Mr. Perot and the G.M. management in 1986 is a case in point. Mr. Perot had sold E.D.S. to G.M. for $2.5 billion in 1984. As part of the deal, he got a stake in G.M. and became a director the company. But almost immediately he began clashing with top officials over the competitiveness of the company.
Ultimately, Mr. Perot sold his G.M. stake back to the company for $700 million, but the episode was an example of his having to retreat after charging head down into a immovable object.
In 1984 Mr. Perot headed a state commission to overhaul the Texas schools. He proposed an appointed, rather than elected, state school board, competency exams for teachers, smaller classes and a rule that failing students would temporarily lose eligibility for extracurricular activities, including high school football, a Texas passion.
Mr. Perot pushed the ideas through a special session of the Texas legislature, paying lobbyists from his own pocket. The "no pass, no play" football rule and tests for teachers still stand, but one of the most significant alterations, the appointed state school board, was later rejected by voters.
In the Iran rescue, Mr. Perot was "more lucky than smart," he has said. The Shah was busy battling the Muslim fundamentalists who would eventually remove him from power, and diplomatic efforts failed to free the two employees, who were jailed on accusations of bribery. So Mr. Perot hired a former Army colonel to train E.D.S. employees for a rescue attempt.
But as the raiders were planning the jail break in their hotel rooms, a resourceful young Iranian E.D.S. worker helped foment a riot by anti-Shah dissidents near the jail. The mob stormed the prison and released the E.D.S. executives along with thousands of other inmates. The rescue team and the executives fled to Turkey.
That rescue occurred in February 1979, a date of no particular importance to Mr. Perot. But there is a date that has been significant in his life: his birthday, June 27.
It has frequently been the date when milestones occurred. It was on June 27 that he was sworn in as a midshipman at the Naval Academy and when he founded E.D.S.
"After a while it was just something I decided to have some fun with," he said.
Now he has said he may make a formal campaign announcement "sometime in June." It will not be too surprising to those who know him well if his attempt to rescue the American economy and political system begins on June 27.

GRAPHIC: Photos: H. Ross Perot (Danny Turner for The New York Times) (pg. A1); H. Ross Perot, center, has a history of trying to rescue things, including Wall Street in the 1970's. He watched the New York Stock Exchange board in 1971 with wife, Margot. At left was Richard B. Howland, executive vice president of the exchange. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) (pg. A16)
 
Chart: "H. Ross Perot in His Own Words"
On running for president: "Since 1968 there have been all these theories that I was running for this, that or the other. This country has enough problems without inflicting me on it." -- 1987 interview, The New York Times
On politics: "I would make a very bad politician. I have no patience for the red tape and inactivity." -- February 1970 interview, the New York Sunday News
On corporate America: "Even in a bad year, the Who's Who of corporate America grants themselves enormous bonuses. It is obscene to have the gap between the factory floor and the corner office that we have." -- March 1992 interview, The New York Times
On General Motors: "GM cannot become a world-class and cost-competitive company simply by throwing technology and money at its problems. " -- 1986 interview, The Wall Street Journal
On education: "We've turned our schools from places of learning into places dedicated to play. Organized sports, the marching band, the pep squad, the 4-H groups dominate some of our schools, and any time left over is devoted to learning." -- October 1983 interview in the National Journal
 
(Photograph by Shelly Katz/Camera 5, 1971) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Special Report

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (63%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN (73%); TEXAS, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; LEVIN, DORON P; PEROT, H ROSS; PEROT, H ROSS (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



424 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-13
 
IRAN'S MODERATES LEAD VOTE
Early voting returns suggested that supporters of Iran's President were headed for a big victory over their anti-Western rivals in national elections. The vote seemed to signal disenchantment with the radical goals of the Islamic revolution. A1
 
KURDS TRIP PAST LAND MINES
Ranging from small ones that maim to spike-topped ones that kill, countless land mines threaten Kurds in Iraqi border areas. A8
 
HANGING ON IN YUGOSLAVIA
Whatever shape Yugoslavia finally assumes, its immediate economic prospects are certain to be worse than those of the nation born in 1918 as an amalgam of "South Slav" peoples and religions. A1
Alarmed by clashes, the U.N. plans to send observers to Bosnia. A6
 
WINNIE MANDELA UNDER FIRE
A co-defendant told a South African newspaper that he lied last year to protect Winnie Mandela, wife of the African National Congress leader. He said she indeed ordered four young men kidnapped, helped beat them and told him to dump the body of the youngest victim. A3
 
COOLING TO AID FOR RUSSIA
The Russian Government's moves to slacken its tough economic reforms and hints by free-market advocates that they might resign could delay the flow of Western aid to Russia, economists say. A12
Russian politicians haggle over reforms and power sharing. A12
U.S. splits with Europe again over aid to former Soviet states. A12
 
MEXICO'S SUPPLICANT CANDIDATES
Halfway into the incumbent's term, Mexico's silent presidential race has begun. No one with ambitions to succeed President Salinas dares acknowledge them publicly. A3
 
JAPAN WARNED ON NUCLEAR PLAN
The International Atomic Energy Agency has told Japan that its plans to import and store huge quantities of plutonium for its civilian nuclear program could pose "political and security problems" in Asia. A2
 
EURO DISNEYLAND OPENS
Unruffled by muttering about cultural colonialism, Walt Disney opened its first European theme park 20 miles east of Paris. Thousands of families flocked to the park despite warnings that their children's imaginations would be crushed. A1
 
Prague Journal: From dissident to accused informant. A4
Taiwan's leaders plan to relax curbs on political freedom. A7
 
National A14-17, B8
 
FRAYED PENSION SAFETY NET
The share of America's work force covered by company pensions is shrinking, reversing a decades-old trend of steady growth. Last year, an estimated 43 percent of workers participated in company pension plans, down from a peak of 49 percent in 1979. The drop was steepest among younger, blue-collar men. A1
 
EXAMINING THE INCUMBENT . . .
Aides to President Bush braced for a searching new inspection of his record, character, finances and conflict-of-interest issues as aides to Governor Clinton urge the news media to play fair. A1
 
. . . AND THE ICONOCLAST
The penchant of H. Ross Perot for riding to the rescue has taken him to the brink of a Presidential candidacy. But the Texas billionaire shows vagueness when pressed on the issues, and closer examination of his business exploits suggest that not all were complete successes. A1
 
AN ILLUSION OF AMITY SHATTERED
When whispers of mistrust erupted into a brawl between blacks and whites, a small Michigan college founded as a bastion of racial tolerance instead became an example of the tinderbox race can still be. A14
 
CATERPILLAR CHIEF SPEAKS OUT
As chairman of Caterpillar Inc., Donald Fites is presiding over what many experts say is the most important labor battle in years. It is an unusual position for Mr. Fites, a marketing man who has been widely recognized for his ability to forge harmonious relations with colleagues and workers alike. B8
 
BANK PRESIDENT GIVES UP
A Rhode Island bank president charged with embezzling $13 million from his bank and blamed for setting off the state bank crisis surrendered to the authorities after 17 months in hiding. A15
 
CENSUS BUREAU BACKS OFF
The Census Bureau dropped its attempt to dismiss a demographer who made public her unclassified estimates on Iraqi civilian deaths during the Persian Gulf war. A14
 
The Pope said he would visit Denver next year. A14
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
THE JOBLESS EX-MIDDLE CLASS
For tens of thousands of formerly solidly middle-class men and women thrown out of work by the weak economy, the recession has gone on too long. The effort to maintain a sense of control over their lives has become a daily challenge. A1
 Business Digest, D1
 
Sports C1-10
Baseball: Yanks stretch streak to 5. C1
Up, up and away goes Saberhagen e.r.a. C1
Bonds and Smith lead Pirates to victory. C6
Boston's Young pitches no-hitter . . . and loses. C7
Basketball: Knicks reach a new low point. C2
Nets' playoff hopes look cloudy. C2
Boxing: Foreman escapes as a winner. C9
Columns: Anderson on Couples and Floyd.C1
Football: Knights lose more than just the game. C7
Golf: Couples wins Masters. C1
Hockey: Devils lose to Capitals. C4
Islanders eliminate the Leafs. C4
Horse Racing: All eyes are on the Derby. C9
Tennis: Sabatini keeps zooming along. C3
Courier wins the Japan Open. C3
 
Obituaries B9
Eve Merriam, writer
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
Hollywood titans clash. C11
A Broadway dancer's life. C11
Theater: "A Streetcar Named Desire."C11
Dance: In Review. C12
Music: Continuum in works of Stefan Wolpe. C11
Fugazi at the Ritz. C12
Karen Akers sings. C15
Word and Image:
Literary salons are attempting a comeback. C15
"Poethics," by Richard Weisberg. C15
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
Editorials A18
Inspecting North Korea.
Get tougher with Peru.
Pornography and crime.
Diane Camper: Teens.
 
Letters A18
Leslie H. Gelb: Peru -- ideals in hell. A19
William Safire: The stingers stung. A19
William J. Taylor and Michael Mazarr: Defusing North Korea. A19
John Hockenberry: Limited seating on Broadway. A19

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Parliamentary election victory for Iran's President. (Associated Press) A1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EDL (PAR) (53%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: EURO DISNEY SCA (53%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); RELIGION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); TRENDS (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



425 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: From Middle Class to Jobless: A Sense of Pride Is Shattered

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

 BODY:
Like a mantra said daily over the shambles of his life, Marvin Pedowitz repeats: "I'm not going to lose my cool. I am in control."
Only at moments of great stress, like the other morning when his car battery died and he could not drive to a job interview it had taken weeks to line up, do the words fail him. 
 For Mr. Pedowitz, a 39-year-old accountant, and tens of thousands of other solidly middle-class men and women thrown out of work by the weak economy, the recession has gone on too long. The effort to maintain a sense of control over their lives, emotions and dignity has become a daily challenge.
 
Credit and Favors Exhausted
 Their unemployment benefits are running out. Their savings are nearing exhaustion. Their credit cards have long been overdrawn or canceled. Family members and friends can't be asked for more loans. Rent or mortgage payments have not been made in months. And eviction or foreclosure threats are turning up in the mail along with the piles of bills.
Public assistance agencies in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey report strong increases in applications for help over the last year. Many from the middle class are turned away, state and local officials say, because however painful their plight, they continue to hold paper assets that disqualify them.
The American middle class may represent a point of view more than an income range. It may be rooted in an attitude that its members control their economic destiny: they can provide for the necessities of life, build savings and provide for future needs.
 
A 'Shellshocked Group'
 Walking into a welfare office is confirmation of their fear that they have hit bottom. "They are a completely shellshocked group," said Nancy Glass, commissioner of the Westchester County Social Services Department, which has recorded an 18 percent increase in welfare cases since 1990. "And for those in the area who have been told they will be laid off, or fear they will be, it is white-knuckle time. Most of them carry such big mortgages in Westchester County that if anything goes wrong financially they have no space to wiggle." She said that more people seemed to be applying for the first time who formerly held middle-income jobs.
Going broke is new and frightening for white-collar workers with good educations and incomes who never worried about job security until the day they were laid off. Even those who lost upper-middle-class incomes were not immune and were horrified to see prolonged unemployment rapidly scuttle their assets and dreams.
And for thousands who have been out of work for a year or more, their bank accounts running on empty, prosperity is not around the corner. Increasingly, they fear, the welfare office is.
"I live in a different America today than I did two or three years ago," said Mr. Pedowitz, who has been out of full-time work since 1990, has fallen behind on his child-support payments, has no home of his own and stays ahead of bill collectors by living with friends in New Jersey whom he repays by doing their tax returns.
"I was raised to think that if you got an education, acquired skills and made sound investments, you would always have a job and money in the bank," he said, looking shattered as he recalled the suddenness of his fall from suburban grace.
"I'm partially at fault, I admit it," he said. "I got overextended at the end of the 80's. But it was what everyone was doing: paying more for a house than you could afford at the time, but it was the smart strategy. Housing prices were always going to go up. Get yourself big tax deductions. The list was endless. We were told no one should begrudge himself for wanting a piece of the pie."
The illusions evaporated like gossamer mists when jobs were lost. If new work was not found within months, the speed of the plunge into debt tied to fat mortgages, home equity lines of credit, auto loans and credit card overload jolted those who never before doubted their rightful places in the middle class.
Some have been forced to turn to state agencies and charitable groups, grateful to get assistance where it is available, stunned when it is not.
"I am faced with losing what I have spent a lifetime building up," said Zoltan R. Szebenyi, 49, of Holmdel, N.J., who said that he had been paid more than $100,000 a year as a salesman of motivational programs until the economy took a nose dive.
In a divorce settlement in 1989, he acquired a new $155,000 mortgage on his house, using the cash to make a settlement with his former wife. Now, monthly mortgage, tax and insurance payments totaling $1,760 have scuttled his savings and put him in risk of foreclosure.
 
Job at Half Old Salary
 In February, Mr. Szebenyi went hat in hand to Project Paul, a program run by the Roman Catholic Sisters of Mercy in Keansburg, N.J., and received an emergency grant of $1,500 to help keep the mortgage company at bay until he could find work. Last month he landed a job, but at half the salary of his old one, he said.
"Many middle-class people don't come to us for help until they're at the last gasp of their unemployment benefits and savings," said Sister Kathleen O'Halloran, director of Project Paul.
In Monmouth County, New Jersey, middle-class unemployed people are applying for assistance at a greater rate than ever before, based on background interviews when the applicants are screened.
"This is the last stop on their search for help," observed Mary DeRidder, administrative supervisor of income maintenance for the County Division of Social Services.
Brenda Brock, who interviews the applicants, said: "The ones I see are in a complete state of shock. They come from having had it all to losing it all."
They express anger and frustration, even rage, Ms. Brock said, when they come up against a system they have long heard about but never encountered and are forced to respond to endless questions and requests for financial statements to document their hardship.
Food stamps are easier to get than cash assistance, and there has been a 73 percent increase in the county program in the last two years.
For many, crossing that threshold is crossing a psychological line that carries them out of the middle class, said Alison Erb, head of the office. "They are baring their soul," Ms. Erb said. "It is all the worse if they go through the application, are informed they qualify and then are shocked to learn how little they get."
The maximum a single person receives is $111 a month in stamps. A family whose head still receives unemployment benefits may qualify for only $50 a month in stamps for the entire family, Ms. Erb explained.
Peter Deitche, a union ironworker in Fords, N.J. whose hourly pay scale is $22.51, plus $14 in benefits, has worked only 4 of the last 16 months and has fallen behind on his mortgage and other bills. He said he had no qualms when the Housing Coalition of Middlesex County helped him obtain cash through the Red Cross to pay his mortgage and utility bills for a month, in addition to giving him a $75 food voucher.
"I was very appreciative," he said. "I didn't feel bad at all. I looked the clerk at ShopRite right in the eye when I handed her the voucher. I'm no social parasite. I honestly need the money."
State and Federal programs provide money for eligible applicants. But the middle-class unemployed are running out of assets and applying for aid while the budgets of public agencies and private charities are strained trying to meet the needs of the groups they traditionally serve.
 
Charities Aid Former Donors
 Budget cuts forced the Nassau County Social Services Department to lay off 20 percent of its staff earlier this year, "while our caseload keeps growing, growing, growing," said Lynn Krishner, a spokeswoman.
At Catholic Family Services of New Haven, staff counselors say middle-class people who used to make contributions are now turning to the agency for help themselves.
"If they used our counseling services in the past they were covered by insurance, and their payments helped subsidize the poor," said Patricia Nere, the district executive director. "Now we're asked to subsidize their care, but we haven't found new sources of revenue." She said 85 percent of the new cases were white-collar families.
To make matters worse, Ms. Nere said, chronic unemployment among the middle class is contributing to family breakdowns, vanishing spouses, substance abuse "and a horrible increase in domestic violence."
"My real fear," said Ms. Nere, "is that it's just the beginning, that we haven't seen our worst year yet."
Mr. Pedowitz, the out-of-work accountant, dreads the day he may have to stand in a line with others seeking public assistance.
"The reality is I'm not middle class anymore; I'm not even eligible for social programs that someone living in a public housing project is," he reflected, his voice rising to the level of lament before he caught himself.
"I'm not going to lose my cool," he repeated. "I am in control."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Pedowitz, an accountant, has been out of full-time work since 1990 and has no home of his own. He lives instead with friends in New Jersey whom he repays by doing their tax returns. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); CITIES (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); EVICTION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COUNTIES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON MARVIN PEDOWITZ (70%); ZOLTAN R SZEBENYI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



426 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Russian Developments Could Delay West's Aid

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
The Russian Government's moves to slacken its tough economic reforms and hints by free-market advocates that they might resign could delay the flow of Western aid to Russia and the creation of a ruble stabilization fund, economists say.
The $24 billion aid package announced by President Bush just before the current meeting of the Congress of People's Deputies in Moscow was intended to help President Boris N. Yeltsin press ahead with changes, but his backtracking last week, caused largely by pressures from the hostile legislature, could delay important pieces of the package. 
 The Russian Government's moves to ease credit and otherwise appease members of the Congress antagonistic to rapid changes will probably push up Russia's already daunting inflation rate, economists say, and make it harder to create conditions for stabilizing the ruble.
These developments are also expected to raise new obstacles to Russia's signing an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Officials from the industrialized nations known as the Group of Seven say an I.M.F. agreement would be crucial to unlocking billions of dollars in I.M.F. and bilateral aid and allowing the $6 billion ruble stabilization to move forward.
 
Yeltsin Quitting as Premier
 Yegor T. Gaidar, the chief architect of Mr. Yeltsin's economic reforms, hinted that he might resign after the Congress voted on Saturday to force Mr. Yeltsin to relinquish his concurrent position as Prime Minister within three months. Mr. Gaidar fears that without Mr. Yeltsin as prime minister, it will be impossible to push through reforms.
Today in Moscow, the two sides said they had narrowed their differences, and Western analysts said they hoped that this meant that the commitment to reform would not be diminished. But some were apprehensive nevertheless.
"This week's developments could endanger the possibility of an I.M.F. agreement," said Stanley Fischer, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and former chief economist at the World Bank.
On a visit to Moscow two weeks ago, Treasury Under Secretary David Mulford praised Mr. Yeltsin's economic reforms, but he said that to qualify for I.M.F. aid, Russia would have to tighten up those reforms by, for instance, cutting the budget deficit further. Mr. Mulford and Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady are scheduled to visit Moscow on Tuesday to discuss aid and the state of reforms.
"People are somewhat concerned about the developments this week in Moscow," a senior Treasury official said. "But I don't think anyone is willing to say that this will necessarily slow down the process."
The moves the Yeltsin administration announced this week to placate legislators appear to conflict with the tightening up that Group of Seven officals are seeking. The Government said it would increase pensions, provide up to 200 billion rubles in new credits to cash-strapped state farms and factories, and delay plans to let energy prices jump to world levels. Raising energy prices would cut domestic consumption of oil and increase oil exports, helping improve Russia's balance of payments.
 
Ruble Stabilization Crucial
 While they worked behind the scenes to put together the huge Russian aid package, Treasury officials said they hoped extensive new aid would start flowing a few weeks after Russia joins the I.M.F., which is expected to take place in late April. They also said they hoped that a ruble stabilization fund would start in June or July, adding that stabilizing the ruble was crucial for steadying the teetering economy.
"Their decision to ease up on the budget and on credit will make it much more difficult to stabilize the ruble," Professor Fischer said. "All the things I have heard in the last few days make it less likely they will get a ruble stabilization fund in June."
Mr. Yeltsin's painful reform program has included lifting most price controls, slashing subsidies to consumers and cutting the budget deficit and money supply growth. Many of those measures are part of a preliminary I.M.F. program.
This last week's moves boosting outlays and easing credit are sure to create tensions with the I.M.F. An I.M.F. team is scheduled to go to Moscow next week for negotiations on an agreement.
"It looks as if both the deficit and inflation are going to be higher, so I don't see how some of these I.M.F. guidelines can be fulfilled," said Padma Desai, an expert on the Russian economy at the Harriman Institute at Columbia University.
Economists say that before beginning a ruble stabilization fund, it is necessary to rein in inflation because so long as prices rise, many Russians who can will deposit their savings in hard-currency accounts abroad. This will hurt Russia's balance of payments as well as confidence in the ruble.
Treasury officials also say Russia will have to unify its many different exchange rates into a single rate as well as agree with the I.M.F. on what exchange rate the ruble should have. Then Russia might have to wait for the ruble to float to the target level before the fund kicks in.
Once a unitary rate is established and the ruble is stabilized, convertibility will be more or less achieved, many economists say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INFLATION (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



427 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Stocks Plunge After Friday's Gain

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, April 13

 BODY:
Any lingering optimism from Friday's strong rally here evaporated today, with relentless selling pressure again sending the stock market into frightening downward spiral.
The market rose slightly in the morning in a tentative effort to sustain the upswing. But the overwhelmingly negative sentiment that has dominated the market for the last two weeks then took hold. A lack of positive news about the market or the economy was interpreted as bad news, analysts said. 
 The Nikkei index of 225 issues tumbled throughout the afternoon to close down 614.01 points, or 3.4 percent, to 17,236.65. The Nikkei lost 3.8 percent last week, in spite of Friday's rally, the index's fourth-largest in percentage terms.
Trading volume remained light, about 280 million shares, a sign that most investors are watching the carnage in the market from the sidelines.
"We're all pretty baffled," said Bill Brown, the president of Scudder Stevens and Clark Japan Inc., a unit of the big American asset-management company. "With this kind of volume, anything can happen."
The weak Japanese economy and prospects of falling corporate profits have taken a toll on the market for most of this year, but the decline turned into a rout two weeks ago, as investor confidence was shattered by what was regarded as a weak Government response to the situation. The Government pushed forward spending on public works projects, and the Bank of Japan reduced a critical interest rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



428 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: At Caterpillar's Helm, Calm and a Global View

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., April 11

 BODY:
Donald V. Fites winced when asked if the bitter dispute between 12,000 striking members of the United Automobile Workers union and Caterpillar Inc., was likely to have sweeping consequences for labor-management relations. Instead, the chairman of the giant construction machinery company said, it is merely a labor dispute -- though a formidable one -- with ramifications confined to one company.
"I don't think this thing has any larger ramifications," Mr. Fites said. "I believe that view is being put on by the United Auto Workers in an effort to try to whip up the passions of our employees and to try to make them feel that they have broader support. 
 "I find it inconceivable that for the mighty United Auto Workers union, with 900,000 members, and we, with less than 2 percent of that, that this is a life or death thing for the U.A.W. I don't believe it is."
But Mr. Fites's opinion is apparently not widely held. Many company executives, academics, analysts and Mr. Fites's counterparts in the industry as well as labor leaders contend that the Caterpillar chairman is presiding over the most important labor battle in years. As the two sides prepare to sit down with a Federal mediator on Monday, the dispute is being eagerly watched to see how it will be resolved and who will be most deeply shaken by its outcome.
 
'We're at an Impasse'
 Mr. Fites, in a recent interview at the company's headquarters here, said Caterpillar's aim remained to have its striking workers return, despite the company's pledge to hire nonunion workers as permanent replacements for workers who remain on strike.
He contrasted the strike with that of the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization a decade ago when President Ronald Reagan replaced the strikers, saying: "This is not the Patco of the 90's. Our objective is to get our employees back to work. Every day there are more of them coming back, and that's positive.
"But we're at an impasse. I suppose if the United Auto Workers could come forth with a new proposal that was near our final proposal then the impasse would be over."
Union leaders have maintained that Caterpillar's insistence that its offer is final makes a union proposal futile. And union members, who have largely continued to defy the company's ultimatum, continue their picketing, both at the plants throughout Peoria and outside the company's downtown headquarters. By the slogans on the picket signs -- "Get the Fites Out of Caterpillar," and "Will Rogers Never Met Don Fites" -- the target of their anger is the 58-year-old Caterpillar chairman.
It is an unusual position for Mr. Fites, a marketing man who has been widely known and recognized in the company for his capacity to forge harmonious relations with colleagues and workers alike at Caterpillar, where he has worked for the last 36 years. His colleagues attribute that skill in part to Mr. Fites's upbringing on a farm in northwestern Indiana and his 16 years in Caterpillar positions in Europe, South America, Africa and Asia, where he made it a point to understand the cultural differences in the workplace.
 
'So Good With People'
 "One of the real strengths about Don is that he is so good with people and he cares so much about the workers," said Robert H. Coyle, a retired Caterpillar marketing executive for whom Mr. Fites once worked. "He really takes time to get to know people and to ask about their families. And that's what I think bothers him most about the situation. It's what gives him the most pressure."
Mr. Fites, a tall former high school basketball player who was often mistaken in foreign countries for the actor Gene Hackman, insists that his company's hard stance in the labor dispute is simply an effort to enable Caterpillar to attack the practice of "pattern bargaining," in which a union's labor pact with one company sets a standard for bargaining for other companies in that industry.
In that context, Mr. Fites denies that Caterpillar's stand is meant to represent a philosophical position for all of industry, in particular the Big Three automobile makers in Detroit. "We have to be globally competitive and that's why we're taking this stand," he said. "There is no company like Caterpillar in the United States and certainly no company like Caterpillar with United Auto Workers representation.
"We've decided as a long-term strategy that we're going to stay in the good old U.S.A. and we're going to compete globally from this manufacturing base. This is our message."
 
Drive to Compete Globally
 It is just that position on global competition and attack on costs that has motivated Mr. Fites for years, starting long before he was elected chairman of Caterpillar two years ago. In its effort to push productivity and to remain competitive with its arch rival, Komatsu Ltd., of Japan, the company began a modernization program five years ago called "Plant with a Future." That program, which is intended to cut Caterpillar's costs, entailed heavy spending on new equipment and plant modernization. The company also reorganized, giving more autonomy to individual divisions to cut response time, but also cutting 1,000 jobs as a consequence. It was Mr. Fites who led that reorganization.
For Caterpillar, which sells 59 percent of its trucks and excavators overseas, being competitive with foreign makers of that same equipment has been crucial. And Mr. Fites has been a champion of international free trade.
"We always tell the U.S. Government, 'For heaven's sake, don't try to help us by putting up some protective barriers because as soon as you do that, your costs go up and you're that much less globally competitive,' " Mr. Fites said. "The other fallacy of protectionism is that if we think we can protect the automobile industry in this country or any other industry -- in this day and age in this world, I can't see protectionism working."
Mr. Fites has long been known as a strong advocate of free trade and was active last year in campaigning against the extension of steel import quotas, which expired two weeks ago.
Mr. Fites says he sees the United Automobile Workers as favoring protectionism because "I feel they believe that if they can put this protectionist wall around the automotive industry in the United States then perhaps their chances of maintaining the pattern bargaining process will be better."
Mr. Fites graduated from Valparaiso University with a degree in civil engineering and joined Caterpillar soon after graduation in 1956. He received a master's degree in management in 1971 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a Sloan Fellow. He has worked in management positions in South Africa, as marketing director of Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. in Tokyo and as president of Caterpillar Brazil S.A. in Sao Paulo, before returning here in 1981, when he became corporate vice president, and executive vice president in 1985.
Mr. Fites has presided over Caterpillar operations during economic fluctuation in Brazil, during social upheaval in South Africa and during recessions at home. As challenges go, he says the current labor dispute "would rank up there with some of the more interesting and exciting ones." But he added, "It's not a challenge that we don't think we're capable of addressing."
He said his wife and his 27-year-old daughter had been supportive. "They think we're doing what we have to to keep the company globally competitive," Mr. Fites said.
The one exception, perhaps, Mr. Fites suggested, is his 91-year-old father, who continues to live in rural northwest Indiana. When asked if his father shared his views on Caterpillar's strategy with the labor union, Mr. Fites paused for a moment. "My father has been a farmer all of his life and so he has good common sense," Mr. Fites said.
He then added quickly, with a smile: "I doubt he has an appreciation for all the things that take place in a situation like this. He makes his observations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Our objective is to get our employees back to work," said Donald V. Fites, the chairman of Caterpillar Inc., whose workers are on strike. (Fred Zwicky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (95%); CATR (PAR) (95%); CAT (SWX) (95%); CAT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (88%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) CATERPILLAR INC (95%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); PEORIA, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES; LABOR LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); 

PERSON: FITES, DONALD V; HICKS, JONATHAN P RONALD REAGAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



429 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Unusual Path To the Top At Mitsubishi

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 12

 BODY:
By the unwritten rules that dictate who rises to the top of Japan's corporate elite, Minoru Makihara should have long ago been scratched off the list of candidates to head the Mitsubishi Corporation, the crown jewel of Japan's most powerful business group.
In the years after World War II, when most of Tokyo's children were picking their way through the ruins of the city on the way to school, Mr. Makihara was not in Japan at all; instead, he received his education at an elite prep school in New England. 
 When anyone with ambition to become a future leader was battling for a scarce slot at the University of Tokyo, Mr. Makihara was enrolled as one of the few Japanese at Harvard, graduating in the 1954 class that included Edward M. Kennedy, the future Senator, and John Updike, the author. And while his colleagues at Mitsubishi climbed the ladder at headquarters and kept foreign forays brief, Mr. Makihara spent more than two decades in London, Seattle and New York.
So, many people in the company were taken by surprise when Mitsubishi said recently that Mr. Makihara would take over in June as president of the most famous of Japan's trading companies, which deal in everything from oil to dam-building and precious art to agricultural imports. The appointment was widely interpreted here as an effort by Japan's most politically powerful business group to project a gentler English-speaking image to the world.
By his very presence, the polished, cosmopolitan Mr. Makihara reinforces the message that the biggest problem facing Japanese business today is not profits but politics.
Since he returned to Japan several months ago, however, the man known outside Japan as Ben Makihara finds himself in the odd position of reassuring nervous employees and the Japanese press that he is, in fact, as Japanese as he looks.
"My background is very nontraditional," the 62-year-old Mr. Makihara said the other day. "But I am a very traditional person, fairly Japanese in my thinking. Some people go abroad a short time and come back very different. Others go abroad a long time and come back unchanged. I think that I am one of the latter."
Without question, Mitsubishi runs in Mr. Makihara's blood. His father was a Mitsubishi executive, and his wife, Kikuko, is the great-grandchild of the autocratic Yataro Iwasaki, the founder of the Mitsubishi empire.
Even without that background, though, his colleagues and friends say Mr. Makihara offers the best chance that Mitsubishi has of facing down critics who maintain that as Japan's largest keiretsu -- the inter-linked corporate groups that distinguish Tokyo-style capitalism -- Mitsusbishi epitomizes the exclusive, impenetrable nature of Japanese business.
Long gone are the days when the Mitsubishi Corporation exercised direct control over the other companies with the Mitsubishi name. (Among them are Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Motors, Mitsubishi Bank and some Mitsubishi companies that do not even have the name, like the Nikon Corporation and the Kirin Brewery.)
The trading company holds a small stake in most of the Mitsubishi group members and still coordinates their talents, much as Mr. Makihara did when, as head of Mitsubishi's American operations, he engineered the purchase of Aristech Chemical. It was a classic Mitsubishi deal: while Mitsubishi Corporation took the lead, other Mitsubishi companies were called in to take a stake or share technology with it.
In a talk the other day, Mr. Makihara argued that keiretsu were still widely misunderstood in the United States and far less monolithic or exclusive than trade negotiators contended. "The sense of strength of the keiretsu is exaggerated," he said. Companies within the group, he said, buy parts and enter ventures with nongroup members.
"We do business with Toshiba, and it isn't one of the Mitsubishi group, and we do business with other non-Mitsubishi companies," he said. "In an economy as competitive as Japan's, you have to."
But Mr. Makihara readily acknowledges that the historical bonds among the companies run deep. The relationships are cemented at events like Mitsubishi's famous Friday lunches, held in the Mitsubishi Club just above Mr. Makihara's office. There, the chairmen and presidents of the Mitsubishi companies -- no one else can join -- discuss the political scene and talk about the direction of the group. It is the kind of event that gives indigestion to antitrust experts.
The chief purpose of the lunch, like most rituals in Japan, is to create relationships rather than get any specific item of business done. But Mr. Makihara says that the lunches have a "mystique that needs to be changed," adding: "Why not make it more accessible? I would suggest that it be more transparent."
Mr. Makihara's colleagues say one of his first challenges will be to broaden the group's international alliances.
At a time when the Japanese auto industry is trying to promote cooperative arrangements with the American Big Three, the most prominent of those deals, Mitsubishi Motors' relationship with the Chrysler Corporation, is tearing apart. Chrysler is liquidating most of its stake in the Japanese car maker, and Mitsubishi executives say that after repeated conflicts with Lee A. Iacocca, Chrysler's chairman, they are hardly sad to see the partnership end.
"The personal chemistry wasn't there," Mr. Makihara said. Mr. Iacocca, he said, "is not really interested in forging an alliance."
For a while, it seemed that Mitsubishi's alternative to Chrysler would be Daimler-Benz, Europe's biggest manufacturer and one of the few enterprises with Mitsubishi's scope. Two years ago, at the initiative of Edzard Reuter, Daimler's chairman, the two groups signed a broad but vague statement of their intent to join forces in a range of areas.
But the discussions have barely inched along, and no one has yet described a vision of ways the two groups can cooperate. "Over time, something will come out of it," Mr. Makihara said. "I don't know what."
While Mr. Makihara's tenure may be measured by such international ventures, his toughest challenges may come from within Japan and within Mitsubishi. He has, for example, cautiously sided with Akio Morita, the chairman of Sony, who opened a debate on whether Japanese companies must give up their incessant drive for more market share.
"I think he is partly reflecting some new thinking which is going on among Japanese companies, that predatory practices, that the constant expansion of market share, must now change," Mr. Makihara said. "But it is easier said than done. Among the trading companies, no individual company can be the only one to stop -- or we will lose our share."
Mr. Makihara said he sensed concerns among a younger generation of Mitsubishi workers. "They raise questions that I am sympathetic with," he said. "They want more challenging work, more interesting work."
The huge Japanese trading companies, however, are hardly known for their flexibility and willingness to change with the times. That was evident when Mr. Makihara welcomed new Mitsubishi employees at an annual induction ceremony the other day: of 219 "career track" entrants, none were women. Even by Japan's standards, that figure stood out.
"In due course, I don't know how quickly, trading companies must bring women into line positions, managerial positions," he said.
It is difficult to tell if Mr. Makihara's caution on such topics is innate, or whether it reflects the fact that he is now back in Japan, and must tow the Japanese line. In the past, Mr. Makihara excelled at fitting into the country where he was working. His daughter, Kumiko, said recently that "when we were living in Japan, we didn't see him much; he was away from the house all the time like a real 'salaryman,' " the Japanese phrase for a white-collar worker. "When we lived abroad," she added, "he was always home for dinner."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Minoru Makihara, the president of the Mitsubishi Corporation. (Noboru Hashimoto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MBC (LSE) (96%); 8058 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (96%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI CORP MITSUBISHI CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); WRITERS (68%); WORLD WAR II (57%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (51%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (51%); AGRICULTURE (51%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; MAKIHARA, MINORU; MAKIHARA, MINORU (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) TED KENNEDY (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



430 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Rhode Island Bank Chief Surrenders to Face Embezzlement Charges

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., April 12

 BODY:
Joseph Mollicone Jr., the former bank president accused of touching off the banking crisis that swept this state a year ago, surrendered here today after eluding the authorities for 17 months.
Mr. Mollicone, who is charged with embezzling at least $13 million from the bank he headed, gave himself up at 1 o'clock this morning in the home of Thomas DiLuglio Sr., a prominent lawyer here. He is being held at a state prison in Cranston, where he is to be arraigned on Monday.
 
Led to Bank Crisis
 The 48-year-old banker disappeared on Nov. 8, 1990, after his son dropped him off at Logan Airport in Boston. Attorney General James O'Neil said he did not know where Mr. Mollicone had been since his disappearance, but added that he thought it was "far away." He suggested that the Providence banker might have returned to see his first grandchild, who was born several months ago. 
 Soon after Mr. Mollicone went into hiding, Rhode Islanders learned that the embezzlement of a mere $13 million had led to the state's worst banking crisis since the Great Depression. To cover the $13 million, the Rhode Island Share and Deposit Indemnity Corporation, the private fund that insured deposits in all banks and credit unions in the state, depleted its reserves. That led to the collapse of 44 other institutions.
Less than an hour after his inauguration on Jan. 1, 1991, Gov. Bruce Sundlun announced that he would close those banks and credit unions, freezing $1.7 billion in accounts belonging to one third of the state's one million residents. Although 36 of the 45 institutions have reopened, about 200,000 depositors are still waiting for at least some of their money. Many were forced into bankruptcy.
 
Wife Forced Into Bankruptcy
 Mr. Mollicone's wife, Joyce, was also forced to file for protection from creditors last December because her husband had emptied their bank accounts. She moved from their $600,000 house on Blackstone Boulevard to a small apartment. She also had to give up their condominum in West Palm Beach, Fla. At the bankruptcy hearing, Mrs. Mollicone said she had $50 on hand and $150 in the bank, and that her only assets were $1,750 worth of furniture and $3,500 worth of jewelry, The Providence-Journal reported.
In the months after Mr. Mollicone's disappearance, state officials sifted through bank records to determine whether the bank, based on Atwells Avenue, had links to organized crime. A federal investigation later uncovered both links to organized crime and that the bank was laundering money for a drug cartel in Colombia. A Cranston coindealer, Stephen Saccoccia, was charged last November with running a money-laundering ring, which funneled a total of $715 million through various, including an estimated $3.5 million through Heritage Loan.
The embezzlement was discovered after then-Gov. Edward DiPrete ordered an investigation into reports of irregularities in the bank's lending practices. The investigation revealed that 128 people and businesses listed as loan recipients, never applied for loans and did not receive them. Among those falsely listed as borrowers were Mr. Mollicone's father-in-law, godfather, golfing partners and Mayor Vincent A. Cianci. The loans were also not recorded in the bank's computer.
Instead, the authorities said, the money was used by Mr. Mollicone to pay bills and invest in real estate projects, including the rehabilitation of several downtown offices. He also opened a pizza franchise, said Assistant Attorney General Robert Craven.
"He was the main recipient of money," said Mr. Craven, who is the lead prosecutor before the state grand jury. "We expect that may change if he decides to talk with us."
Mr. Mollicone asked Mr. DiLuglio, a lawyer, to arrange his surrender six weeks ago. Attorney General O'Neil, who negotiated the details with Mr. DiLuglio, said Mr. Mollicone's only concern was his safety. But Mr. Mollicone's attorney, Julius Michaelson, said he was not aware of any threats made on his client's life.
The investigation also raised questions about the operations of the fund that insured the bank, The Rhode Island Share and Depository Indemnity Corporation. Heritage had not been subject to an audit for three years although an audit is required every 15 months under the fund's charter.
The former chairman of the fund, Joseph Belluci, and its president, Peter Nevola, friends of Mr. Mollicone, were arrested in February, after a grand jury charged them with covering up the embezzlement of Heritage Loan and Investment.
The investigation of the state's banking crisis has also led to charges against several others, including Peter Iannuccilli, the former vice president of Heritage. Mr. Iannuccilli has also been charged with helping Mr. Mollicone conceal the embezzlement from bank regulators.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Mollicone Jr., accused of embezzling at least $13 million, seen in a videtape made after he surrendered in Providence, R.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RHODE ISLAND UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DEPOSIT INSURANCE; EMBEZZLEMENT; BANKRUPTCIES EMBEZZLEMENT (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CREDIT UNIONS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); CARTELS (60%); 

PERSON: MOLLICONE, JOSEPH JR BRUCE GEORGE SUNDLUN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



431 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The share of America's work force covered by pensions is shrinking, reversing a decades-old trend of steady growth. Last year, 43 percent of workers participated in company pension plans, down from a peak of 49 percent in 1979. [Page A1.]
With today's renewed interest in executive compensation, a contest was organized last week to see who could best understand some proxy statements sent to the S.E.C. [D1.] 
 The bank president blamed for Rhode Island's banking crisis surrendered after eluding authorities for 17 months. [A18.]
The chairman of Caterpillar winced when asked if the bitter dispute with 12,000 striking members of the U.A.W. is likely to have sweeping consequences for labor-management relations. [B8.]
 
Companies
T.W.A. defiantly counterattacked its larger competitors, cutting its fares below the range of lower fares they announced last week, in order to remain 35 to 40 percent cheaper than its rivals. [D1.]
Olympia & York will meet today with more than 100 banks to try to sort out its troubles, And the man it hired a few weeks ago to help it, Thomas S. Johnson, former president of Manufacturers Hanover, will not be there. He resigned yesterday. [D1.] Heron International, one of Britain's largest private companies, is doing its best to counter fears that it is collapsing. [D10.]
Clearer is better, Pepsi-Cola is betting, as it introduces its Crystal Pepsi today. [D1.]
Disney opened its European theme park, unruffled by muttering about cultural colonialism from French intellectuals. [A1.]
 
International
The tensions between the U.S. and Western Europe over who should take the lead in rebuilding the former Soviet states reappeared as Treasury Secretary Brady complained that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was going beyond its mandate. [A12.] The Russian Government's moves to slacken its tough reforms, and hints by free-market advocates that they might resign, could delay the flow of aid to Russia, economists say. [A12.]
Mitsubishi surprised many people when it chose Minoru Makihara as its new head. [D1.]
The former commercial banker who heads the World Bank has brought corporate American management practices to the international lending agency. He has forgone his predecessors' role in setting economic development priorities around the globe. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
Time will introduce today its most radical redesign since it began publication 69 years ago. [D1.]
The three big broadcast networks finally have some evidence, after 15 years of steady erosion, that they may not be in a permanent plunge. Bill Carter: Television. [D7.]
The British press has one surprising success story: Saturday, when more copies are selling than on weekdays. [D7.]
Many immigrants turn to special ethnic Yellow Pages for help in finding their way. [D7.]
One of advertising's most powerful clients assessed the creativity and effectiveness, or lack thereof, of the campaigns for which he spends $800 million a year. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]
 
Today's Columns
The Fed has not yet finished easing monetary policy, a substantial number of credit market analysts say. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Some investors are warily considering food retailers, but many others remain skeptical. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HERON INTERNATIONAL PLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (77%); BANK FAILURES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); IMMIGRATION (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: THOMAS S JOHNSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



432 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Racial Tension Erupts, Tearing a College Apart

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OLIVET, Mich., April 10

 BODY:
Normally this is Olivet College's giddy season, the last few weeks of class at the small liberal arts college here that was founded as a bastion of racial tolerance and whose Gothic turrets dominate this tiny rural town.
But a week ago, a racial brawl brought unspoken hostilities to a boil and turned the campus of about 700 students into a living example of the tinderbox that race can still be in this country more than a generation after the civil rights movement. 
 In a haze of rumors about black men and white women that recall 1950's Alabama more than 1990's Michigan, about 40 white students and 20 black students turned on one another in the lobby of a dormitory named after the college's abolitionist founder, the Rev. John Shipherd. Racial epithets were shouted at the black students as the two sides rumbled on the gray linoleum. Two students, one black, one white, were injured and briefly hospitalized.
Afterward, blacks and whites who had crammed together for midterms and shared lunch money and dormitory rooms could not look each other in the face and were no longer on speaking terms.
The jeers and threats against blacks from white classmates and townspeople continued into this week until most of the 55 black students packed their bags and went home with two weeks left in the semester.
Some are debating whether to come back for finals or graduation. Some are debating whether to come back at all. At least eight students have told college officials they will not return. By this afternoon, there were only four black students left on campus, and they were debating whether to leave, too.
"Obviously they don't want us here," said Davonne Pierce, a black sociology major who stayed on campus. "People I never would have expected have called me names. None of us feel we can trust white people anymore."
Watching an evacuation he felt helpless to stop, Donald A. Morris, the president of the college, formally excused from classes on Thursday and Friday all students who feared for their safety. Several dozen whites took him up on the offer as well.
 
Hearing Before Board
 A judicial hearing on the case is scheduled for Wednesday before a board of faculty and students, which could decide to expel or suspend the students it determines caused the fight. Many black students, angered that white students were not reprimanded for the racial threats and name-calling, say that the outcome of the hearing will determine whether they return or not.
Specialists in race relations see Olivet as a kind of everycampus and the week's developments as a painful rebuke of country's early and naive assumptions about solving the matter of race.
"What it shows is that desegregation is not integration," said Joe R. Feagan, a professor of sociology at the University of Florida, who has written extensively about race relations. "The remedial steps we took to deal with racism in this country have been desegregation steps. We have mixed black students in white institutions without doing anything about the attitudes of whites and the culture of the institutions. As a government and a society, we put them there and went home."
Olivet is an unlikely place to try out integration. It is a poor, rural town of 1,700 people, virtually all of them white, surrounded by cornfields and automobile parts factories. Neighboring towns are feared by blacks because of rumors of an active Ku Klux Klan.
But it was here in 1844 in what was then wilderness that Mr. Shipherd, the Congregational minister who founded Oberlin College in Ohio, decided to start a new college for "students not rich in worldly goods."
Both colleges opened their doors to blacks and women long before other colleges did and were considered havens of racial tolerance. "We thought this was the last place this would happen," Dr. Morris said. "That's why this is such a struggle for us."
But the ingredients for friction have been there for years. The college is a sociological test tube, mixing white students from mostly rural Michigan towns who have had little or no contact with blacks and a tiny minority of blacks mostly from Detroit isolated in a remote and alien setting. It has no black professors or administrators and only one black employee out of 132, the minority recruitment officer, who is frequently on the road.
 
Rift on Interracial Dating
 The first signs of trouble came in the last few months as white male students became more vocal in their resentment toward black men dating white women.
On April 1, a white female student caused a stir when she said she had been attacked by four black students and left unconscious in a field near campus. She was not hospitalized, there were no warrants issued despite a police investigation and college officials are skeptical of the account.
But word of her account spread quickly. Later that night, two trash cans were set on fire outside the dorm rooms of several black student leaders.
The next night, according to accounts from students and college officials, a white sorority member called her brother fraternity for help, saying she was being harassed by some male students. Two black male students and a white male student had knocked on her dormitory door. One of the black students had come to ask about a paper she was typing for him.
The men say matters were civil. She says she felt threatened. Either way, within minutes of her call, about 15 brothers from Phi Alpha Pi, a white fraternity, had arrived and confronted the two black men in the coed dormitory's lobby.
A crowd gathered, more whites joined in and more blacks were summoned by some black female students to even the numbers. It is not known who threw the first punch. Blacks say it was a white fraternity member; the fraternity says things happened so fast it was not clear.
But what is clear is that instead of seeing a roommate or fellow sophomore, the students saw race. In the middle of the fight, one of Mr. Pierce's white friends yelled racial epithets at him as Mr. Pierce, a dormitory resident assistant, tried to break up the fight.
"I said, 'How can you call me that when we were friends, when I let you borrow my notes?' " Mr. Pierce said, still incredulous. "But at that point, it was white against black. It was disgusting. We would go to class and couldn't even look at each other."
The epithets flew longer than the fists did. White students standing on the porch of a fraternity house across the street shouted them after the crowd broke up, saying it was time to get guns.
"It was coming from everywhere," said Gleo Wade, a black freshman. "I didn't look to see where it came from. I was hearing so much of it."
Instantly, blacks and whites took sides with their own race. Student's fear reached such heights this week that black and white students were afraid to go out at night alone, prompting the university to hire security guards to escort students between the campus's four blocks.
Still, of all the slurs shouted that day few students will admit to having said one. And even the white fraternity members who confronted the two black students said that little good had come of it.
"There were a lot of bonds that were broken that didn't need to be broken," said Dave Cook, a white junior majoring in business who was one of the Phi Alpha Pi members at the fight.
Mr. Cook considered one black female student to be a friend. But that was before. "We would high-five each other and study for tests," he said. "But I don't know what she thinks about me. I don't know whether she's hating me or what. I didn't say one word to her, and she didn't say one word to me. Now she's gone."
For many in this generation of white students, born a decade after the great civil rights marches, this is their first experience with racial protest, and many did not know how to take it.
Suzanne Michener, a white junior majoring in education, said: "My generation has never been through anything like this.I didn't know what to say to the blacks I know. I've been thinking, 'Was there segregation here? Did I miss something? Is there something I did wrong?' "
 
Call for Hiring of Blacks
 While the week's events may have awakened some white students, black students say they will not come back until they have reason to feel safe. They say they want some black professors hired, a mandatory course on multiculturalism for all students and a director of multicultural affairs.
The administration has agreed to the demands and plans to begin sensitivity training for faculty and staff and hire a black professor by the fall.
But this week, after telephone threats and rock-throwing and warnings of violence from townspeople and white students, the black students said they were more worried about the ability of the administration to protect them. On Wednesday, they packed their belongings into vans and U-Haul trucks and walked out in both protest and fear.
"It wasn't an easy decision," said Henry Henderson, the principal black student leader. "It would have been easier to stay. But the campus is unsafe and unjust. I can't imagine any of us returning."
Many are jeopardizing their chances at graduate school or facing the likelihood of repeating a semester.
Mr. Henderson is weeks from graduation and is risking acceptance at law school by staying away, but he cannot forget the night of the brawl. "You saw everyone's true colors that night," he said. "Everyone dropped their mask and showed themselves. People who nudged you for answers on a test were calling you coon and spear-chucker."
On Friday, the campus resembled a ghost town, as scores of students, black and white, retreated home to Detroit or Sheboygan to cool off.
"The problem with going back home," said John S. Homer, an economics professor, "is that they're going back to where they were raised, where they got their attitudes to begin with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A brawl a week ago involving white fraternity members who confronted two black students in a white female student's dormitory has brought to the surface unspoken hostilities to the campus of Olivet College in Olivet, Mich. The school was founded as a bastion of racial tolerance. Four of the members of the fraternity were from the left, Roger Hunwick, Lance Johnson, Daniel Gibney and Dave Cook; "Obviously they don't want us here," said Davonne Pierce, who stayed on campus, although most of the 55 black students have gone home with two weeks left in the semester. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Olivet College At a Glance"

 	 	Established	1844	Avg. cost, '90-'91	$11,495	 	 	1991 enrollment	766	Michigan residents	96%	Financial aid recipients	94%	Women	44%	Black students	9%	Hispanic students	1%	Asian-American students	1%	 	 	Fall '90 applicants	560	Accepted	80%	Enrolled	58%	 (Source: Peterson's Guide to Four-Year Colleges 1992)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLIVET COLLEGE OLIVET COLLEGE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLIVET COLLEGE OLIVET COLLEGE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RACIAL RELATIONS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL DONALD A MORRIS (55%); JOHN SHIPHERD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



433 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin and Foes in Congress Step Away From the Brink

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 12

 BODY:
Russian Government and congress officials spent the day today in secretive huddles, seeking ways to retreat from the confrontation that took shape on Saturday when the country's highest elected council adopted a resolution limiting President Boris N. Yeltsin's right to name his officials.
After a meeting between senior members of Mr. Yeltsin's Government and the Presidium of the Congress of People's Deputies, the two sides said in a statement that "as a result of constructive discussions, it became possible to narrow the positions and to agree on cooperation in advancing radical economic reform." 
 Today, Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, the chief economic planner in Mr. Yeltsin's Government, agreed that the discussions had been "very constructive." But Mr. Gaidar again threatened that the Cabinet would resign if he was put in the position of "rubber-stamping the appearance of reform."
The resolution that brought Mr. Yeltsin's officials to loggerheads with the congress was adopted Saturday, after a day of heated debate and innumerable votes. It declared the current course of economic reform unsatisfactory and suggested that the President make substantial changes.
 
Matter of Timing
 The most provocative provision called on him to propose a new Prime Minister and Cabinet within three months. Mr. Yeltsin, who now holds the Prime Minister's post as well as the Presidency, had offered to step down as Prime Minister, but within six months. The resolution was adopted, 647 to 69.
Though the difference between the two positions seemed to be just a matter of a few months, the resolution touched the issue at the heart of the legislative session -- control over the course of economic change.
Mr. Yeltsin and his supporters argue that he and the Government must have full authority and the full backing of the congress to pursue painful economic policies, which include steep price increases and tight money.
In the view of presidential aides, the congress, in rejecting Mr. Yeltsin's request for an extension of his special powers, was essentially trying to curb his freedom of action.
Mr. Gaidar, among others, sharply assailed the measure and on Saturday threatened to resign, while Mr. Yeltsin's legislative supporters spoke of calling a referendum or even moving to dissolve the congress.
 
A Land Where Little Is Final
 The resolution, though formally adopted, was not expected to be the last word. The congress's Speaker, Ruslan I. Khasbulatov, delayed signing the document until Monday, leaving time for amendments. And the brief but tumultuous history of Russian and Soviet legislatures gives ample evidence that few votes are final.
Some legislators privately noted that even if the resolution remained in force, Mr. Yeltsin still had three months to rule by decree, and beyond that had a good chance of naming a Prime Minister of his choice.
In any case, th President was not thought to be enthusiastic about a referendum or to want legislative elections during a period of economic hardship. Members of the congress were likewise thought not to want to intensify the confrontation any more, or to torpedo the Government or the reforms, since Mr. Yeltsin remains a popular figure in this country.
It remained unclear whether Mr. Gaidar's threats to resign were tactical, or if he would in fact step down if the congress persevered in its attacks on his programs. Mr. Yeltsin, the central figure in the drama, was not present during the voting Saturday and has made no public statement since.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conflicts between President Boris N. Yeltsin and the Russian legislature over economic reforms and other matters threaten to delay pieces of the monetary aid package announced last week by President Bush. A woman inquired about the price of a sausage in an outdoor market yesterday in Moscow. The price of food in Russia has skyrocketed. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



434 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

WHEN THE RECESSION DOES NOT END
For tens of thousands of solidly middle-class men and women who have been thrown out of work by the weak economy, the recession has gone on too long. Their unemployment benefits are running out. Their savings are nearing exhaustion. And eviction or foreclosure threats are turning up in the mail along with the piles of bills. The effort to maintain a sense of control over their lives, emotions and dignity has become a daily challenge. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
WOMAN SURRENDERS AT THE UNITED NATIONS
Nearly 24 hours after she drove to the United Nations, doused herself with gasoline and threatened to set herself on fire as a protest against using taxes for military spending, a 41-year-old California woman surrendered to the police. The woman, the daughter of a Nobel Prize-winning nuclear physicist, Owen Chamberlain, was taken to Bellevue Hospital. B3.
 
THE TIMES AND DRIVERS REACH AGREEMENTS 
 The New York Times and a major independent newspaper delivery company reached separate tentative agreements with the drivers union that could insure labor peace in the wholesale distribution of New York's newspapers until the year 2000 and speed the opening of The Times's new printing plant in Edison, N.J. B2.
 
THE 'MITZVAH TANKS' READY TO ROLL
The Lubavitch Hasidim call them the "mitzvah tanks" -- vans bedecked with religious sayings, blaring Old World music and trolling for Jews who want to rediscover their religious roots. Tomorrow morning a 90-strong caravan of them -- which may look to the uninitiated like a noisy parade of Winnebagos -- is to set out from the sect's headquarters in commemoration of the 90th birthday of the movement's spiritual leader, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson. B3.
 
M.T.A. will use $292 million in Federal money for capital improvements. B3.
 
New Yorkers sometimes belie the reputation they build. Metro Matters, B3.
 
REGION
 
HOUSING FIGHT IN YONKERS
Seven years after a Federal judge ruled that housing in Yonkers was deliberately racially segregated, city officials are trying to sell the idea of desegregation for the first time in the city's history. The new Mayor and ranking City Council members are lobbying hard for a compromise plan, instead of one ordered by the judge. But the effort is opposed by both the Yonkers chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which says it does not go far enough, and leaders of the resistance to housing desegregation, who say it goes too far. B7.
 
CHANGES PROPOSED IN ELECTION LAWS
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo revived his plea for sweeping changes in the state's election laws. Collectively, the legislation would make it easier for New Yorkers to run for office, including the presidency, and to register to vote, would establish the public financing of state elections, would limit contributions from political action committees, and would force the Legislature to conduct more of its business in open meetings. B7.
 
THE PUZZLING CASE OF A MISSING BOY
In the end, what matters to Pablo and Odilia Fuentes is that their son Pedro is home -- unharmed during the two years he was missing after mysteriously disappearing one day a few blocks from the family's apartment. But they admit that they are still puzzling over how their son, then 14 years old, could have been found wandering in the Bronx -- and then was placed in New York City's foster-care system -- without anyone notifying the police. B4.
 
CATCHING UP TO MAN AHEAD OF HIS TIME
When Larry Aldrich began his museum in Ridgefield, Conn., 28 years ago, the first, he believes, to be titled a museum of contemporary art, Pop Art was just bursting on the scene, and art historians had yet to differentiate "contemporary art" from the catchall label of "modernism." Today, contemporary-art museums are liberally dotted about the landscape, and, at age 86, Mr. Aldrich is passing the baton to a new director. Ridgefield Journal, B7.
 
Cuomo proposes expanding responsibilities of the New York State Thruway Authority. B5.
 
The Traffic Map B6
 
Chronicle B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OLD WORLD BAKERY (54%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); ELECTION LAW (83%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); EVICTION (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); MAYORS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); JUDGES (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (51%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: OWEN CHAMBERLAIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



435 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
One More Time: Magazine Is Reborn

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY

 BODY:
After more than a year of intense analysis over its mission and the role of news magazines in general, Time will introduce today its most radical redesign since it began publication 69 years ago.
But relax, readers. It is still unmistakably Time. 
 The famous red border is intact, although a new, enlarged logo is emblazoned across the cover. The magazine itself, however, has been totally reorganized into a crisp eight-page section of news items, a fat middle section of longer and more in-depth articles and a final section devoted to cultural reviews. The type is clean looking and seems easier to read.
"The priority was to define what a news magazine would be in the era of instant communications," said Henry Muller, the managing editor since 1987. "Five years ago when we started to talk about this, two-thirds of the magazine was still driven by last week's news. Now, two-thirds of the magazine is original."
As rumors about the redesign swirled through the magazine industry, the project was conducted in utmost secrecy. Last summer, a Time design team quietly set up shop in an apartment on West 79th Street in Manhattan to create a new structure for the magazine that would accommodate the editorial changes of the last few years.
Few people at Time knew of the safe house's existence. But by summer's end, top executives were slipping in regularly to scrutinize the dummied pages that were tacked to walls and illuminated by spotlights. What they were studying was the redesign. But what they were assessing was whether this would still essentially be Time magazine.
Time officials insist that the redesign is a response to editorial needs and is not part of a larger business plan. Nonetheless, Time derives half of its revenues from circulation, and a magazine with a strong editorial content is obviously in a better position to attract more readers. Time, the largest of the three news magazine, currently has a circulation of nearly 4.1 million.
A few media directors and advertisers who have seen the redesign spoke about it with enthusiasm. More critical comment will have to wait until the redesigned magazine is seen by more readers and advertisers.
"I like it; there is a certain thoughtful logic behind it," said Alec Gerster, executive vice president of media at Grey Advertising. "It is potentially a more accessible, reader-friendly magazine."
And Bud Liebler, vice president of communications at the Chrysler Corporation, called the redesigned magazine an improvement. "It has interesting advertising placement possibilities," he said. "Frankly, I think the sound bite is getting on people's nerves. I think people are looking for a little substance."
 
Reaction From Newsweek
 Time's two competitors, Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report, have been redesigned within the last decade and have indicated no plans to redo themselves again. "The only reason in my view to tamper with the positioning of a magazine is if you think you have a major problem with your readers," said Richard M. Smith, editor in chief and president of Newsweek.
Ever since reports of Time's redesign began leaking out, Time has been bedeviled by two conflicting rumors. The first, dubbed "Time Lite," held that to attract new readers, Time would cater to the purportedly short attention span of the television generation, abandon serious articles and essentially turn itself into a magazine of news briefs. The second rumor -- known as "the Harperization of Time" -- predicted that Time would leave news reporting to newspapers and television and turn itself into a weekly essay magazine.
Time has done neither. The first section, titled "The Week," which will cover all major news events of the previous week, makes it clear that Time is still, first and foremost, a news magazine. Traditional headings that were once stand-alone sections -- World, Nation, Business -- will now be included in this section.
Sometimes, an item will appear as a news brief and also get longer, more thoughtful treatment farther on in the magazine. This week, for instance, the cover features a negative image of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. A news brief on the New York Democratic Presidential primary, which he won, is in "The Week" and an analytical article on Mr. Clinton is in the middle section of the magazine, which editors refer to as "the well."
"The new architecture will help us even further clarify that we are a news magazine," Mr. Muller said. " 'The Week' will have an institutional voice, as Time magazine used to have. It will not be a dull voice, but a voice with authority and with some brio. But the tone and substance of 'the well' should be that of news analysis -- thoughtful, analytical, professional journalism."
He added, "I don't want any part of Time magazine to impose a view on readers, but rather to help them think and give them information."
 
Series of Unsettling Events
 Time, once the most confident voice of its generation, has been through a succession of unsettling events recently, including a staff reduction last fall and a recent management shake-up at its parent, Time Warner Inc. And the magazine is facing increasingly competitive outside pressures for its readers' time. As its editors struggled to redefine the magazine's voice, its business side fought to minimize the effects of the worst recession in magazine publishing in several decades.
Although Time does not disclose specific financial data, its publisher, Elizabeth P. Valk, described the magazine as "very profitable."
"I can't give out actual numbers, but I can assure you this is a very healthy franchise," she said. "I am very comfortable with our four million rate base and expect that we will continue viewing circulation as a profit center and take some of the burden off the advertising side."
Last year, Time's ad pages showed a decline of 20.6 percent from 1990. For the first three months this year, advertising is holding about even with last year.
 
Cost of the Redesign
 Ms. Valk said no extra staff had been added for the redesign. Mr. Muller estimated the total cost of the redesign at less than $250,000, with most of it going for the rental of the apartment, the installation of extra computers and the testing of the redesign with about 250 people in focus groups around the country.
One of the problems facing Time in recent years was the continuing tug between two rival forces: the reporters in bureaus around the world who gathered the news and the editors in New York who compiled the material and wrote the articles.
Mr. Muller said that probably half of Time's articles were written in the field and the other half in New York, but that the point had become moot.
"After five years of what was sometimes a wrenching transition, the 'bureaus versus New York' question has become a non-issue," he said. "We have happily arrived at a point where we now decide who writes a story based on the judgment as to who best can do it, as opposed to where they work."
As part of Time's view that a news magazine must give readers far more substantial fare than a rehash of yesterday's news, the magazine devotes considerable space to articles like its recent cover pieces on "Evil," "Scientology, the Cult of Greed," "The Simple Life," "California, the Endangered Dream" and "Lost Tribes, Lost Knowledge," which portrayed a New Guinea tribesman on the cover with a straw through his nose.
Time says these cover articles were all best sellers on the newsstand, confirming the editors' opinion that they were an integral part of what a news magazine should be in the 1990's.
The principal architects of the redesign were Rudolph C. Hoglund, the magazine's art director, and Arthur Hochstein, the design director. Walter Bernard, a former art director at Time who oversaw the last redesign of the magazine in 1977 and his partner, Milton Glaser, were also called in as advisers.
"It has really been a tearing down of the whole structure of the magazine to interpret Henry Muller's vision of the magazine and give it form," Mr. Hoglund said.
"It feels right," said John Stacks, chief of correspondents. "This magazine five years into the Muller era does much better journalism than it did before, and the design is meant to highlight that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As Time magazine prepared for the first issue of its redesign, Henry Muller, seated at left, the managing editor, discussed several pages with Rudolph C. Hoglund, standing at left, the art director, and, from right, Walter Isaacson, assistant managing editor, Charlotte J. Quiggle, chief of makeup, Arthur Hochstein, design director, Michele Stephenson, the picture editor, and Andrea Dorfman, assistant editor. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. D1); This week's redesigned cover of Time, left, and last week's cover. The most radical changes in the design can be found inside the magazine. (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: TIME (MAGAZINE) CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (61%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIME (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DESIGN EXECUTIVES (88%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (68%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



436 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Thruway Panel Is to Be Given Broader Power

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo will announce plans on Wednesday to expand the responsibilities of the New York State Thruway Authority as a way to stimulate economic development upstate, a top aide to the Governor said yesterday.
Under the plan, the semi-autonomous authority would assume control of the state's barge canal system, enabling it to collect new revenues from canal fees and long-term leases on land along the waterways, said Mary Ann Crotty, the Governor's director of policy management. That revenue, along with money raised from bonds, tolls and other sources, would be invested in the canal system, the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway and a variety of new projects throughout those parts of the state that abut the 641-mile highway, Ms. Crotty said. 
 "It'll mean economic development and immediate job creation," Ms. Crotty said. "We wanted the Thruway Authority to become the economic catalyst for the upstate region."
 
$312 Million in Tolls
 The Thruway Authority, which raised about $312 million through tolls in 1991, is now primarily charged with maintaining and repairing the long, winding highway, which stretches north from Westchester County to Albany, before veering west, past Buffalo, to the Pennsylvania border. The canal system, which includes the Erie Canal and several smaller upstate waterways, is currently run by the state Department of Transportation, Ms. Crotty said.
Ms. Crotty declined to estimate how much money the plan would generate in its first year, nor would she discuss the specific projects that would be financed. Ms. Crotty said Thruway tolls would not be raised to pay for the plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY THRUWAY AUTHORITY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY THRUWAY AUTHORITY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE BARGE CANAL; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TOLLS CANALS & WATERWAYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) THOMAS E DEWEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



437 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: PENSIONS COVERING LOWER PERCENTAGE OF U.S. WORK FORCE

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
The share of America's work force covered by company pensions is shrinking, reversing a decades-old trend of steady growth.
Last year, an estimated 43 percent of workers participated in company pension plans, down from a peak of 49 percent in 1979. While women's participation in pension plans held almost steady, the drop for younger blue-collar men was far steeper than for the work force as a whole. 
 "Pensions are an important part of the private safety net," said David E. Bloom, an economist at Columbia University. "That safety net seems to have developed a tear that got wider during the 1980's."
 
A Frayed Safety Net
 The pension safety net is being frayed by the same powerful forces -- paltry growth in productivity, the globalization of industry, the computer revolution -- that have slowed average gains in wages, sharply widened income disparities and produced an outright decline in blue-collar pay and union membership.
"The groups that were hurt worst in terms of pension coverage -- the young, the male, the less educated -- were those whose real wages and employment fell most," Mr. Bloom said. He and Richard B. Freeman, an economist at Harvard University, have recently completed a study, "The Fall in Private Pension Coverage in the U.S.," that is about to be published in the proceedings of the American Economics Association.
William E. Even, associate director of the Center for Pension and Retirement Research at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, said, "The decline increases the likelihood that these workers will postpone retirement, be poorer when they do retire and rely more heavily on Social Security and other Government transfers."
 
Changing Labor Market
 To be sure, the decline in pension coverage could turn around before most of today's workers retire, should the broad trends that have been buffeting the United States labor market change direction. But there are few strong reasons to anticipate such a reversal.
In the meantime, the pool of money available for business investment could become more limited if a smaller proportion of the work force is enrolled in pension plans. Such a decline would further depress America's low saving rate and compound the problem of slow productivity and wage growth.
"Pensions are the way Americans save," said John B. Shoven, an economist at Stanford University, noting that two-thirds of Americans have no savings other than the equity in their homes and pensions.
In the last decade, pension assets tripled in dollar terms, thanks entirely to the rise in the stock market. That rise equals the entire increase in the nation's wealth -- the broadest measure of savings -- for that period.
On average, company pensions now provide 17 percent of the income of people 55 and older, while Social Security provides 38 percent and personal savings 25 percent. That portion provided by pensions has more than doubled from 30 years ago, and it has been growing faster than income from Social Security, which, in any case, was never meant to be the sole, or even main, source of support for elderly people. The average includes people without pensions, wealthy people with large investment incomes and people who continue to work.
 
Proposals in Congress
 One measure of the concern in Washington over receding pension coverage is that a half-dozen bills have been introduced in Congress, all primarily intended to make it cheaper and easier for small businesses to offer pensions. Small businesses created most of the 20 million new jobs in the 1980's expansion.
"It's hard to find anyone in this town who is unconcerned," said Richard Ippolito, chief economist of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Government agency that insures company plans.
To most people, the turnabout in pension coverage has come as something of a surprise. Not so many years ago, Peter Drucker, the management consultant, was predicting an era of "pension socialism" when workers would wind up owning most of the nation's wealth.
But by the end of the 1980's, the average paycheck, adjusted for inflation, was no bigger than a typical worker's pay in 1979. Pay declined outright for that half of the work force with only high school educations or less. While the earnings of young white women with college degrees rose 1.4 percent a year during the 1980's, for example, those of young white men with high school degrees, whose pay still exceeds that of their female counterparts, fell by roughly the same amount.
 
What Workers Prefer
 "If you earn less, you want to save less," said Professor Bloom, who, like other labor economists, thinks of the compensation mix -- how much cash, how much in deferred forms like health coverage or pensions -- as a reflection of workers' preferences.
By the same token, companies had less incentive to offer pensions. "Most companies in my industries have only union employees on a pension plan and most nonunion companies have none," said Henry S. Hilaire, the owner of Central Connecticut Acoustics Inc., a commercial construction contractor, in Wallingford. "Quality people are standing in line to get work. You can get them without offering a pension."
In addition, union membership, which is practically synonymous with pension coverage, has fallen sharply among its biggest beneficiaries, the young and less educated, for reasons that include a less favorable legal climate for unions and fierce foreign competition. In the 1980's, among white men under 35, union membership plummeted by two-thirds among high school dropouts and by nearly half among high school graduates.
 
Without Union Benefits
 "When the union puts you to work, union contractors are required to pay into the union benefit fund," said Robert A. Carroll, 26 years old, a carpenter and member of Local 210 in central Connecticut, who recently has had to take nonunion jobs. "Most nonunion contractors don't cover you until you've been there for a year, and you may not be vested for 10 years. That's hard because everybody in the construction trades goes from job to job."
Thus, it appears that the same economic forces have reduced the demand for less-educated, less-skilled workers, and along the way hurt pension coverage as well.
Some aspects of the pension reforms that were started in the mid- 1970's and early 1980's in an effort to spread coverage may have worsened the decline. These aspects include broadening eligibility, requiring earlier vesting and the creation of 401(k) plans -- tax-deferred retirement plans to which employees contribute and to which employers may also contribute.
 
Shift in Types of Plans
 Among other things, the reforms led to a sharp turn away from traditional defined-benefit plans, under which companies promise a specific benefit level, to defined-contribution plans. Under defined contribution, benefits are determined by how well the pension funds' investments per the 1980's, defined-contribution plans, including the 401(k), doubled as a share of all plans.
"There's an unsettling feeling that in the long run, defined-contribution plans just aren't going to be delivering as much retirement income," said Mr. Ippolito of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
 
When Workers Have a Choice
 The defined-contribution plans are not necessarily less generous. Rather, the problem is that such plans are more often voluntary and offer more opportunities for workers to take their money out. A new study by Mr. Even of Miami University and his colleague David A. Macpherson shows that participation in 401(k) plans may have accelerated the decline in coverage among young men.
Young men, whose pay was being squeezed, more often chose not to join a pension plan so as to get more pay up front. Earlier research showed that young workers were only half as likely to join 401(k) plans as older workers. But Mr. Even and Mr. Macpherson discovered that participation rates among men in their 20's and 30's actually declined, from 86 percent to 78 percent, during the 1980's. Among workers in their late 30's to early 50's the rate also declined, but by only half as much.
In 1988, for example, more than 33 percent of the younger men surveyed had the opportunity to be in a 401(k); fewer than 20 percent chose to do so.
And enrollment in 401(k) plans does not necessarily mean that young workers are building retirement savings. Young workers, who typically change jobs frequently, often choose to cash out of voluntary retirement savings plans, according to a study by Emily S. Andrews, senior researcher at Mathematica Policy Research of Washington.
 
Spend Now, Save Later
 If the money is used as a down payment for a house, retirement wealth may not be affected, but often it is used to pay for a car or a vacation or to make ends meet.
"By any definition of saving, younger people are much more likely to spend their lump-sum distributions," Ms. Andrews said.
That was exactly the experience of Edward J. Bandeira, 25, a laborer who drives a truck for a commercial Sheetrock contractor in Newtown, Conn. After the commercial real estate market slumped, Mr. Bandeira opted for a $4,000 lump sum from his union annuity fund. "I moved down to Florida," he said. "I rented an apartment. I spent it. It lasted me almost two years."
Will pension participation stay down? On the one hand, recent record college enrollments suggest that the supply of highly educated workers will expand. That would depress the relative wages of those with B.A.'s or better but lift the relative wages of those who quit schooling after high school. "The question is how much and whether it will be enough to bail this group out," Mr. Freeman said.
On the other hand, increasingly sophisticated technology and globalization could also continue to keep the demand for the less educated and less skilled lagging behind supply.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Declining Pension Coverage" shows declining number of workers with private pensions among various age groups and education levels from 1979 to 1988.
 
"Less Coverage" shows percentage of private-sector workers, 16 and older, covered by pensions, 1951-1991. (Sources: David E. Bloom of Columbia University and Richard B. Freeman of Harvard University) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS; LABOR LABOR FORCE (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (54%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA DAVID E BLOOM (63%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



438 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Worries Over Another Big Developer

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, April 12

 BODY:
Olympia & York is not the only real estate developer that has bankers worried on both sides of the Atlantic. Heron International, one of Britain's largest privately owned companies, is doing its best to counter fears that it is on the brink of collapse.
Last week, investors and investment bankers placed Heron's bonds into technical default, meaning that bondholders could demand immediate repayment, though a spokesman for Heron stressed that the investors had not done so and would not necessarily take such action. 
 A diversified real estate company with extensive holdings in the United States, Britain and Continental Europe, Heron was especially hard hit by depressed American property prices and the British recession.
 
From Manhattan to Sun Valley
 In the United States, its properties include a 50.1 percent interest in the Heron Tower, a 144,000-square-foot office building at 70 East 55th Street in Manhattan between Park and Madison Avenues, and the Heron Building, a 213,000-square-foot building in downtown Los Angeles. Construction of the Heron Tower II, another office building on the East Side of Manhattan, was suspended. Heron also owns about 9,000 acres in Sun Valley, Ariz., and apartment buildings and offices in Texas.
After significant write-downs in the last two or three years, Heron estimates that its American holdings are worth about $520 million. Its larger lenders include the Bank of America, Barclays Bank and National Westminster Bank.
Heron is struggling under the burden of about 1.3 billion, or $2.3 billion, of debts, including bank loans of about 850 million and bonds with a face value of about 450 million. It had a pretax loss of about 100 million, or about $173.6 million, for the year ended March 31, the first loss of its history.
 
Seeks Debt Agreement
 Gerald M. Ronson, chairman and co-founder of Heron, surprised lenders and bondholders on March 27 by announcing that he was seeking a meeting to reschedule principal and interest payments. He also suspended the trading of Heron's bonds. He met with officials of 82 banks and lead managers of the bond issues on April 3. While he asked for an easier payment schedule, he promised that full principal and interest would be paid.
Heron was weakened by its disastrous 1980 acquisition of Pima Savings, a savings and loan association in Tucson, Ariz. Pima rapidly increased its real estate lending in the 1980's. By the end of the decade, like hundreds of other savings and loans, it was in deep trouble as real estate prices plunged and developers could not repay loans.
The plunge in real estate prices, especially in the United States, caused Heron's net asset value -- or its assets minus its liabilities -- to sink to about 135 million, or $234.3 million, in the last fiscal year, from 585 million, or $1.02 billion, the previous year. That meant that Heron stood to breach some loan covenants by September.
Heron said it intended to sell about 1 billion, or $1.77 billion, of real estate in the next seven years, including most of its American properties, to put its financial house in order.
Since March 27, when Heron announced that it had requested the meeting with lenders, it has stressed that it does not face a liquidity crisis and that it has more than 100 million, or $177 million, in cash. It said it could have carried on until the end of 1993, when it would have had to make some large debt repayments, but acted now in order to deal with its difficulties in an orderly manner.
Fears that lenders might panic and bring about Heron's collapse heightened last week, when most of its bonds, which trade on German, Swiss and Luxembourg exchanges, were put into technical default. Heron's decision to seek changes in the terms for its loans and bonds entitled bondholders or their lead managers to take that action. Since the bonds resumed trading, their prices have dipped only slightly.
The lead managers scheduled their first meeting for Zurich on Monday to coordinate their strategy.
Mr. Ronson, 52 years old, is a leading philanthropist in the British business community, which has helped him to win acceptance in the country's clubby and class-conscious establishment. He founded Heron in 1955 with his father, a Russian Jew who fled pogroms early in the century and settled in Britain.
In 1990, Mr. Ronson was convicted of an illegal plan to support the stock price of Guinness P.L.C. He served about six months in prison and was fined $9.7 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: HERON INTERNATIONAL HERON INTERNATIONAL PLC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERON INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (92%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN GERALD M RONSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



439 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: New Leadership Style at World Bank

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
The former commercial banker who now heads the World Bank has brought corporate American management practices to the international lending agency, revamping its vast and highly paid bureaucracy. So far, he has forgone his predecessors' role in setting economic development priorities around the globe.
The reorganization by Lewis T. Preston, the former chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company in New York who became president of the bank on Sept. 1, may have made the institution more nimble in responding to crises. 
 But the elimination of a tier of senior managers and the transfer of 240 front-office administrators to lending jobs has confused and angered many officials, who find it harder to figure out who is making decisions and why.
Mr. Preston's critics contend that his reluctance to take public stands on issues has left the institution and the economic development community without a clear mission in the 1990's.
"Other than some internal reorganization, I don't get the feeling he has left any personal impact," said Richard E. Feinberg, an economist who has written a book about the World Bank and is now the president of Inter-American Dialogue, a nonprofit research group on economic development in the Western Hemisphere based here.
"Preston has not yet grabbed the gavel that is at the disposal of the president of the World Bank to organize international efforts for clearly defined goals," he said.
Since President Bush tapped him to head the bank, Mr. Preston said in an interview last week, he has been learning about development economics. In the meantime, he said, he was concerning himself with helping the former Soviet republics and applying the managerial skills he learned in New York.
"Development lending is very different from commercial lending -- development issues are relatively new to me," he said. "So I think probably one instinctively goes to areas where one has had some experience, and management is one of those for me."
 
More Loans Possible
 Mr. Preston said that the third world needed more and better business schools and medical schools and that the bank might increase its loans for third-world infrastructure projects now that many countries had their foreign debts under control.
The World Bank is a 156-nation lending institution created at the end of World War II to rebuild Western Europe. In the late 1950's, it began shifting its focus to lending money for specific projects in the third world, like building dams, schools and clinics.
More recently, the bank has begun lending large sums to debt-ridden third world countries, to help entire sectors of their economies. The bank's frequent partner, the International Monetary Fund, provides loans and advice to rich and poor countries to help them maintain stable currencies and overall economic growth.
Mr. Preston, who suffers from occasional back pain, spent most of the interview slouched in the corner of an carved-wood sofa covered in glossy bright purple silk. A little more than 6 feet tall and still lean at 65 years old, he wore a dark blue suit and stopped twice to discuss his expensive collection of wild bird paintings on the walls of his two-story penthouse office here.
He pointed out a picture by John James Audubon showing an eagle diving onto a quail in a flurry of brown feathers. "That one was always over my sofa in New York," he said with satisfaction. "A bunch of the clients complained about feeling a little like the quail."
Many World Bank officials may also know the feeling. Less than three weeks after taking office last year, Mr. Preston said he was eliminating the top level of the bank's management, three longtime senior vice presidents who had run competing bureaucratic baronies.
Mr. Preston replaced them with three managing directors, who hold advisory positions and ordered the bank's 16 vice presidents to report directly to him. One senior vice president became the vice president for Europe and the Soviet Union, another became a managing director and the third retired.
 
No Big Shifts Planned
 Coupled with the mass transfers of executive officials to lending jobs, the change concentrated power over the 6,000-employee organization in Mr. Preston's hands. He said in the interview that he planned no more dramatic personnel shuffles and expressed little sympathy for the 240 executives he had transferred.
"Hopefully, they're doing something more productive," he said.
Mr. Preston's admirers within the bank say he has prevailed over a bureaucracy that has resisted change since the days of Robert S. McNamara, the former Defense Secretary who headed the institution from 1968 to 1981.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; PRESTON, LEWIS T GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



440 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Analysts Expect Another Fed Cut

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board has lowered short-term interest rates by six full percentage points over the last 34 months, but a substantial number of credit market analysts say the Fed has not yet finished easing monetary policy.
Last week's cut in the overnight Federal funds rate was seen by some analysts as insurance against possible renewed weakness in the economy. 
 At 3.75 percent, the funds rate now sits at its lowest level in 20 years. But many analysts said the economic benefits of the quarter-point cut engineered by the Fed last week were negligible. Moreover, the conditions that prompted the Fed to move last week show few signs of evaporating anytime soon.
 
Significant, but Not in Size
 The Fed's action "was more significant in the message than the size of the move," Thomas J. Sowanick, senior fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, wrote in a weekly letter to clients.
He continued: "That message underscores the fragility of the global financial markets, assorted political uncertainties and tenuous domestic economic growth. The method of easing also indicates a return to an approach of gradualism. That, in turn, suggests the Fed remains biased toward additional easing."
Steven Slifer, an executive vice president and financial market economist at Lehman Brothers, said the 25 basis points would not do much for the economy because it would not move the prime rate at all. "It will take another quarter-point cut to do that, and I think we can count on that happening in fairly short order," he said.
There has not been much of a pickup in loan demand since commercial banks cut the prime to 6.5 percent at the end of last year. And recent financial troubles in Japan and elsewhere suggest that foreign banks, which have been far more willing to extend credit over the last year than their domestic counterparts, may be forced to curb lending.
 
Decline in Loans and Leases
 According to Federal Reserve data, for the 52 weeks ended on March 25, the volume of loans and leases on the books of American banks had fallen by $70 billion. During the same period, loans extended by branches of foreign banks had increased by $17 billion.
Until and unless bank credit extension revives, money growth will probably remain modest, analysts said. Weak money supply figures for March were widely seen as one reason the Fed chose to lower the funds rate last week.
"We have found out that mild recovery is not enough if it is accompanied by slow money growth," said Robert DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Brothers. "And I am not so sure we are going to get rapid money growth on a sustained basis anytime soon."
As a consequence, Mr. DiClemente said, "you can't rule out another round of easing by the Fed, not necessarily in the next couple of weeks, but over time."
 
Inflation Seen as Benign
 Analysts said the deadlock over fiscal policy would also provide the Fed with the latitude to lower short-term rates again if it wished. And most economists say that inflationary pressures remain benign, despite March's worrisome half-point rise in the Consumer Price Index.
"If fiscal policy were in place, I am sure the Fed would not be doing what it is doing," said William Griggs, a managing director at Griggs & Santow Inc., a New York financial consulting firm.
Mr. Slifer said: "If the economy is as soft as I think, the price increases we saw in March won't stick. I still believe that inflation for the year will turn out to be around 2.5 percent."
To be sure, a good number of economists are of the view that the Fed's easing move last week was its last and that better economic times are imminent. Based on price movements in short-term debt securities at the end of last week, that sense seemed to be shared by most credit market participants.
 
Two-Year Treasuries at 5.14%
 Late Friday, two-year Treasury notes, a good proxy for market expectations about changes in Fed policy, were priced to yield 5.14 percent, 1.39 percentage points above the Fed's new target for the funds rate.
"If the market thought there was some chance of a Fed easing, that spread would be closer to 1 percent," one trader said. "It seems like the market thinks that this is it."
Dana Johnson, chief money market economist at the First National Bank of Chicago, said that the Fed's task of reviving the economy had been completed, and that the time of better economic news "is close."
Data to be released this week will probably not carry that positive tone, Mr. Johnson acknowledged.
Along with many of his colleagues, Mr. Johnson expects March industrial production, retail sales and housing-starts statistics to be weaker than they were in February.
"All of the numbers coming up should be helpful to the market," the trader said. "Barring a major surprise, the market should do better, particularly bonds."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRIME RATES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANK BRANCHES (63%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N DANA JOHNSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



441 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Auction Only Bills This Week

 BODY:
This week's Treasury financings are limited to the regular weekly auction today of new three- and six-month bills.
By late in the day Friday, the interest rate of a three-month bill was 3.64 percent; a six-month bill was at 3.76 percent. 
 The following fixed-income issues are scheduled for this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
TUESDAY
Philadelphia Electric Co., $200 million of first and refunding mortgage bonds due in 2002, and $150 million of first and refunding mortgage bonds due in 2022. All of the bonds are rated Baa-2/BBB. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., 20 million shares of $25-a-share preferred stock, rated Aa-3.Merrill Lynch.
Food 4 Less Supermarkets Inc., $150 million of senior notes due in 2000, rated Ba-3 by Moody's. BT Securities.
KHE Finance Inc., $100 million of subordinated notes due in 2002, B-1/B. Kidder, Peabody & Co.
Meditrust, $50 million to $75 million of convertible subordinated debentures due in 2002. Natwest Investor Services.
Payless Cashways Inc., $200 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2002, B-1/B+. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Standard Pacific Corp., $100 million of senior notes due in 1999, Ba-1/BB. Merrill Lynch.
 
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch Inc.; Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's.)
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Dade County, Fla., $153.5 million of general-obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Bergen County (N.J.) Sewer Authority, $140 million of debt securities. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc.
Connecticut Health and Education, $51 million in debt securities. Paine Webber.
Cook County, Ill., $200 million of general-obligation bonds. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Hudson County, N.J., $133.9 million in certificates of participation. First Boston Corp.
Massachusetts Health and Education, $83 million of debt securities for Northeastern University. Lehman Brothers.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $130 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Paine Webber.
Omaha Public Power District, $150 million of electric system bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Port of Corpus Christi and Red River Authority, Tex., with both offerings totaling $70 million in pollution-control revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Port of Seattle, Wash., $161 million of revenue and subordinated-lien revenue bonds. Paine Webber.
Shelby County, Tenn., $78 million of general-obligation refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County, Ill., $53 million of revenue bonds. John Nuveen & Co.
Wisconsin Housing, $72.9 million of revenue bonds. First Boston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); SPF (NYSE) (82%); EXC (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (82%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (81%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (72%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (72%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (70%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); STANDARD PACIFIC CORP (82%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (81%); EXELON CORP (72%); PECO ENERGY CO (72%); FOOD 4 LESS SUPERMARKETS INC (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (69%); PAYLESS CASHWAYS INC (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (52%); OMAHA PUBLIC POWER DISTRICT (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); RIVERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



442 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Rates Down in Week

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12

 BODY:
Mortgage rates fell significantly last week for the first time this year, and economists predicted further modest declines in the weeks ahead.
Thirty-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 8.84 percent last week, down from 8.96 percent in the previous week, according to a national survey released today by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, known as Freddie Mac. 
 It was the third consecutive decline since rates hit a high of 9.03 percent for the year during the week ended March 20. It was also the sharpest decline since late December.
Analysts expect rates to continue to drop in coming weeks, but not past the 19-year low of 8.23 percent established in the week that ended on Jan. 10.
On Thursday, the Federal Reserve nudged its target for a key short-term interest rate to 3.75 percent, from 4 percent. The action resulted in a decline in long-term interest rates on bonds, which often serve as a benchmark for mortgage rates.
On one-year adjustable rate mortgages, Freddie Mac said lenders were asking an average initial rate of 6.15 percent, down from 6.22 percent last week. The rates do not include add-on fees known as points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE LOANS (95%); INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); MORTGAGE RATES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



443 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: The Talk of Hollywood;
2 Titans Clash And All of Filmdom Feels Shock Waves

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, April 12

 BODY:
Forget Bill Clinton and Jerry Brown trashing each other. Forget George Bush and Pat Buchanan. In Hollywood terms, the most highly charged exchange is between two of the most powerful players, Michael Ovitz, the chairman of the Creative Artists Agency, and Jeffrey Katzenberg, the chairman of the Walt Disney studios.
Some film executives say it was actually a shouting match, which is the way people often talk to each other in this town. But what gives the dispute particular resonance is the fact that both men are, despite their enormous success, very sensitive to criticism. And when Michael and Jeffrey, as they are locally known, go at it over the phone, it has some of the same impact here as, say, George Bush in Washington picking up the phone and yelling at Mario Cuomo in New York. The earth trembles. 
 The dispute began several weeks ago when Mr. Katzenberg was one of several film executives to address a conference in New York on the shifting economics of the entertainment industry. The gathering was sponsored by Variety, the entertainment trade weekly, and the investment banking firm of Wertheim Schroder. At the conference, several executives, including Joe Roth, the chairman of the 20th Century Fox Film Corporation, and Mr. Katzenberg, cited the powerful leverage of agents as contributing to the rising costs of making movies. Mr. Katzenberg later had an off-the-record luncheon with some reporters and echoed, in blunter terms, the same theme.
Word got back to Mr. Ovitz that Mr. Katzenberg had singled him out. One film executive who attended the lunch said Mr. Ovitz was not mentioned by name. But Mr. Ovitz, who is arguably the most powerful man in Hollywood, was angry and phoned Mr. Katzenberg. Some people close to Mr. Ovitz insist that the conversation was perfectly pleasant. But in fact, it appeared to be a dialogue, Hollywood-style, with plenty of histrionics. Depending on the source -- whether it's Creative Artists or Disney -- the other guy behaved very badly. In a small town like Hollywood, the Katzenberg-Ovitz battle was carried on about as discreetly as the gulf war.
An uneasy detente now prevails. The two men had a pleasant conversation on Friday in advance of the grand opening of Euro Disney in Marne-la-Vallee, France. They will probably have an official rapprochement one of these days at a front table at Morton's, the executive hang-out.
That's the way peace is declared in Hollywood.
 
Who Goes When
 Harrison Ford is playing chicken with Tom Cruise. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are, let's face it, too awesome to match. And the Mohicans are plainly shying away from Batman.
It's that nervous time of year in Hollywood when studios, with tens of millions of dollars at risk, are watching one another suspiciously to find the best opening weekend for their big spring and summer releases. Moviegoers in the real world may not think the first few days after a film opens are especially significant, but in Hollywood an opening weekend is nothing less than life and death. A film that opens strongly -- the most powerful openers in recent years were "Terminator 2: Judgment Day," "Back to the Future 2" and "Batman" -- create an enormous psychological and financial wave into which studios toss more money for advertising and hype. Films that perform poorly on opening weekend are treated like mongrels.
"You see what the competition is, you try to deftly position the film, and hope for the best," said Paula Silver, the president of marketing at Columbia Pictures. "This July, for example, we have 'A League of Their Own.' It's about something everyone loves: baseball. Directed by Penny Marshall. With Tom Hanks, Geena Davis, Madonna, Jon Lovitz. You want to take advantage of major-league baseball in July. People will have sports on their minds; the Olympics will be starting after we open. It's a family picture, when people are on vacation and want to see a funny movie. And, of course, I want to be away from those 800-pound gorillas like 'Lethal Weapon 3' or 'Batman Returns.' You don't want to be on top of those."
It is the 800-pound gorillas, and the thought of the Olympics -- which will certainly keep countless potential moviegoers at home -- that makes competing studios cringe. There will be a half-dozen or so 800-pounders -- expensive, star-cluttered movies, many of them sequels -- barreling into theaters over the next few months. Some may collapse under their own weight, and there are rumors that a couple of them are duds. But because the summer is a peak moviegoing time, the studios are jostling one another in their own game of gladiators.
Recently, 20th Century Fox, after a series of high-level meetings, decided to delay the opening of one of its major films, "Last of the Mohicans," starring Daniel Day-Lewis, from July 3 to July 10. "We wanted a week more between ourselves and 'Batman,' " said Tom Sherak, executive vice president of Fox, referring to Warner Brothers' $50 million "Batman Returns," with Michael Keaton, Michelle Pfeiffer and Danny DeVito. It is to open on June 19. (By all accounts, virtually every studio is worried about competing with the sequel to 1989's "Batman," which grossed more than $251 million.)
The most serious game of chicken is taking place between Universal Pictures and Paramount. Universal is betting millions on "Far and Away," a lush romantic drama, set in the 1890's, about an Irish tenant farmer who meets and marries a wealthy woman and immigrates with her to the American West. Studio officials say the film, which stars Tom Cruise and his wife, Nicole Kidman, is skewed to women of all ages and men over 21. Paramount is placing a hefty investment in "Patriot Games," the sequel to "The Hunt for Red October," starring Harrison Ford as the C.I.A. analyst Jack Ryan.
Because both films appeal to similar audiences, (the male stars are big favorites among women), the studios have been jockeying for weeks for opening dates. Initially, "Far and Away," was set to open on June 5. But upon hearing that "Patriot Games" was planning to go head to head with it, Tom Pollock, the chairman of the MCA Motion Picture Group, moved "Far and Away" to May 22, the start of the Memorial Day weekend.
And why did Paramount select (for the moment) June 5 for "Patriot Games"? Because it wanted to distance itself as much as possible from another megamovie, "Lethal Weapon 3," which Warner Brothers will release on May 15.
Fueling the competition for "Far and Away" is Fox's "Aliens 3," starring Sigourney Weaver, which is also scheduled to open Memorial Day weekend. Mr. Sherak, who said the success of the two previous "Alien" films gave this one a powerful built-in audience, emphasized that he was always concerned about the competition. A low-budget Disney film, "Encino Man," intended to appeal to the "Wayne's World" teen-age set, is also opening on May 22 and could prove a surprise despite the big movies.
Richard W. Cook, the president of Disney's Buena Vista Distribution, said such modestly priced films as "Encino Man," and a new comedy, "Sister Act," which is to open on May 29, could very well overcome the gorillas. "Sister Act" stars Whoopi Goldberg and Maggie Smith, and the reaction of preview audiences has buoyed Disney. "It's not much different from the summer that we had 'Dead Poets Society,' against 'Indiana Jones,' 'Star Trek,' 'Ghostbusters' and 'Batman,' " Mr. Cook said.
But Barry L. London, the president of Paramount's Motion Picture Group/World Wide Distribution, put it another way: "If you know an 800-pound gorilla is coming, you move to avoid it or get ahead. You don't get in its way."
 
In the Public Eye
 William P. Lauch finds himself an unlikely celebrity. A soft-spoken 36-year-old architect who lives in the Hudson Valley village of Cold Spring, N.Y., Mr. Lauch says he is now being recognized everywhere: in the supermarket, on the street, in airports. The reason is that last Monday, on worldwide television, he accepted the Oscar for best song that was awarded posthumously to Howard Ashman, the librettist for "Beauty and the Beast."
In his speech, Mr. Lauch said he and Mr. Ashman had "shared a home and a life together," that he was "happy and proud" to accept the award, and that it was the first Oscar given to anyone who had died of AIDS.
Mr. Lauch acknowledged that his acceptance of the award was, perhaps, a major statement. "It was, like, a small event but a very big step," he said in an interview. "Both the Disney Company and the academy have sort of recognized me as Howard's survivor. That was the point I was trying to make. I've seen so many friends die. And you hear stories about lovers or companions who are ignored or dismissed by the family or lawyers or whatever. They're not considered like spouses. They should be."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EDL (PAR) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (58%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY (BEVERLY HILLS, CALIF); DISNEY, WALT, STUDIOS WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FILM CORP (68%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (58%); EURO DISNEY SCA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY (BEVERLY HILLS, CALIF); DISNEY, WALT, STUDIOS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; OVITZ, MICHAEL S; KATZENBERG, JEFFREY JEFFREY KATZENBERG (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TOM CRUISE (58%); HARRISON FORD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



444 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Adolescents, at Risk

BYLINE: By DIANE CAMPER

 BODY:
Adolescence is a time of frustration -- for teen-agers and parents. It is also a time when youngsters are at risk of school failure, violence, unsafe sex, substance abuse and other behavior that can derail their lives.
How to help adolescents, particularly 10- to 15-year-olds, lead healthier lives is the subject of a new book, "Fateful Choices," by Fred M. Hechinger, former education editor of The New York Times. The book and its themes are being discussed by about 200 education and health experts at a conference sponsored by the Carnegie Corporation's Council on Adolescent Development in Washington, D.C., this week. 
 "Only the years from birth to age three," notes Mr. Hechinger, "match adolescence in the intensity and rapidity of growth and change. Puberty unleashes new energies and desires." It also unleashes a sense of invulnerability and immunity to danger.
Yet of 28 million adolescents aged 10 to 18, 25 percent are engaged in behavior that's harmful to them or others. Another 25 percent are at moderate risk. The other 50 percent, though apparently growing up healthy, are still at risk of later failure because many of them lack problem-solving skills.
The Carnegie Corporation cited similar statistics in a 1989 report aimed at getting middle schools to serve adolescents better. But the spread of AIDS and gun-related violence give the new book greater urgency. Still, it's not too late to turn an adolescent away from risky behavior. In fact, Mr. Hechinger suggests, it's irresponsible not to try. The consequences of unprotected sex, for example, can result not only in pregnancy but death. And the glamorizing of violence on television and in movies coupled with the free flow of guns contributes to increasing violence and death among teen-agers.
That's why he asks the entertainment industry to be more responsible and balanced in its portrayals of violence, substance abuse and sexual behavior. He also sensibly suggests more health services for teens, including school-based clinics that, among other things, would dispense condoms and provide birth control counseling.
"Fateful Choices" argues the need for more communication between adults and teen-agers -- in families, in schools and in communities. "The sad reality is that young adolescents at every economic level are very often neglected by adults -- even within their own families -- or get lost in the mass, victims of large institutions that undermine their healthy development."
Increasingly, aging adults will rely on the skills and employability of teen-agers, too many of whom are growing up unhealthy and alienated. Promoting healthy adolescents ought to have particular resonance during this election year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: FATEFUL CHOICES (BOOK)

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TEENAGERS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ADOLESCENTS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); FAMILY (89%); CONTRACEPTION (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); AGING TRENDS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (68%); AIDS & HIV (67%); AGING (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); ELECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CAMPER, DIANE; HECHINGER, FRED M FRED M HECHINGER (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



445 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: North Korea, Almost Nuclear-Free

 BODY:
Nuclear renegade. That's what many feared North Korea would become -- a nation capable of producing a nuclear bomb, yet so isolated and paranoid that it would not listen to the world's pleas for sanity.
For months, however, North Korea has been moving steadily in sanity's direction. If it can be persuaded to keep going, peaceful coexistence may yet replace years of hardened hostility on the Korean peninsula. North Korea's one-time enemies can do much to achieve that objective. 
 Pyongyang took an extraordinarily encouraging step Thursday when its National Assembly ratified a safeguards accord with the International Atomic Energy Agency. But the agreement calls for one more crucial step: North Korea must open all suspected nuclear sites to international inspection within 90 days.
It's more likely to do so if it receives assurances that such inspections will be followed, in short order, by normal diplomatic relations with Japan and the U.S. and increased trade and investment. The U.S., Japan and South Korea are not obliged to provide such assurances; yet each has a large stake in a nuclear-free Korean peninsula, and persuasive cards to play.
Washington can tell Pyongyang it's ready to establish diplomatic relations once inspections are under way. Seoul can now propose mutual arms cuts. That would allow North Korea to reduce its own defense budget, which absorbs a prohibitively large portion of its gross national product and saps its economic growth.
Japan can pledge essential aid and investment to be delivered once North Korea allows inspections. Pyongyang would be free to claim that the aid was reparations for the grievous suffering Japan caused Korea during decades of occupation.
But before any of these promises can be carried out, North Korea needs to fulfill its obligations both to I.A.E.A. and to South Korea to allow nuclear inspections by July.
Any list provided to the I.A.E.A. should include sites like the suspected reprocessing plant at Yongbyon. South Korea would also be allowed to inspect all the facilities at Yongbyon and at 20-odd other suspect sites in the North. In return, Pyongyang would be entitled to inspect military and other sites in the South that, it thinks, once housed U.S. nuclear arms and related equipment.
Frequent, timely and reciprocal inspections are essential to end decades of hostility and suspicion between North and South. Washington, Seoul and Tokyo can speed this process by assuring North Korea that it will be welcomed back into the family of nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); BUDGETS (65%); DEFENSE SPENDING (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



446 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Peru: Ideals in Hell

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Peru has had little genuine democracy despite 10 years of elections. It has no democracy now that President Alberto Fujimori has overthrown a weak, corrupt constitutional government. And what the U.S. and others are telling him is that he will have no chance to restore order and combat corruption unless he first re-establishes democratic legitimacy -- and quickly.
Mr. Fujimori, a stubborn and solitary technocrat, is not listening. For the moment, his self-coup d'etat with military support seems wildly popular. Peruvians have had it with politicians, poverty, drug lords and a losing fight against fanatical terrorists. 
 Peru thus presents in acute and special form what is fast becoming a central problem in U.S. foreign policy: What to do when democratically elected leaders destroy democracy ostensibly to save it.
The issue here is not Haiti-like cases where the military overthrows a freely chosen president. To almost all such takeovers, the U.S. response has to be condemnation and tough sanctions.
Algeria is a tougher case. The armed forces suspended elections that Muslim fundamentalists were on their way to winning. The military assumed that once the fundamentalists took power in a free election, they would never hold another.
Democratic purists condemned the takeover. But the fears of Algerian generals were far from groundless. The U.S. cannot condone such takeovers, as President Bush at first seemed to do. A hands-off or neutral position better suits the complexities, as Mr. Bush soon realized. But sooner or later, secular rulers of Muslim states will have to come to legitimate terms with their people.
Lech Walesa, high-profile democrat, could face the U.S. with a harder case. He might make good on his occasional noises about dumping the stalemated Polish Parliament and governing by presidential decree.
President Boris Yeltsin, another democrat doing the right things, is already running into such a situation. The Russian Congress, also "freely" elected, is stacked with ex-Communists resisting further reforms. To observe constitutional democratic forms could doom reforms and benefit only anti-democratic hard-liners.
Fortunately, Mr. Yeltsin understands the power of democratic legitimacy. And he is thinking of going over the heads of his Congress directly to the people with a plebiscite on his reforms. Which seems to be just the creative formula the U.S. will suggest to Mr. Fujimori.
Starting today, Bush officials will move on two tracks to push Mr. Fujimori back on the path to democratic legitimacy. Publicly, they will continue to censure the coup and reaffirm the cutoff of new U.S. aid. To do less would be to invite other coups in Latin America and elsewhere. To do otherwise would undermine what has to be a central tenet of U.S. foreign policy.
Privately, the Administration will try to deal with the hellish realities of Peru. The fact is that Mr. Bush and most other American leaders are sympathetic to Mr. Fujimori's battle against corruption, drugs and terrorists. And they do not want to do anything to permanently damage these efforts. That means they will keep diplomatic doors open, continue humanitarian aid and not ask for broad economic sanctions -- if political rivals are not bloodied and democratic legitimacy restored.
The trick is how to bring back democracy without also restoring the corrupt power centers Mr. Fujimori (and Washington) rightly seeks to curtail. Washington's solution, like Yeltsin's, is a plebiscite.
Mr. Fujimori promises to call one. But he wants a simple yes or no vote on his rule, while his opponents remain in jail and army tanks roam the streets.
This gambit will give him a quick victory. But U.S. officials will argue that it will not provide long-term legitimacy or power to call for new congressional elections and judicial appointments, and no hold over his corrupt military allies. Instead, they will urge Mr. Fujimori to seek a mandate from a genuinely free referendum on basic constitutional changes.
Such a democratic coup cum plebiscite is not ideal. But in a world now brimming with new and terribly vulnerable democratic leaders, it might be the only way to retain legitimacy and lay the basis for genuine democracy in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); 

CITY: ORAN, ALGERIA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); ORAN, ALGERIA (51%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFERENDUMS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); RELIGION (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TERRORISM (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1992



447 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: YELTSIN'S CABINET THREATENS TO QUIT IN CONGRESS FEUD

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 13

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin's entire Cabinet formally offered to resign today unless an unexpectedly aggressive Parliament halted efforts to scale back the Government's program of economic reform.
Any such dilution of the Russian President's program could lead the West to reconsider its offer of billions of dollars in assistance and jeopardize Mr. Yeltsin's plans for economic recovery.
Yegor T. Gaidar, the Deputy Prime Minister and chief architect of the economic reforms, said the Cabinet had submitted its resignation en masse, reflecting a growing power struggle between Mr. Yeltsin and the Congress of People's Deputies, the highest legislative authority in Russia.
 
Keep Working, Yeltsin Says
 Mr. Gaidar said Mr. Yeltsin had asked his ministers to continue working until the end of the Congress session in the next few days, when he will decide whether to accept their resignations.
Their action was in protest against a resolution adopted by the Congress on Saturday ordering Mr. Yeltsin to relinquish the post of Prime Minister and to name a new Government within three months, as well as to make broad changes in the economic program, which came under sharp criticism. 
 Cabinet ministers said the changes contained in the resolution ran counter to their goal of sharply reducing Government spending, curtailing the money supply and reining in inflation. The Congress proposals included indexing savings accounts in line with inflation, easing the tax burden, and granting a range of salary increases, all popular with the public.
 
Hope for Compromise
 Many deputies said they still believed that a compromise would be struck to avoid the inevitable economic and political crisis that would follow if the Government followed through on its threat to resign.
At the least, the confrontation has already widened the rift between the President and the Congress, just as Russia stands at what many consider the most fateful juncture of its economic revamping, facing either hyperinflation or widespread unemployment.
The Government, led by young economists, has mapped out a program of strict credit and money controls as a condition for the stable ruble and balanced budget that it says are necesssary for the introduction of a market economy. Many in the Congress, which is dominated by former Communists and other Yeltsin critics, argue in favor of propping up old industries and maintaining the lavish social net that existed under Communism.
The struggle also draws on the Congress's desire to regain some control over the Government, which has been largely ceded to Mr. Yeltsin.
Mr. Yeltsin himself has not attended the Congress or made any public comment since Saturday. But he is expected to speak soon.
Moves to defuse the confrontation later in the day fizzled when the Speaker of the Congress, Ruslan Khasbulatov, a former ally of Mr. Yeltsin who has become increasingly critical of the Government, began sniping at the ministers arrayed before him in the tones he often uses in cajoling the 1,046 deputies to the Congress.
"If they want to resign, let them take it up with those who appointed them," he said. "Let no one try to blackmail us. We're not afraid of blackmail."
Shouts of "Disgrace!" rose from the hall, and Mr. Khasbulatov continued: "Don't bother. There's no disgrace. These fellows are just a bit disoriented."
At this, Gennadi Burbulis, Mr. Yeltsin's chief lieutenant, who had been stonily biting his lip, led a walkout from the hall, and in the ensuing hubbub Mr. Khasbulatov adjourned the session and quickly walked out.
 
No Insult Intended
 Mr. Khasbulatov appeared on television later in the evening insisting that he had not meant to insult the Government, saying: "It was just my old professorial habit, saying hey fellows, don't be miffed. If I did insult you, I apologize."
But by then the battle was joined. Mr. Yeltsin's lieutenants said he would soon make a tough address to the Congress, at which he was expected to threaten it either with a draft constitution entrenching presidential rule, or call for a plebiscite to dissolve Congress. His supporters among the deputies started a petition campaign to unseat Mr. Khasbulatov.
What galled the Government most about the resolution adopted by the Congress on Saturday was the order to Mr. Yeltsin to propose a new prime minister to the Congress within three months, a move that would in effect disband the current governing team.
The Cabinet reacted sharply. The resignation statement made public today had been prepared by the ministers late Saturday.
On Sunday, however, the crisis seemed to wane when members of the Congress presidium met with members of Mr. Yeltsin's Government and worked out a compromise resolution that would soften or neutralize those parts of the earlier document that the ministers found most offensive.
It would affirm the course of economic reforms, would make all the Congress demands contingent on financial feasibility, and would delay the law on the Government until Dec. 1, in effect extending the Government's term until then.
On Monday, however, Mr. Khasbulatov went to a discussion of the Constitution and shrugged off efforts to discuss the Government. When warned that Mr. Gaidar was threatening resignation in the halls, Mr. Khasbulatov said, "Let him walk around to his heart's content."
Instead, Mr. Gaidar then gathered reporters in the halls and made his announcement. The decisions of the Congress would block all further reforms, he declared.
"The requirements made by the Congress dooms the country to hyperinflation," he said. "The inevitable result of implementing these decisions of the Congress will be a catastrophic decline in living standards, famine, social upheavals and chaos."
The West, he warned, would draw back the $24 billion in credits it has proposed as long as Russia stayed the course of reforms. Mr. Yeltsin would become "purely symbolic," and the country would embark on a path of "irresponsible populism."
"Using the pretext of tighter control of the Government by the legislative branch, they in effect deny that Government and the President the possibility of pursuing the policy of economic reforms aimed at the revival of Russia," he said.
 
Municipal Government Support
 Mr. Gaidar said all ministers had signed the resignation statement, and within an hour, the Moscow municipal government announced that if the federal Government walked out, it would resign in solidarity.
Mr. Gaidar added that the Cabinet would reconsider if the Congress altered its resolutions or "if the President makes a decision allowing us to function as we must." In the meantime, Mr. Gaidar said, Mr. Yeltsin had asked the Cabinet to carry on until the end of the Congress.
Although there was no comment from Mr. Yeltsin, there was no doubt that he would plunge into the fray when he believed the time was ripe.
There was considerable speculation on what Mr. Yeltsin might do. "Whether the current Government continues the reforms until the results can be judged or whether it steps aside depends entirely and fully on President Yeltsin," Izvestia said on a front page dedicated almost entirely to the drama in the Congress.
In his television appearance, Mr. Khasbulatov showed little intention of backing away from the battle. He accused Mr. Gaidar of taking advice from the International Monetary Fund too "unconditionally," and proposed that Mr. Burbulis and Mr. Gaidar save money by cutting back on their large Government bureaucracy.
"Some members of the Government want to come out from under parliamentary control," he said. "Yes, they are under the President. But they also answer to Parliament."
That seemed to be the key to the battle. An ambitious economist and lawyer who was elected Speaker only through Mr. Yeltsin's arduous intervention, Mr. Khasbulatov seemed determine to regain some of the parliamentary control that was lost when the Congress granted the President temporary powers to rule by decree and to name the Government directly.
 
Khasbulatov Gains Support
 The voting indicated that Mr. Khasbulatov had found support not only among the former Communists, who make up about one-third of the Congress, but also among centrists and "democrats" who share an unease about what they considered a high-handed and secretive team that has taken shape around Mr. Burbulis.
Government ministers, for their part, accused Mr. Khasbulatov of trying to assert personal control over the Congress and Government.
Adding to the confusion was the fact that the Congress, unlike the smaller Supreme Soviet it picks to carry on routine legislative work, has no mechanism of committees or experts to work over documents before they come to the floor. So much of the session is spent haggling over texts, and many still emerge legally flawed.
The resolution on economic reforms, for instance, underwent 370 changes on Saturday, and Sergei Filatov, a Deputy Speaker, conceded that the Congress might well have let slip elements that inadvertently contradicted existing economic policies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; LEGISLATURES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); POLITICS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS N YELTSIN (96%); RUSLAN KHASBULATOV (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



448 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: Chicago's Loop Is Closed Down As River's Water Floods Tunnels

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 13

 BODY:
All business halted in the heart of downtown Chicago this morning and tens of thousands of office workers were sent home after 250 million gallons of water from the Chicago River leaked into underground tunnels and, from there, flooded into basements.
Fearing that the water would short-circuit electrical systems in the tunnels and in the buildings, the city shut off power to much of the Loop, the city's central business district. Officials said the electricity might not be restored Tuesday. 
 It was a most improbable flood: The streets were dry except for puddles of dingy water pumped from basements, and no injuries were reported. But structural and economic damage threatened to be considerable, and the loss of power immobilized many of the city's major institutions. The aisles and counters at the Marshall Field department store went dark. Trials were suspended at Cook County Circuit Court. City Hall was evacuated. So was the Sears Tower, the world's tallest building, with its 7,000 workers.
The Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the primary markets in futures contracts on everything from wheat to stock indexes, were both closed. [Page D21.]
"Closed" signs went up and steel curtains came down on the discount jewelers and shoe shops on State Street. At the Palmer House Hotel bellhops used flashlights to guide guests through darkened halls.
And throughout the business district of the nation's third-largest city telephone calls and staff meetings were stopped in mid-sentence as office workers streamed out of their buildings.
At 11:15 A.M., an hour after city officials warned that they were pulling the plug on the Loop, the lights went out in a 12-square-block area and the city urged evacuation of the entire 100-block downtown area.
The flooding was the result of a breach the size of an automobile in the roof of a freight tunnel underneath the Chicago River. The break sent 250 million gallons of murky river water into the tunnels and the basements connected to them.
Decades ago, the tunnels, 40 miles of crisscrossing passageways, were used to haul coal to buildings in the Loop, and, local lore has it, whisky in Al Capone's bootlegging operation. They have been out of use for 30 years, but contain electrical and fiber-optics circuitry that keep downtown offices running.
 
Breach Near New Pilings
 The breach occurred inches from wood pilings the city had installed in the river last summer to protect a nearby bridge from boats that might slip their moorings.
But today, as city workers dumped stones and sandbags, and later concrete, into the river in an effort to plug the hole that sucked the water into the tunnel below, city officials offered no explanation for the cause of the breach.
"This is a very serious problem," said Mayor Richard M. Daley in an afternoon news conference where tensions were high and answers were short. "We can't give any answers as to who's responsible."
The river is so murky and volatile that no one has actually seen the rupture and it is unclear how it occurred. The tunnel's ceiling is 15 to 20 feet below the river bottom, separated by a concrete casing built in the late 1890's that has become old and cracked, city officials said.
 
Police Assigned to Area
 "Essentially, there is a hole in the bottom of the river," said Earl Knight, the general superintendent of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District, which is in charge of the area's sewer and water treatment. "It may have developed from a small leak that got bigger and bigger and, then caved in. It could have been a slow leak that led to a sudden break. It may have developed over time."
Later in the day Mayor Daley said the city had begun an investigation, "We are talking to everybody, looking for memos and information on it," he said. "Yes, people did know about it before. These people are going to be held accountable."
Raymond Orosco, the Chicago Fire Commissioner, said that the Loop would probably not have electricity until Tuesday or Wednesday. With the lights out and some downtown burglar alarm systems on hold, the city assigned 200 police officers to the Loop tonight to deter possible looting.
A primary concern today was figuring out how to get the water out of the tunnels before it turned putrid. To do that, the city plans to drill a hole through the old freight tunnel, which is about 40 feet below ground, to a new and larger sewage tunnel 200 feet below. The city wants to drain the water from the old tunnel system by connecting it to a vertical drop shaft that would send the water into the sewage tunnel.
The polluted river water would then flow to a pumping station for treatment before being put back into the river.
"It will take a couple of days to really get down there, break through and make a connection," said Nicholas Melas, president of the board of commissioners of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District.
The trouble began early this morning when workers found the basements flooded in the older buildings that are linked to the old tunnel. City workers found the source of the flooding when they saw a whirlpool in the Chicago River, like water funneling down a drain, near the Kinzie Street Bridge.
By 10 A.M., city officials realized that electrical equipment in tunnels and basement was soaked and announced that downtown offices would have to be evacuated. By 11:15, the lights had gone out in most of the Loop, the downtown blocks that are encircled by elevated train tracks.
 
Upset for Business
 "This is a disaster," said Eugene T. Sherman, a partner in a downtown law firm who was carrying work home. "This will be a $100 million loss for businesses. This will affect not only Chicago, but the world we do business with."
Work on his firm's cases ceased in an instant. "The phones are down, the secretaries are gone," his son, Thomas, also a lawyer loaded down with briefs, said. "We can't get to the files in the courthouse. We can't meet our deadlines."
Over at City Hall, workers frantically moved computers and copying machines and boxes of birth and marriage certificates out of the basement storage offices that were quickly being overtaken by river water. Some of the records were original and one of a kind and dated back to the Chicago fire of 1871. Today they took up half the lobby at City Hall, as water reached within 18 inches of the ceiling of their former storage place.
A few blocks away, water was being pumped out of the basement of Marshall Field, where hundreds of thousands of dollars in merchandise sat in storage and in danger of ruin.
Maureen Woodman, a court reporter, was just heading into a civil trial when it was suspended. Robert Zerfass, an accountant, was working on a client's income taxes. Ed Matthei, an architect, was drawing blueprints for a cancer center in Michigan. And the product service managers at Xerox were an hour into a meeting.
"We tried to grab what we could," said Jim Knight, one of the managers. "Now we're looking for someplace else to continue the meeting."
Erik Peterson and Steve Jung were among the last people to leave the offices of Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm. They were trying to finish a graphic for a lawyer who needed it for a trial on Tuesday.
Then they couldn't reach the lawyer. He worked in the Loop, too, and his office and telephone were shut down just like theirs.
So the two set out down Adams Street, the three- by four-foot presentation wrapped in cardboard, in search of the lawyer's firm's suburban office, still trying to meet the deadline.
By early this afternoon, the Loop looked like a ghost town. But on the expressways, a welter of homebound motorists created a midday rush hour.
 
Saturation on Television
 As the day's event's unfolded, the flooding became a city fixation, pre-empting soap operas and game shows on television. All day long, local stations showed maps of the Loop and close-ups of the whirlpool in the river.
Toward the end of the day, downtown workers began turning their attention to Tuesday and whether they should go in to work, but found few answers.
The Mayor's Office of Inquiry and Information had little information. "We don't have any message," said a man working the telephones. "We don't have any news. Call back tomorrow."
Many offices had just enough time to back up their computer files and get their workers out before the elevators shut down, much less to plan for Tuesday. Others left broad messages on answering machines, telling clients the obvious, that the office was closed because of the shutdown of electricity.
In a recorded message, the Board of Trade said there would be no trading on Tuesday and that the building would be closed a second day.
It did not take some business people long to find a way to turn disaster into profit. Jim Felton, who works for a property management company, tacked orange fliers, declaring, "We've got 100,000 square feet available" for people to store their goods in a safe, dry place. His office, of course, is outside the Loop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Water from the Chicago River flooded Chicago's underground tunnel system yesterday, immobilizing businesses in the Loop. Workers pumped water out of the basement of the Chicago Board of Trade. (Barry Jarvinen for The New York Times) (pg. A19)
 
Chart: "The Flood Beneath Chicago"
The Tunnels
 The flooding came from a hole in the bed of the Chicago River, which runs from 15 to 20 feet deep, to a network of underground tunnels that mimic the street grid. The tunnels, which are 40 feet underground, were originally used to transport freight and coal to buildings, but fell into disuse during the 1940's. They have been used since 1960 by Commonwealth Edison for power lines and by Illinois Bell.
 One plan to drain the tunnels would involve creating a new, vertical tunnel that would connect the freight tunnels to the city's relatively new, high-capacity sewage tunnels that lie 250 feet below ground level. These larger tunnels would then carry the flood water out to Lake Michigan.
 
What Happened
 Yesterday morning, flooding was reported in the basements of several buildings in the Loop, downtown Chicago's business district. The water threatened the electrical control systems in the basements of many buildings. It also damaged store merchandise and public records in City Hall.
 Commonwealth Edision shut off power to several buildings at 11:15 P.M. yesterday after the buildings were evacuated.
 City work crews tried to plug the car-sized hole yesterday by using gravel, cement and even matresses.
 
Map of downtown Chicago showing location of flood. (pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (99%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (83%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHICAGO (ILL) UNITED STATES (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (99%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: FLOODS; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) RIVERS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COAL MARKETS (87%); MAYORS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); FUTURES (72%); SHOE STORES (68%); RETAILERS (68%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



449 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
International A3-12
 
AN ULTIMATUM IN RUSSIA
The Russian Cabinet threatened to resign over the issue of economic reforms as a power struggle escalated between President Yeltsin and the Congress of People's Deputies. A1
 
MANDELAS TO SEPARATE
Nelson Mandela, president of the African National Congress, announced that he and Winnie Mandela had agreed to separate after a 33-year marriage that endured through his 27-year imprisonment. A7
 
NO SANCTIONS FOR PERU
Washington continued to berate President Alberto Fujimori of Peru for suspending democracy, but stopped short of calling for economic sanctions. A8
 
WAR CRIMES CASE DISMISSED
France has thrown out a case against Paul Touvier, a French militia chief accused of killing Jews and a human rights leader during the Nazi occupation. A5
 
EMPIRE OF A REBEL LEADER
The Liberian empire of Charles Taylor is thriving while the country's capital, Monrovia, withers. And the threat of violence seems to have moved in to stay. A3
 
VOTES WON, SCAPEGOATS LOST
As President Hashemi Rafsanjani and his supporters emerge victorious from parliamentary elections, he has no outside force to blame for Iran's hardships. A6
 
MALTA PROPOSED FOR SUSPECTS
The Arab League has proposed that the suspects in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, be handed over to Malta and that economic sanctions against Libya be postponed. A6
 
LONDON PICKS UP THE PIECES
London's financial district returned to work, ankle-deep in debris and glass from the terrorist bombing in the heart of the city. A12
 
KINNOCK TO RESIGN PARTY POST
Neil Kinnock, leader of Britain's Labor Party, said that he would resign and let a special party convention elect his successor. A12
A major shift is expected in Britain's economic policies. A12
 
GERMAN IDENTITY CRISIS
Bonn Journal: Building is booming in Bonn, although the seat of Government is to move to Berlin. Bonn's leaders are fighting the move, but with little hope of reprieve. A4
 
National A16-21
 
NUCLEAR PLANT SHUTDOWNS
Nuclear plants that provide 10 percent of the nation's nuclear power may be closed this decade because their operating costs are too high to compete against a rising tide of cheap electricity, experts say. A1
 
SHUTTING DOWN THE CHICAGO LOOP
A breach in a tunnel beneath the Chicago River sent water flooding through an underground network, overrunning downtown basements and utility lines and forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands of workers around the Chicago Loop. A1
 
LIVING (AND HURTING) OFF WELFARE
Since Michigan cut off welfare payments to 83,000 adults last fall, some have found jobs, many have not, and at least one died after skimping on her medicine to save money. A1
 
CLINTON'S DIVERSE CAVALRY
The advisers who would make Governor Clinton President have little in common aside from a love of politics and a commitment to their candidate. The staff's diversity has helped more than hurt. A20
 
BUSH PLAYS TO HIS POSITION
President Bush's appearances with Charlton Heston and law-enforcement officials could be seen as part of a "Rose Garden strategy": boosting Mr. Bush's political fortunes by wrapping him in the trappings of his office. A20
 
REAGAN JOSTLED IN SCUFFLE
Reagan was jostled but unhurt after the Secret Service grabbed a man who interrupted a speech and smashed a statue at the former President's feet. A16
 
GYPSIES SPEAK OUT WITH SUIT
A group of gypsies sued the city of Spokane, Wash., claiming their civil rights were violated in a police raid. The suit breaks a tradition of passivity and could deplete the city's treasury. A16
 
THE ISSUE OF INNOCENCE
A Texas inmate won a stay of execution so his lawyers could argue that his constitutional rights were violated simply because he is innocent, an issue never fully addressed by the Supreme Court. A21
 
HILLS ARE ALIVE, BUT WITH WHAT?
Hueytown Journal: The hills by this Alabama mining town have been throbbing with a loud, erratic hum that has mystified sound experts and exasperated residents. A16
 
The Yale College dean resigned with harsh words for the faculty. A21
Under a Federal mediator, talks began in the Caterpillar strike. A21
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
COPING WITH THREAT OF TB
As tuberculosis makes a comeback, especially among the homeless and those infected with the virus that causes AIDS, states are grappling with ways to deal with problem patients who will not complete their treatment and who pose a danger to others. A1
 
RECONSIDERING FISCAL CUTS
The Dinkins administration has decided it was a mistake to propose deep cuts in the city's construction spending and is trying to devise a way to finance the expenditures. Critics had expressed concern that the cuts would delay vital construction projects. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Science Times C1-10
DNA EVIDENCE IN DOUBT
A long-awaited report by a panel of genetic fingerprinting experts expressed strong doubts about the value of such evidence and said courts should not accept it unless laboratories take new steps to be sure the most stringent scientific standards are observed. A1
A new theory throws earthquake predictions into doubt. C1
Salvaging sex offenders with innovative therapies. C1
A game sheds light on altruism. C1
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Obituaries B8
 
Arts/Entertainment C12-18
Euro Disneyland's hotels. C13
An ex-ballplayer puts sports on screen. C13
Theater: "Two Trains Running," by August Wilson. C13
Word and Image: "The Italics Are Mine." C17
 
Sports B9-15
Baseball: Yankees stay undefeated. B9
Ice-cold Mets lose at ice-cold Shea. B9
Basketball: Carnesecca steps down at St. John's. B9
Nets beat Orlando. B12
Columns: Berkow on Carnesecca B9
Golf: Couples among elite. B15
Hockey: Devils rout Penguins. B11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials A24
The price of peace, evaded.
Sanitizing sex -- and death.
Weak Yonkers housing plan.
Topics: Carriage horses.
 
Letters A24
Russell Baker: Monkey business, anyone? A25
A. M. Rosenthal: Poets of the gulag. A25
Emma Gilbey: Winnie Mandela's rise and fall. A25
Donald Koblitz: "What did you do in the cold war, daddy?" A25

GRAPHIC: Photo: Twice is enough for Neil Kinnock of Britain's Labor Party.(Reuters) A12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); BOMBINGS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HOMICIDE (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



450 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2394 words

HEADLINE: Off the Rolls -- A special report.;
The Sorrows, and Surprises, After a Welfare Plan Ends

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 8

 BODY:
Body odor, ammonia and spaghetti sauce battled for control of the air at the Wheeler Warming Center this week as Anita Robinson straggled in, submitted to a search from a guard in rubber gloves and headed for a mandatory lice-fighting shower.
Ms. Robinson, 37 years old, was cut loose from her moorings last fall when Michigan set what might be the most dramatic national standard in a budget-cutting season: it ended a $240 million welfare program for adults it considered employable.
 
New Ways to Suffer
 Since the checks stopped, Ms. Robinson has been evicted from an apartment, found a boyfriend and fallen out with him, and wound up in a shelter for the homeless. But asked about the program's demise, she offered a surprising verdict: "It's made my life better." 
 Most of the welfare money had gone to crack, she said; now she has been clean for 62 days.
Across Michigan, 83,000 adults -- many vulnerable, most poor, five portrayed below -- are trying to adjust, and it is clear that for some, life is not better.
While a few have found jobs, as Gov. John Engler promised, perhaps most, like Ms. Robinson, have exchanged one form of suffering for another. At least one -- Eva Frederick of Copemish -- died. She suffered a stroke, apparently after trying to stretch out her blood pressure medicine.
While the program cuts have their roots in financial emergency, they are growing into something else: an increasingly strident attack on the very idea of welfare. At least 12 other states and the District of Columbia have reduced similar programs, with Ohio cutting off an estimated 90,000 people this month. President Bush is making an attack on the welfare system a central issue in his re-election campaign.
Those in favor of trimming or eliminating programs argue that such steps will do the poor a favor by providing a new impetus to seek work or education. Others say the cuts will just compound the misery of the powerless.
Welfare programs for childless adults are typically known as "general assistance." Unlike the main cash welfare program -- Aid to Families with Dependent Children -- they are financed entirely with state and local money, and eligibility varies widely. The 225,000 Michigan families with children who receive A.F.D.C. were not affected by the cuts.
The heterogeneous ranks of general assistance rolls include strong young men and ailing, aging women, battered wives, parolees and laid-off workers.
As 83,000 complicated lives unfold in Michigan, there are few statistical gauges of what has happened. And even where the facts are clear, different observers will draw different lessons about whether the cuts helped, or hurt, and about who is to blame.
When the program ended, Marcie Devitt, 61, was evicted from her mobile home. But the Federal Government subsequently offered a free apartment. Was the state cruel to cut her off? Should her 12 children be working harder to support her?
Paul Gibson got a job. Ronald Gray kept drinking. Glenn Williams threw himself into his work as a hard-luck haberdasher, scrounging used clothes and reselling them to his neighbors in a welfare hotel.
Anna Washington found a good job but quit it, and wound up seeking cash at a skid-row blood bank, a move that baffles even her. "I don't know what to say about that," she said last week, her arm bound in a bloody bandage.
Six states have no general assistance programs. Michigan's paid an average of $147 a month.
While such programs are often described as welfare for the able-bodied, many of its recipients fall into a gray zone: not officially disabled, but not really able to support themselves.
The legislature created a small disability program aimed at adults who could neither work, nor qualify for Federal disability payments. But advocates are suing the state, saying it is rejecting those who should qualify.
 
What Kinds of Savings?
 When Pennsylvania reduced its general assistance program in 1982, Anthony Halter, a sociologist at the University of Illinois, tracked 113 people cut from the program; a year later, he found, 3 had jobs.
Among the many unknowns are whether the budget cuts will save the public money. Critics of the Michigan action have estimated that if 10 percent of the former recipients wind up in prison or mental hospitals, the savings will be wiped out. The police say they do not yet know if the cuts are causing crime to rise.
The Salvation Army estimates that the cuts have increased homelessness in Detroit by about 30 percent. Samuel Chambers, the head of Wayne County Department of Social Services, puts the figure at about 50 percent.
What follows are a few portraits of the sorrows and surprises that large government changes bring to people's lives.
 
Ailing Mother of 12
A Free Apartment But No Freedom
 When general assistance ended, Marcie Devitt's cash income fell to zero, and she was evicted from the mobile home in Pontiac where she had lived for five years.
A son then drove her to the rooming house where he was living. The manager there cleared out a storage room and let her stay for free.
"So I end up in a house with alcoholics and drugs addicts, just so I don't have to sleep out in the street," she said in an angry, raspy voice.
Ms. Devitt is theoretically able-bodied, but much about her contradicts the theory. She was found to have cervical cancer in 1977, and though it is in remission she has rarely worked since. In 1990, she came down with ulcerative colitis, a condition that brings violent diarrhea and leaves her bedridden with weakness. After the cuts, she said, "I had to go all over begging toilet paper -- churches, Salvation Army."
 
First Divorced, Then Widowed
 Ms. Devitt, who has 12 children and several grandchildren, said she divorced her first husband because he beat her. Her second husband died. She said she worked as a bartender and a beautician until the onset of cancer, and then lived on A.F.D.C. until her youngest child turned 18, ending her eligibility.
She received general assistance for about six years, until her checks stopped in October.
She has applied for state disability twice and been turned down both times, although two doctors have signed forms calling her "unemployable." She has appealed and is awaiting a hearing.
In February, her son left the rooming house for Ohio, and Ms. Devitt moved in with a daughter and four grandchildren. They are getting by on her daughter's welfare check. Ms. Devitt said her other children cannot afford to help.
Recently, she was approved to live in a free apartment, as part of the Federal housing program, but she complains that it is situated "in the middle of colored people," and that she is afraid to move in.
She said the Governor was right to cut back on welfare programs, but wrong to make her a target. "You've got these young people sitting in houses, popping out babies when they're able to work," she said.
Marguerite Kowaleski, her social worker, winced. "Marcie," she said, "remember there's people saying that about you."
 
Worker
He Needs a Job, So He Has One
 Paul Gibson said the cut did just what it was supposed to: it made him get a job. "When I was on G.A., I didn't really need to work," he said, laughing good-naturedly about an indolent past.
Mr. Gibson, 39, said he came to the welfare program about four years ago, after "a run of bad luck." He was dismissed from his job at a car wash and went to live with a friend, whose apartment then burned down.
A social worker gave him a voucher to stay at the Roosevelt Hotel, a shabby warehouse for parolees, alcoholics and others with limited options. He never left.
At the height of the welfare program, a $240 check paid his rent and left him with $38 to spare. He also got $85 in food stamps. Odd jobs and soup kitchen meals filled in the gaps. "It's easy to get caught up like that, because you don't have to do nothing," he said. "Nothing."
 
Going With the Flow
 While many of the welfare hotels resorted to wholesale evictions, the Roosevelt began lining up jobs for its residents. As he had in the past, Mr. Gibson went with the flow, and before long, a temporary job turned to a full-time one in an auto-parts plant.
"Paul was one of the few fellows in here who was willing to work," said Bob Ruscoe Sr., the day manager.
To get to his job on the midnight shift, Mr. Gibson has to catch a bus at 8:30 P.M., which puts him in a full hour and 15 minutes early, time he kills in a cafeteria. When the shift ends at 8 A.M., Mr. Ruscoe picks him up on his way in to the hotel, charging him a dollar.
At $5.30 an hour, Mr. Gibson brings home about $160 a week.
One thing that hasn't changed is the decor of Mr. Gibson's room, which he describes -- a bit too generously -- as "squalid splendor." The dusty piles of scavenged magazines, dirty clothes and greasy plates give his home the feel of a set from "The Munsters."
"There's nothing immaculate about it," Mr. Gibson concedes, "but I've seen rooms a lot worse.
 
Scavenger
Sustained by Faith And Old Clothes
 Since the car wreck that sent him into an extended coma six years ago, Glenn Williams, 37, has talked like he walks: softly and a bit off-balance.
Last week he was sitting in his room at the Roosevelt Hotel, searching for the words to describe his two main interests: used clothes and Christian faith. The sermon playing loudly on his scavenged radio made it hard to hear.
Asked whether he had feared the program's end, he said it was a sin to be afraid -- "God wasn't afraid, after all that He went through." Mr. Williams said he had simply quickened the entrepreneurial activity that had earned him a reputation as the building's best businessman.
Mr. Williams makes the rounds of churches and social service agencies, collecting free clothes. Shirts go to his neighbors for $2 or $3, pants perhaps for $5.
 
Prayers to 'Miniature Angels'
 The sills and shelves of his fastidious room are lined with prayer books, and Mr. Williams said he prays to what he calls "the miniature angels" for food. He also relies on $111 in food stamps and a hot plate.
Mr. Williams, who used to work as a carpet installer, said he has been unable to hold a job since the wreck. He spent several years living with his parents, but that relationship frayed. He moved to the Roosevelt in 1989, after serving 58 days for a robbery that he said his friends committed.
The car wreck has made him forgetful, he said. The welfare office made him join an adult education class, but he could not keep up. He said he recently lost a job in a potato chip factory because he could not remember what to do. Without welfare, Mr. Williams has fallen about $800 behind on his rent, but the hotel has let him stay on: even partial rent is better than an empty room, the manager said, and Mr. Williams is quiet and decent.
"They treat us with love and respect," Mr. Williams said. "From the blessings of God, everything come out beautiful."
 
Drinker
Wine a Companion In a Blurry Life
 "I ain't gonna tell you no lie," said Ronald Gray on the morning of his 43d birthday, smelling of mouthwash. "I still got an alcohol problem."
In the months since his check was cut, Mr. Gray has been evicted by a landlord and a girlfriend, slept in abandoned buildings, and washed up on the steps of a city warming center.
There he got sent to a training program and placed in a residential shelter where he has his own room and what he calls a more comfortable life than before the cuts. "Hey man, I'm super better off now," he said.
Mr. Gray's autobiography varies with each telling but seems to include a stint in the marines and a job on an automotive line. His wife left him in the mid-1970's, he said. The past decade is a blur of failed alcohol-treatment programs and life on the streets.
 
Loving and Losing
 When general assistance ended in October, Mr. Gray was living in a welfare hotel that sent him packing. His girlfriend, who was pregnant, had been living there, too, but a homeless shelter moved her into a subsidized apartment and got her enrolled on A.F.D.C. She let him move in for a while, he said, then found another man.
Since then, Mr. Gray has been cashing in his $111 allotment of food stamps, which brings $78 illegally on the street, hustling odd jobs, and making twice-a-week visits to blood plasma centers. The money buys cigarettes and soap, he said, and "after that, it's all about buying wine."
For the past few weeks, he has just joined a training program run by Operation Get Down, a private social-service agency, that is supposed to teach him to prepare a resume and conduct himself well in job interviews.
 
Blood Donor
Meeting Ends, Pint by Pint
 "Oooohh, I can't get my arm in there," groaned Anna Washington, grappling with her coat as she left a blood plasma center last week, $10 richer and a pint lighter.
Speaking of life-after-welfare, she offered this assessment: "You've got to sell your stamps just to pay your rent, and you've got to sell your blood just to buy your food."
But her story is more complicated than that. Beside the crisp $10 bill in her wallet is a worn license, certifying her as a practical nurse.
In fact, Ms. Washington said, she found a $10-an-hour job at a nursing home in February but quit within a week because she had difficulty making a 5:30 A.M. bus. "Why would I quit a job that paid $10 an hour to live like this?" she asked, puzzled.
 
Getting Her License
 Ms. Washington, 28, said she was let go from a nursing job about a year ago because she could not find a regular baby sitter. She then sent her two children to live with her mother -- wanting to get them out of a dangerous neighborhood, she said -- and began collecting general assistance while living with her boyfriend.
When the program ended, Michigan's social services department paid $50 to renew her license, which had lapsed, and sent her to a group course on job-seeking techniques. With her boyfriend unemployed, Ms. Washington now picks up $50 a week through a part-time job as a home nurse.
Last week's trip to the blood bank netted her only $8 after bus fare and took about two hours by the time technicians screened her for AIDS. A week ago, she said, a phlebotomist-in-training missed her vein, causing her arm to bruise and bloat.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marcie Devitt's income fell to zero, and she was evicted when general assistance ended. Two doctors have called her unemployable because she has cervical cancer in remission and ulcerative colitis, a condition that brings violent diarrhea and leaves her bedridden with weakness; Since Michigan ended its $240 million welfare program for adults considered employable, the 83,000 former recipients are trying to adjust to a post-welfare state. Paul Gibson, in his room at the Roosevelt, a welfare hotel in Detroit, said the cut did just what it was supposed to: it made him get a job. (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. A18)
 
Graphs: "General Assistance in Michigan" -- The program was shut down six months ago to close the states's budget deficit. The figures below are for participants in 1991. The education figures are from 1986.
 
Average age: 38.9 years
Those 45 years and older: 32.6%
 
Race
 Black: 58.3%
 White: 38.3%
 Other: 3.4%
 
Sex
 Female: 41.5%
 Male: 58.5%
 
Education
 Some college: 10%
 Up to the 12th grade: 41%
 Up to the 11th grade: 35%
 Up to the 8th grade: 10%
 Up to the 5th grade: 4%
 
(Source: Michigan Department of Social Services) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: F-D-C CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); SURVEYS AND SERIES EVICTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (75%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); STROKES (70%); PAROLE (70%); HYPERTENSION (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (50%); MOBILE HOMES (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



451 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Administration Rethinks Cuts in Municipal Construction

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
Under mounting pressure from construction groups, bond dealers and some fiscal monitors, the Dinkins administration has decided that it was a mistake to propose deep cuts in the city's construction spending during a recession and is trying to come up with a way to finance the spending.
Critics have expressed concern that the cuts would hurt the economy and delay vital construction projects, increasing their cost when they are finally undertaken. 
 The decision to back away from the cuts shows how difficult Mayor David N. Dinkins has found it to juggle the various priorities that go into writing the budget. He must listen to bond-rating agencies, which say the city's borrowing is too high; to the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which can offer the city some financial relief but often wants to impose conditions; and to the local economy, which, especially in the construction industry, is heavily dependent on public works projects.
Aides to the Mayor said yesterday that the administration was meeting this week to find new ways to finance the city's massive rebuilding effort without increasing the cost of borrowing money by selling bonds. It is the cost of the interest and principal on those bonds that led the city to make the initial capital-spending cuts.
 
A Search for Solutions
 "There are projects that need to be done and if we can find a way to do them and keep our debt cost down then we plan to move ahead with them," said Philip R. Michael, director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Among the measures under consideration by the administration are changing timetables for building and financing public works, taking advantage of low construction costs, applying for new Federal and state matching funds, and asking the State Legislature for new dedicated taxes to pay for some capital projects. Of these options, new taxes seem least likely.
In addition, the Municipal Assistance Corporation has proposed a joint financing arrangement with the city, in which the state agency would help finance the capital budget by issuing bonds on the city's behalf at a more favorable interest rate than the city could. The interest on bonds would be lower because M.A.C. has a better financial standing than the city.
Trimming the city's capital spending for construction is a critical part of the Mayor's plan for closing a $1.8 billion gap in the $29 billion budget for the 1993 fiscal year that begins July 1.
In January, the Mayor announced plans to cut capital spending by about 30 percent, or $3.7 billion, to $8.5 billion over the next four years. The cut was expected reduce debt payments on long-term bonds that are used to finance the capital budget. Although the reduction was to save only $5 million next year, by 1996 it was to have saved about $250 million in interest and principal repaid each year from city operating revenues.
Mayor Dinkins's press secretary, Leland T. Jones, acknowledged yesterday that the city was working to restore some of the proposed cuts in the capital budget, but he said that it was too early to say what areas would be restored. Most of the $3.7 billion in cuts were to come from school repair and construction, road reconstruction and parks.
 
Economic Stimulation Sought
 "No matter what is restored, there will still be at least a billion-dollar cut in the capital budget and the debt service will be no more than 20 percent," Mr. Jones said.
Mr. Michael, the director of the budget office, said that the administration was rethinking its proposed cuts in the capital budget because of a pressing need to stimulate the local economy and to rebuild the city's crumbling infrastructure. The city has already pledged not to cut work on bridges, sewers and water mains.
Bond-rating agencies have strongly pressured the city to reduce the cost of debt service, which, if the city does not cut its capital program or find another way to finance the program, is expected to account for more than 20 percent of every city tax dollar by 1996.
Critics of trimming the capital budget maintain that it will cost the city tens of thousands of construction jobs and delay repair of the city's deteriorating infrastructure. The cost of making emergency repairs is likely to overshadow any short-term savings gained by cutting the capital plan, the critics maintain.
A new study of the city's capital budget released yesterday found that by delaying capital spending, the city will miss a prime opportunity to take advantage of low construction costs and increased Federal and state matching money available for transportation and clean-air measures.
 
Bargain Rates for Building
 The study, which was conducted by Samuel I. Schwartz, an engineering professor at the Cooper Union Infrastructure Institute, found that construction costs are 20 to 40 percent below the level of five years ago.
"Somehow we've come to applaud every cut in governmental expenditure. But there are some government investments that will solve myriad problems and improve our economic climate," said Mr. Schwartz, who was a deputy transportation commissioner in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Louis Coletti, who heads the New York Building Congress, an industry group that represents construction labor unions and contractors, said that cutting capital spending would be devastating to the construction and design industries, which have seen 50 percent unemployment.
While he said he was pleased that the Mayor was currently pushing several public works projects ahead of schedule, Mr. Coletti said that he was still worried about the long-term impact of capital budget cuts and called on the Mayor to pursue other measures, like Municipal Assistance Corporation financing.
Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, said that while he understood the need for the city to reduce its debt service, "It is important for the city to maintain a high level of capital investment to insure the city's quality of life."
Mr. Rohatyn said that M.A.C. has proposed providing the city with $1.5 billion to $2 billion of financing that would allow the city to restore $600 million in proposed cuts to the capital budget without increasing debt service. Aides to Mr. Dinkins said that they were still considering the M.A.C. proposal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE CORP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS CONSTRUCTION (94%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); MATCHING GIFTS (63%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



452 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Olympia & York called on its bankers to defer interest and principal payments on billions of dollars of debt over three months. It also chose Gerald Greenwald, a former Chrysler executive, as its new president to lead it through a restructuring. [Page D1.] 
 A growth rate of only 1 percent for western Germany this year was forecast by German economic research groups. [D9.]
 
Companies
Chemical cut its prime rate to 6.25 percent, its lowest point since May 1976. No other large banks followed. [D1.]
Ford Motor announced a $3 billion investment in new machinery and plant space. [D1.]
Officers and top executives of General Motors had their pay cut by 36 percent in 1991. [D1.]
Several airlines spent the day altering or fine-turning the fare plan most of them adopted last week. [D5.]
Salomon agreed to sell its 42 percent Grand Union stake, a move that would enable the chain's owners to try to establish a more durable financial structure. [D5.]
Alcoa and Alcan reported results that were below last year's levels but above expectations. Both stocks rallied. [D5.]
A.T.& T. and Lockheed disclosed details of plans for joint development of technology to help break up traffic congestion by using A.T.& T.'s "smart cards." [D5.]
J. P. Morgan and Wachovia both announced strong gains in first-quarter earnings. Both companies benefited from low loan losses and reductions in overhead. [D8.]
General Electric reported a 6 percent rise in earnings, citing healthier performance by NBC and other strong areas. [D8.]
Aetna Life is discussing the sale of its American Re-Insurance unit with Kohlberg, Kravis in a leveraged buyout. [D16.]
Primerica notched record earnings of $220.8 million, more than doubling the $105.9 million it earned a year ago. [D26.]
Caterpillar and the United Automobile Workers remained far apart in talks to settle a five-month old labor dispute. [A21.]
 
The Economy
Nuclear plants that provide 10 percent of the nation's nuclear power may be closed this decade because operating costs are too high to compete against cheap surplus electricity. [A1.]
Wall Street is again seeing its paychecks rise sharply, especially at the most senior level. [D1.]
 
Markets
The Japanese stock market moved higher today in a seesaw session. It had resumed its downward spiral yesterday. [D2.]
U.S. stock prices closed higher, supported by a surprising earnings report from Alcoa but held back by sharp losses in Tokyo. The Dow rose 14.53, to 3,269.90. [D10.]
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher in slow trading, aided by expectations of another Fed rate cut. [D20.]
Top Chicago financial exchanges were closed as water flooded basements, but markets elsewhere faced little disruption. [D21.]
The dollar rose after reports that senior Russian Government officials had offered to resign. Gold prices were lower. [D21.]
 
Today's Columns
As CBS marks a rise from third to first in the ratings, its own advertising, marketing and promotional efforts are being lauded. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
The I.R.S. is scrutinizing nonprofit hospitals, auditing their executive pay arrangements as part of a sweeping look at their tax-exempt status. Milt Freudenheim: Business and Health. [D2.]
Germany's three biggest chemical companies -- Hoechst, BASF and Bayer -- have been out of favor. But that may be changing. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ALCOA INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); MUNICH REINSURANCE AMERICA INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); SMART CARDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); AIRLINES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); GOLD MARKETS (68%); REINSURANCE (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



453 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Protesters Disrupt Brooklyn Board Meeting

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
The first meeting of a reconfigured Community Board 14 in Brooklyn was disrupted last night by a bomb threat and later, by angry shouting matches -- evidence that the racially charged protests that have wracked the board for two years show little sign of ending.
The raucous meeting at Edward R. Murrow High School in Midwood came 12 days after the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, announced new appointments he made to the board that increased the number of black members to 16 from 11. 
 For two years a small group of protesters, led by Ernest N. Foster, a local businessman and political aspirant, and the lawyer Colin Moore, have railed against what they have said is a lack of minority representation on the board.
The protests, which at previous meetings have led to threats and assaults, accusations of racism and racial slurs, underscore the intractablity of the issues of race and representation in the racially mixed district, which includes parts of Flatbush and Midwood.
Under the provisions of the City Charter, half the appointments are made from the nominations of City Council members representing the district -- in this case, Susan D. Alter, Una Clarke, Noach Dear and Anthony D. Weiner.
The new appointments included one Hispanic and seven black members. Two black board members were not reappointed. Before this year's appointments, 11 of the board's 50 members -- 22 percent -- were black, while blacks made up 40 percent of the district, according to the 1990 census. With 16 members now, blacks represent 32 percent of the board.
The bomb threat came only moments after the meeting began, a few minutes before 8 P.M. The board chairman, Alvin M. Berk, abruptly cleared the school auditorium. Inspector John V. Schneider of Patrol Borough Brooklyn South, who was at the meeting, said someone called in the threat to the 911 system. The threat proved unfounded.
 
Addressing Grievances
 The meeting remained tense after the 250 people returned to the auditorium, and the public comment session erupted into a shouting match between the protesters and members of the Jewish Defense Organization. A phalanx of police officers separated the groups, and Mr. Berk had to call the meeting to order several times.
City Councilwoman Alter said that the presence of the two sides had the effect of maintaining a relative though angry stability, but only at the cost of preventing an open discussion of the issues facing the community.
"It's sloganeering on both sides," she said after the meeting. "There's nothing substantial. There's no way to go forward from here."
But Olie MacLean, a former board member who is black and who was not reappointed after serving six years, said the borough's leadership had simply tried to maintain the political status quo, "which is addicted to white supremacy."
The protests at the board meetings began early in 1990 as Community Board 14 became embroiled in the boycott of a Korean grocery store on Church Avenue. The protesters -- supported by the Mr. Moore and the political organizer Sonny Carson -- have contended that the racial composition of the board has not changed as quickly as the neighborhoods it represents.
 
Demonstrations at Groceries
 A group protesting the hiring practices at two Korean grocery stores in Brooklyn set up pickets outside those markets yesterday morning, but left peacefully after the stores agreed to hire more black employees.
About a dozen protesters from the African-American Protection Agency, a community organization that says it seeks to help the unemployed, picketed Best Fruit Palace, at 1445 Fulton Street, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, and the nearby KC Fruit Market, at 1490 Fulton Street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers holding back protesters last night at a meeting of Community Board 14 at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn. The meeting had been interrupted earlier in the evening by a bomb threat. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY BOARD (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY BOARD (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BROOKLYN (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RIOTS (73%); CITIES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); CENSUS (52%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GOLDEN, HOWARD (BORO PRES); MACLEAN, OLIE ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



454 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Shunning Sanctions Against Peru

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
The Bush Administration continued today to sharply criticize President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru for suspending democracy to bring order to his Andean nation. But Washington stopped short of calling for economic sanctions to force him to change course.
While Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d told a special session of the Organization of American States that "you cannot destroy democracy in order to save it," he joined with other O.A.S. foreign ministers in backing a relatively restrained resolution on Peru. The United States has consistently criticized Mr. Fujimori's actions since they were taken on April 5. 
 The Administration's policy, which seems to be shared by many O.A.S. members, appears to be this:
Washington has a great deal of sympathy for the threats Mr. Fujimori faces from drug traffickers and Maoist guerrillas, but in its view, as expressed by Mr. Baker, he has made a "tragic mistake" because his actions will deprive Peru of what it most needs to defeat those threats and the poverty that hobbles his country -- strong and sustained international support and aid and the internal legitimacy that comes from a being a democratic government.
Moreover, Bolivia, Ecuador, Chile and Brazil all share borders with Peru and have told Washington they are wary of taking any action that could lead to the collapse of the central Government in Lima and the rise of drug traffickers and terrorists.
 
A Balance Is Sought
 To balance these competing impulses, the United States and other O.A.S. members seem to have settled for harshly condemning in public what Mr. Fujimori has done while refraining from imposing equally harsh sanctions that would cripple his Government. The aim apparently is to buy him a little time to take the most urgent measures to get his country back under control, with the hope that public pressure will insure that whatever he does he does quickly and then restores democracy.
The O.A.S. resolution passed tonight with 31 of the 34 member nations voting in favor. Two were absent and Peru abstained. It "greatly deplored" Mr. Fujimori's dissolution of Peru's Congress and other democratic institutions and called for their immediate restoration. It also called for the freeing of political prisoners and the dispatch of an O.A.S. mission to Lima headed by Secretary General Joao Baena Soares to help Mr. Fujimori find a way out of the crisis and to explain the consequences if he does not.
The tension in the Bush Administration policy between needing to uphold democratic values but not wanting to do it in a way that would play into the hands of antidemocratic forces or further undermine Mr. Fujimori was reflected throughout Mr. Baker's speech to the foreign ministers of the O.A.S. meeting at its Washington headquarters.
"Today we meet because of the recent tragic events in a great and proud member of this organization, Peru," Mr. Baker said. "I use the word 'tragic' because no nation and no people face a more daunting, dangerous, or terrible set of crises than those inherited by the new democratic Government of Peru less than two years ago.
"No nation and no people need and deserve international solidarity and support more than the Peruvian nation and the Peruvian people," he said. "They confront the deepest economic crisis of their history, the violence and corruption of narcotrafficking, and the most murderous and dangerous terrorist movement that has ever appeared in Latin America."
Mr. Baker added that to the "immense credit" of Peru its Government had carried out a difficult "but courageous" process of economic reform, which had begun to reopen long-closed avenues to new lending from the international financial community.
But Mr. Baker said: "The actions taken by President Fujimori, whatever the justification given, are unjustified. They represent an assault on democracy that cannot and will not be supported by the United States of America. And therefore we have suspended all new assistance to the Government of Peru, and we will continue to do so until constitutional democracy is restored."
"All of us recognize that democracy can be inefficient," Mr. Baker said "All of us recognize that democracy can be slow, and all of us recognize that democracy can be frustrating. But there is no alternative. You cannot destroy democracy in order to save it.
"The only long-term beneficiaries of this assault on democracy in Peru will be those very terrorists and guerrillas who falsely argue that violence is the solution to the problems of the Peruvian people."
Referring to an announcement by Mr. Fujimori on Sunday night that he would hold a plebiscite within six months to begin restoring democracy, Mr. Baker said, "Let me say to our distinguished colleague, the Foreign Minister of Peru, we welcome the initial steps that you have mentioned in your presentation today which have been taken toward the restoration of democracy."
The O.A.S. initially adopted a restrained resolution toward Haiti after military rebels there ousted President Jean Bertrand Aristides last fall, but it quickly followed that up with a resolution imposing economic sanctions. On Friday, Mr. Bush said he would be ready to consider such sanctions against Peru. But O.A.S. officials said there was no consensus in the group for taking such tough actions against a democratically elected President who was suspending his own democracy to deal with corruption and challenges from both drug traffickers and guerrillas.
The O.A.S. members refused a request from an anti-Fujimori delegation to be allowed to occupy Peru's seat at the meeting.
The Peruvian Foreign Minister, Augusto Blacker Miller, made a passionate appeal to give Mr. Fujimori a chance, saying that the Peruvian Congress had systematically deprived his Government of all the tools necessary to deal with the poverty, corruption and political violence in his country.
Mr. Miller insisted that President Fujimori had pledged to allow Peruvians to express their opinions about his policies through plebiscites, adding, "Peru has suspended certain articles of the Constitution but has not suspended the democratic process."
Mr. Baker's public advice to Mr. Fujimori was to release those in detention, fully restore freedom of the press and all other constitutional liberties, initiate national discussions involving all Peruvian democratic groups and re-establish constitutional democracy immediately.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Car Bomb Kills Four
LIMA, Peru, April 13 (Special to The New York Times) -- Urban guerrillas set off a large car bomb near a police station in the Lima suburb of Callao early today, killing four and wounding at least 20.
The 2 A.M. explosion, which heavily damaged an apartment building, was at least the 10th guerrilla attack since President K. Fujimori seized expanded powers eight days ago with the promise to eradicate the rebel movement by the time his term ends in 1995.
The Peruvian Congress, which was dissolved by the President, met today for the second time in a week. More than 100 members of the House of Deputies and 38 members of the Senate met for more than an hour and railed against Mr. Fujimori, calling him a dictator. Some said that there should be no negotiations over the current crisis with the President.
On April 5, Mr. Fujimori announced that he had dissolved Congress and the judiciary branch, suspended the Constitution and placed many lawmakers and journalists under arrest.
All the lawmakers and journalists have been released. But one official of the opposition Apra party, Agustin Mantilla, remains in jail, charged with having a large cache of weapons in his home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PERU (98%); BOLIVIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ECUADOR (79%); 

CITY: LIMA, PERU (55%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (92%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (92%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (99%); PERU (98%); BOLIVIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ECUADOR (79%); LIMA, PERU (55%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



455 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

GAUGING THE THREAT OF TB PATIENTS
As tuberculosis has made a comeback, especially among homeless people and those infected with the virus that causes AIDS, states are grappling with ways to deal with problem patients like Milton A. Ellison. Mr. Ellison, a 34-year-old homeless man from New York City, has repeatedly failed to take the medicine that he needs. So last month, health officials took him to a hospital where he was guarded by sheriff's deputies and shackled by wrist and ankle to his bed. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
SECOND THOUGHTS ON BUDGET CUTS
Under mounting pressure from construction groups, bond dealers and some fiscal monitors, the Dinkins administration has decided that it was a mistake to propose deep cuts in the city's capital budget during a recession and is trying to come up with a way to finance the spending. A1.
 
A TEST FOR DRUG-MURDER LAW 
 Despite the absence of a death-penalty law in New York State, a reputed Mafia member could face execution if convicted in a Federal narcotics and murder trial that is beginning in Brooklyn. The defendant, Thomas Pitera, who is depicted by authorities as the head of a deadly group in the Bonanno crime family, is the first person in New York to be prosecuted under a Federal law that provides the death penalty for intentional murders in drug cases. B3.
 
DINKINS GAVE $15,000 TO CHARITY
Mayor Dinkins earned $128,871 last year, just 60 percent of his 1990 income, but he made $15,000 in charitable contributions, nearly 32 times the amount he gave the year before, according to income-tax returns released at City Hall. B3.
 
Brooklyn community board meeting disrupted by bomb threat and shouting matches. B3.
 
New York to hold Gay Games in 1994. B3.
 
REGION
 
NEW PROPOSAL ON TOLLS
 
The Republican majority in the Legislature unveiled a proposal to eliminate tolls on both the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, upstaging Governor Florio, who has suggested removing tolls only from the Garden State. B6.
 
CONSTRUCTION BILL IS APPROVED
Over the strong objections of environmentalists, the New Jersey Assembly gave overwhelming final approval to a bill that would automatically extend local building permits through 1994. Governor Florio has not indicated whether he will sign the legislation, saying he must weigh the needs of the economy and the environment. B6.
 
RETURN OF THE BIG RIGS?
The collapse of the Mianus River Bridge in 1983 created a traffic nightmare for Greenwich, Conn., and nearby Port Chester, N.Y., as traffic was detoured from Interstate 95 to local streets. Now, residents fear a reprise. Sometime in the next two months, a weighing station for trucks will open on the interstate, and many believe that a parade of big rigs will pour onto local streets to circumvent the station. B6.
 
9 states sue E.P.A. over lack of rules on pollution. B2.
 
Judge admits glove as evidence in Warmus case. B4.
 
Our Towns B4

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Federal Spending" shows federal spending per capita, by category (grants to states and localities, employee pay, payments to individuals, purchase of goods and services, and other) for the 1991 fiscal year in Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, and the U.S. (Source: Sensus Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ASSEMBLY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY ASSEMBLY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US) TUBERCULOSIS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); MURDER (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (83%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (75%); MAYORS (75%); BONDS (75%); CAPITAL CRIMES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SHERIFFS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BOMBINGS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TRUCKING WEIGH STATIONS (66%); CHARITABLE GIVING (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: MILTON A ELLISON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



456 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: East European Bank Is Split on Its Future

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, April 13

 BODY:
The London-based bank established to foster private investment in Eastern Europe agreed today to study an expansion of its role there, but put off any decision on broadening its financing abilities, after sharp United States objections.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was set up a year ago to provide market-rate loans and equity investments aimed at spurring the growth of private enterprise in Eastern Europe. 
 But Jacques Attali, the bank's French president, wants to expand the institution's role by offering credit on concessionary terms for the restructuring of the poorest economies of the former Soviet bloc and the conversion of military factories to civilian ends.
Nicholas F. Brady, the United States Treasury Secretary, objected, saying an expansion of the bank's role could lead it to clash with the World Bank and other United States-based international financial organizations.
The compromise reached today, after a meeting on Sunday between Mr. Attali and Mr. Brady, was that the proposal should be studied. No time limit was set for this examination.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); 

PERSON: NICHOLAS F BRADY (79%); JACQUES ATTALI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



457 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Chief Says Focus Will Shift to Economics

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, said today that the Bush Administration had directed that nearly 40 percent of the new tasks of the country's intelligence agencies would involve international economics.
Mr. Gates said a national security review "highlighted the dramatic increased importance of international economic affairs as an intelligence issue." The extensive review, conducted by 14 task forces, envisioned a reshaping of the nation's intelligence priorities through the year 2005. 
 President Bush has approved the recommendations, Mark Mansfield, a spokesman for the C.I.A., said.
In a speech to the Economic Club of Detroit, Mr. Gates said: "Nearly 40 percent of the new requirements are economic in nature. The most senior policy makers of the Government clearly see that many of the most important challenges and opportunities through and beyond the end of this decade are in the international economic arena, and they have fleshed out that insight with a detailed set of requirements for the intelligence community."
The intelligence agencies will also step up efforts to monitor trends in technology that could affect national security and economic competitiveness, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); APPROVALS (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GATES, ROBERT M ROBERT M GATES (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



458 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: In Liberia's Illusory Peace, Rebel Leader Rules Empire of His Own Design

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GBARNGA, Liberia

 BODY:
Only the legions of edgy and heavily armed guards at checkpoints leading to this sleepy village give any hint of the grand ambitions envisioned here. For if the guerrilla leader Charles Taylor has his way, this remote outpost will become the strategic center of a vast military and administrative empire.
Already nearly 95 percent of Liberia, the West African nation founded by freed American slaves, is in effect run from Gbarnga by Mr. Taylor's forces. The area has its own currency and banking system, an international airfield, a thriving export trade in diamonds, gold, rubber and timber -- even its own radio and television network. 
 By contrast, Monrovia, Liberia's capital and its once-bustling political and economic center, about 120 miles to the south, is on the verge of ruin.
The capital is administered by an interim government that was installed by West African nations in the autumn of 1990 as part of a regional peace plan.
But these days, Monrovia is on its knees. Were it not for the efforts of the United Nations, Catholic Relief Services and other foreign aid agencies, there would be no electricity, running water or food for most of the 500,000 people.
 
Shadows of Violence
 The situation in Liberia, a nation of about two and a half million, might be regarded as a peculiarity, attracting little international attention, were it not for the threat of still another armed conflict on a continent racked by insurgencies and instability.
Many African and Western analysts believe that Mr. Taylor, who is 44 years old, has been associated with terrorist attacks and anti-government insurgencies in the neighboring nations of Sierra Leone, Guinea and Gambia.
And in the flurry of military activity, recent reports say hundreds of civilians may have been killed in the cross-fire and thousands displaced. There is little sign of peace soon.
"Effectively, Charles Taylor's control over most of Liberia creates a new nation in the region," said Makau wa Mutua, director of the human rights program at Harvard Law School.
"This situation is most tragic," he said, "because the West, which is consumed by changes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, has abandoned this small nation as its social and political fabric slowly dies."
 
Accomplishments, as Well
 Perhaps foremost among Mr. Taylor's accomplishments is that he has been able to do so much in two and a half years. The rebel leader, who insists that he be addressed as President Taylor, has never run for office. If elections are again organized, he says, he would be willing to take part, but only as the incumbent president.
Mr. Taylor has built his domain despite the apparent opposition of much of the population. And leaders of the 16-nation Economic Community of West African States, a trading consortium with a military contingent, have repeatedly called on Mr. Taylor to disarm his troops and allow their 7,000-member peace force to enter his territory, a request he has largely ignored.
More recently, the United Nations suspended a $130 million food-distribution program in territory controlled by Mr. Taylor, charging continued harassment of aid workers at checkpoints and the confiscation of relief vehicles.
In December, a United Nations relief aide from Europe was pistol-whipped by Taylor soldiers, and a number of workers have been arrested and detained on allegations of spying.
Aid officials say they have been particularly angered by Mr. Taylor's insistence that food and other supplies be shipped only through the port of Buchanan, which is controlled by his forces, rather than through the much larger port at Monrovia.
"Taylor rules by terror and intimidation," a relief worker said, "and most of us feel it's not worth risking our lives in that kind of situation. One reason Taylor is getting away with it, is most people are afraid to travel up there anymore. It's just too volatile."
 
Flight to and From U.S.
 As a student at Bentley College, near Boston, Mr. Taylor helped organize Liberians in the United States to oppose President William R. Tolbert Jr., whose Government, like its predecessors, was dominated by a minority group of descendants of freed American slaves who migrated to Liberia in the early part of the 19th century.
When Master Sgt. Samuel K. Doe overthrew President Tolbert in 1980, Mr. Taylor returned to Liberia to join the new leadership.
But in 1983, after falling out with Sergeant Doe, by then Liberia's head of state, he fled to the United States. The Liberians sought his extradition on charges that he had diverted $900,000 in Government funds, and a court in Boston found sufficient grounds to detain him. In 1985, while awaiting extradition, Mr. Taylor broke out of jail.
Over the next five years, his whereabouts were largely unknown. According to Liberian and American authorities, he spent much of this period in Libya as the guest of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
In December 1989, Mr. Taylor and about 100 guerrillas invaded northern Liberia from the Ivory Coast. The insurgency gained momentum, even while splitting bitterly into rival factions.
Eventually, a former Taylor follower, Prince Johnson, captured, tortured and killed President Doe.
A five-nation West African force intervened, saying the war was no longer an internal conflict because thousands of their citizens were trapped in Liberia and an estimated half-million Liberians had fled to neighboring countries. Altogether, nearly half of Liberia's people were uprooted, and an estimated 20,000 died.
In October 1990, the West African group formed an interim government headed by Amos Sawyer, a former university professor.
But Mr. Taylor refused to recognize Mr. Sawyer's government, defiantly moving his military and administrative operations here, designating Gbarnga as Liberia's capital and effectively partitioning the country.
Superficially at least, Gbarnga seems far removed from the social and economic chaos that engulfs Monrovia.
The Taylor government, which now calls itself the National Patriotic Reconstruction Assembly, has spent lavishly to create a version of a well-planned bureaucracy. On nearly every corner, signs direct visitors to ministry offices. But often, these are little more than one-room shacks staffed by untrained and illiterate people.
 
The Warrior<He>
The sense of unreality is heightened by hundreds of posters and paintings of Charles Taylor: Sometimes he is dressed in traditional West African garb, wearing a white cap and a flowing gown; in other pictures, he is in a jacket and tie, staring defiantly or posing with foreign dignitaries.
Recently, Mr. Taylor's face has begun to appear with the word "ghankay" written in bold letters underneath. Ghankay means warrior in Gola, one of Liberia's main languages.
Mr. Taylor has denounced Liberia's new "Liberty" $5 bill, first minted in January by the central bank in Monrovia, and prohibits its use in the area he controls; only the old bill is legal tender. He levies a fine equivalent to $3,000 on anyone caught carrying Liberty notes in his territory.
The American dollar is still accepted on both sides, but the exchange rate varies. While the official rate remains one Liberian dollar for one American dollar, in Monrovia the black market pays five to eight Liberian dollars for an American one, and in the Taylor area, the black market gives three to five dollars for an American one.
If many Liberians find doing business in Mr. Taylor's territory hard, the experience of foreigners has been quite different. Liberian-American Mining Company, one of the region's biggest iron-ore producers, has resumed exports to Europe.
 
Riches and Troops
 Analysts in this country say that Mr. Taylor has granted lucrative concessions to a number of foreign diamond and gold exporters, particularly from Germany and France. Now, the taxes and export duties from timber, rubber and mining operations -- which once flowed to the central government -- are controlled by him.
No one knows for sure how many troops Mr. Taylor has, but most analysts say perhaps 10,000. They are a menacing force. Dozens of soldiers, sometimes boys as young as 9 or 10, carry machine guns at the checkpoints.
Mr. Taylor is fighting a threat from a rebel movement including former members of President Doe's army and the Mandingo ethnic group, which in recent weeks have engaged his forces along the Sierra Leone border.
In December, a study of his territory by the Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights, an advocacy group based in New York, found "reports of widespread physical attacks against civilians, including the rape of young women," at the checkpoints.
A similar report in October 1991 by Africa Watch said "dissent is not tolerated" in these areas, "creating fear and uncertainty among the civilian population."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guerrilla forces led by Charles Taylor, above, control nearly 95 percent of Liberia from their base in Gbarnga. Fears are increasing that attacks will spill over into neighboring countries in West Africa. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Liberia showing location of Gbarnga.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC8322 INDIVIDUAL & FAMILY SOCIAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GAMBIA (79%); GUINEA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: MONROVIA, LIBERIA (92%); 

COMPANY: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (55%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); CATHOLIC RELIEF SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBERIA; GBARNGA (LIBERIA) LIBERIA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GAMBIA (79%); GUINEA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); MONROVIA, LIBERIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); SLAVERY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); DIAMOND MARKETS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); AIRPORTS (55%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; TAYLOR, CHARLES (LIBERIA) CHARLES TAYLOR (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



459 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Political Week;
Bush and Clinton Share Win-at-All-Cost Image

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
With white eyes, black teeth and a porcupine shaft of hair, Bill Clinton stares ferally from the cover of this week's Time magazine.
The photo negative of Mr. Clinton, making him look like an alien from a 1950's sci-fi horror movie, and the cover line, "Why Voters Don't Trust Clinton," are the latest jolts to a campaign that is struggling grimly -- and hoarsely -- onward. 
 Mr. Clinton, a man who likes to talk, is still not able to talk, and his doctor forced him to cancel a major speech on economics scheduled for Tuesday at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
Into the vacuum rushes a torrent of advice about what the likely Democratic Presidential nominee must do next. Some say he should deliver a modern "Checkers" speech, putting the character questions on the table. But for the moment, the Clinton camp is leaning against such an idea, saying that it would do more harm than good. Mea culpas on specifics are one thing, Clinton advisers say, but a blank-check apologia on the general topic of trust might be too much even for a deft politician like Mr. Clinton to pull off.
So, instead, he will try to act Presidential and talk about real change while George Bush tries to act Presidential and talk about real change.
In urging his re-election last week, President Bush redefined political chutzpah when he noted, "I think the people want change."
Although everyone is chattering about change, it is the similarities between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush that are in sharp relief at the moment.
If Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York had run against Mr. Bush, the race would have been a study in contrasts. The lower-class kid from Queens against the preppy from Kennebunkport, Me.
The brooding, intellectual Governor who likes to read and think and sleep in his own bed versus the buoyant, frenetic President who hates introspection and sleeping in his own bed if there's anywhere fun to travel. The liberal who is not afraid to defend welfare versus the conservative-manque who wants to cut welfare payments.
Similarly, Edmund G. Brown Jr. or Paul E. Tsongas would have offered something very different to voters disillusioned with Mr. Bush. But the Arkansas Governor and the President sometimes seem sketched with lines that offer the same basic curves.
They are both seen as men who want to win people over, at any cost. They are both seen as men who hate conflict, avoid confrontation and govern by compromise. They are both men of great charm who build networks of useful friends and make politics intensely personal. They are both men of enormous ambition, softened by amiable, caring facades, who sometimes give the impression of being manufactured because they have shifted stances out of expediency.
They are both willing to stoop to conquer. Before Jewish groups in New York, Mr. Clinton never seemed to mention his belief that West Bank settlements were an obstacle to peace, while his support for Israel shined especially brightly. Mr. Bush, who gave a sop to the right today by trying to curb unions' spending on political activities, is off to Michigan on Tuesday to court the Reagan Democrats of Macomb County and make car makers happy by announcing a veto of new pollution standards.
They are both married to strong, savvy women and yet they both enjoy the "good old boy" comfort level provided by campaign inner circles made up largely of white men. Sometimes the eagerness to make the right contacts leads them to give signals that many consider offensive: Mr. Clinton gave no more thought to playing golf for years at an all-white Arkansas club than Mr. Bush does to belonging to three all-male clubs.
Most damning, they are both seen as men who will do anything to be in the Oval Office, and one of the major themes that will begin playing out this week is their struggle to see who can make himself seem most genuine.
Even the generational energy that ought to work in Mr. Clinton's favor against the last President of the World War II generation is being dissipated by his ambiguous handling of the draft and marijuana.
Just as they talk about the many faces of George Bush -- the President looked like an alien on the cover of Time magazine last year in a picture that gave him two faces on one neck -- now they talk about the many faces of Bill Clinton.
Just as they once asked, "Who is the real George Bush?" now they ask, "Who is the real Bill Clinton?"
In the summer of 1988, when he was asked how he would turn around his bad image -- he was running 17 points behind Michael S. Dukakis at that point -- a grumpy but steely George Bush replied that he would win the election because he had friends.
Now Bill Clinton is hoping for the same salvation. Ever since New Hampshire, the Clinton campaign has been peppering the landscape with Clinton friends, some on the scene, available to spin reporters at campaign stops, and some defending the candidate in print and by telephone.
The campaign even took a full-page advertisement in The Manchester Union Leader during the first primary, listing more than a hundred names of Clinton allies, many of them state employees, who were available to take calls from voters with doubts and tell them what a great guy Bill is.
With the odds uncertain on his chances of beating George Bush, Mr. Clinton is once again desperately hoping that the people who trust him can help convert the people who don't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); HORROR FILMS (57%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



460 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Candidate's Health;
Laryngitis Silences Clinton Another Day

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13

 BODY:
A common occupational hazard for politicians, chronic laryngitis from speaking too much, forced Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas to cancel a major economic address he had planned to give Tuesday in Pennsylvania, his staff said tonight.
Last week Mr. Clinton's personal doctor, Dr. James Suen, prescribed several days of silence for the Democratic Presidential candidate because he had overused his voice. After examining Mr. Clinton today, he recommended another day of rest. 
 "There was improvement from last week, but he still has some swelling of his vocal cords," Dr. Suen said.
George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's deputy campaign manager, said: "The doctor simply said if you go to work tomorrow, you undermine four days of rest. If you take one more day off, it's all the difference."
The raspy voices that are so common among politicians come from swelling and bleeding that damage the vocal cords. If the irritation persists for long periods, nodules, which are small growths on the vocal cords, can develop.
Laryngitis is generally not serious. But the swelling can sometimes interfere with breathing, and occasionally with eating.
Although the main culprit is simple overuse of the voice box, or larynx, and the muscles that control it, several other factors can aggravate chronic laryngitis.
One is dehydration. Another is anxiety, which can make the vocal cords tense. A third is continued irritation from things like cigarettes and pipes in smoky rooms. Colds and respiratory infections are also factors.
But one of the worst offenders is what specialists call the Lombard effect.
"The noisier the background environment, the more we tend to raise our voices to hear ourselves talk, and we don't even realize it," said Dr. David R. Edelstein, an ear, nose and throat specialist in New York.
The standard treatment for chronic laryngitis is resting the voice, drinking lots of fluid and using humidifiers. Sometimes doctors prescribe steroids for an acute episode, but they are not inclined to do that on a long-term basis because stomach ulcers, bone thinning and other complications can result.
The usual prescription is absolute voice rest for one to two weeks, with relative voice rest for an additional period, said Dr. Edelstein, who is an attending physician at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital in New York but is not associated with Mr. Clinton's case.
Dr. Suen said he advised Mr. Clinton "to avoid overuse of his voice during the campaign."
But while such prescriptions are easy to write, politicians often find them hard to fill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; HEALTH, PERSONAL; LARYNGITIS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STEROIDS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); OTOLARYNGOLOGY (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COMMON COLD (69%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); SUEN, JAMES (DR) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



461 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Trade Surplus Rises

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 13

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus rose by 29 percent to a record level in March, its 15th consecutive month of increase from levels a year earlier, the Finance Ministry reported today.
But for the first time in eight months, Japan's surplus with the United States declined from a year earlier, as Japan bought $337.45 million worth of American aircraft. 
 For the 1991 fiscal year, which ended on March 31, Japan's global surplus rose by 63 percent, to $88.35 billion, the second-largest surplus for any fiscal year, the ministry said.
Japan's surplus with the United States climbed 1.0 percent, to $38.46 billion, for the fiscal year. But for March alone, Japan posted a surplus of $3.16 billion with the United States, down 17 percent from the previous March.
Japan has worried that the surplus, already a point of friction with the United States, may become a more sensitive subject as campaigners in the American Presidential election emphasize economic issues.
There have also been suggestions that Japanese companies may aggressively promote exports to overcome effects of this country's economic slowdown.
Finance Ministry aides told a press briefing that they did not expect any rapid increase in Japan's surplus in the coming months. They said that many Japanese companies had moved production abroad and that the Government had announced measures to stimulate demand at home with an eye to promoting imports.
In March, Japan's global surplus totaled $10.99 billion, surpassing the previous monthly record of $10.43 billion set in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (72%); AIRLINES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



462 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Hueytown Journal;
Humming Along, and Howling Mad

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HUEYTOWN, Ala., April 7

 BODY:
For the last four months a loud hum that comes and goes erratically has bedeviled parts of this central Alabama city, keeping people awake and setting teeth on edge and dogs to howling.
It's called the Hueytown Hum, a low-pitched, steady sound emanating from the rolling hills surrounding this coal mining town of 15,000 people about 15 miles southwest of Birmingham. The hum, has turned bucolic subdivisions with names like Edenwood and Lakeview into zones of stress for up to three days at a time before fading away, only to return an hour or a week later. 
 "I catch myself trying to breath in time with its rise and fall in pitch," said an exasperated Jane Harless. And the sound has disoriented beast and man alike. "My dog Princess won't eat when it's going," she said.
Savina Bradberry, a high school math teacher, said it sounds like "the hum of a fluorescent light tube about to go."
The hum has led to jokes and numerous theories about its source.
In a broadcast from the steps of City Hall on April 1, a local radio station solicited tongue-in-cheek theories. Hueytown was humming because it didn't know the words, one listener suggested. Another said it was killer bees.
More serious theories involve electro-magnetic forces and high-voltage power lines.
The mystery is made more elusive by the fact that one area, with about 500 homes, seems to be most affected.
Such focused sound phenomena are not unheard of, said Clifford Bragdon, a professor of city planning at Georgia Institute of Technology and an expert on sound propagation.
Some years ago, Mr. Bragdon said, two communities 10 to 17 miles from the Aberdeen Proving Ground, an Army ordnance test center in Maryland, complained of noise from the tests, while communities adjacent to the base were barely disturbed.
What researchers eventually found, he said, was "an atmospheric anomaly" involving the interaction of temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, wind and topography that was "propagating, channeling and focusing" the sound to a point miles from the source.
"People try to get at these things by using the classical visual approach," the professor said. "But you need an acoustical Sherlock Holmes to solve things like this."
Using more circumstantial evidence, some residents have focused on the huge ventilation fans that have been installed in nearby coal mines. Federal safety regulations require that the fans be operated around the clock to pull methane gas and coal dust from the mines.
The USX Corporation's Oak Grove mines, 10 miles west of here, have five such fans, but a USX spokesman, Steve Sobat, said company engineers determined that its fans were not causing the hum. He conceded, however, that the clearing last year of timber from a USX-owned pine forest that had served as a buffer between Hueytown and the mines could have contributed to the problem.
Just south of USX's mines, Jim Walter Resources Inc. operates a mine that has three fans, one of which is a 3,500-horsepower monster with 12-foot blades. The $7 million fan went into operation last December, at about the time Hueytown residents recall first hearing the hum.
Dennis K. Hall, director of public relations for Jim Walter Resources, said the company was cooperating with Hueytown officials to resolve the mystery. But he added that any additional company expenditure in the effort, including hiring outside experts, would require the approval of a bankruptcy court that is supervising the mining operation while Jim Walter Resources reorganizes under Chapter 11.
Jim Walter is a major economic force in the area. Its mines extract 2.7 million tons of coal a year and a billion cubic feet of methane a month from the hills around Hueytown. The company employs 657 people here and pumps $41 million a year in wages and benefits into the local economy.
"We don't want to point any fingers," said Mayor Lillian Howard. "This area was built on money from the mines, and we have been around these fans all of our lives. We'll work this out together with the companies so it won't be a choice between the hum or jobs."

GRAPHIC: Map of Alabama showing location of Hueytown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (81%); X (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (81%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUEYTOWN (ALA) UNITED STATES (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NOISE COAL MINING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); CITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS (76%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); METHANE (71%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); MILITARY BASES (67%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; BRAGDON, CLIFFORD

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



463 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plans $3 Billion Outlay To Raise Production Levels

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 13

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company announced a $3 billion investment in new machinery and plant space today, some of which will be used to build a new mini-van in late 1993. When auto sales were brisk in the 1980's, Ford was tightly constrained by too little production capacity, and today's announcement is a step to correct that problem.
The No. 2 auto maker's actions will affect a number of plants in the United States and Canada and should result in 1,300 new jobs at Ford's truck plant in Louisville, Ky., a spokesman said. Before the recession, Ford's hourly employees typically worked a great deal of overtime to meet demand for vehicles. 
 Ford's investment is a bullish one that anticipates a rebound in vehicle sales over the next few years, particularly in the fast-selling light-truck segment, which includes mini-vans, utility vehicles and pickup trucks.
The new van, to be built at an existing Ford plant in Oakville, Ontario, will be Ford's third mini-van model, positioning the auto maker to be far more competitive with the Chrysler Corporation, which created the mini-van and still dominates that market. Ford now sells the rear-wheel-drive Aerostar model, and later this year it will introduce the Mercury Villager, which it developed with the Nissan Motor Company.
Ford said it might be able to build up to 300,000 new mini-vans, which could make a substantial impact in an American market that now numbers about a million sales a year. Chrysler sells about half of all mini-vans; the General Motors Corporation sells about one-fifth, and Ford and import models account for the rest.
Alex Trotman, executive vice president of North American operations, said he was announcing the programs well in advance of production in late 1993 because of the long lead times necessary to finish development work and the need to discuss the programs with two unions, the United Automobile Workers and the Canadian Automobile Workers.
The Oakville plant, which currently builds the Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz cars, will shut down for retooling in October. Ford will spend $900 million on renovation there, in addition to $400 million already spent on a new paint shop.
But Ford must also drop one work shift at an adjacent truck plant in Oakville. Seven hundred workers will be transferred from the truck plant to the new mini-van plant, and another 400 workers will eventually be hired as well, the company said.
Ford will also spend $650 million to expand and renovate its Louisville plant. It will consolidate there the production of larger F-Series pickups -- those with a loaded capacity of more than 8,500 pounds. Ford now builds heavier-duty F-Series pickups at other plants. The Louisville plant will continue to build medium- and heavy-duty trucks.
 
Changes at Engine Plant
 Finally, Ford said it would spend close to $1 billion to renovate and retool its Windsor, Ontario, engine plant for a new family of truck engines, beginning in 1995. The plant now builds 5.8-liter and 7.5-liter V-8 engines.
Ford needs new engines, in part to meet stricter fuel-efficiency, clean air and other regulatory requirements. About 700 Ford workers are currently laid off in Windsor.
Mr. Trotman said approval of the investments was subject to new labor agreements at the affected plants, in addition to "favorable government rulings and final internal approvals."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 7201 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (66%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; VANS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; UTILITY VEHICLES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; FORECASTS; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (96%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); OVERTIME (74%); JOB CREATION (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (65%); SALES PROJECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



464 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Tories Seen Softening Thatcherite Free-Market Orthodoxy

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, April 13

 BODY:
In their 13 years in power, first under Margaret Thatcher and now John Major, the Conservatives have believed that the best way to help business was to expose it to the rigors of the free market and minimize Government involvement in business affairs.
But after the Conservatives' election victory last Thursday, economists, business and union leaders are expecting a shift in Mr. Major's policies. The reason is that he has appointed an avowed interventionist, Michael Heseltine, to be Secretary of a beefed-up Department of Trade and Industry. 
 Mr. Heseltine, who is 59, has made no policy pronouncements since his appointment on Saturday. But the Oxford-educated, self-made millionaire has long admired Japan and Germany for the way their government-business partnerships enabled them to become economic powers.
 
Economic Partnership

In a book published in 1989, he wrote: "British companies both at home and abroad face competition not only from free-standing, self-financing capitalist enterprise but from other companies that are partners, and sometimes almost agents, of capitalist governments. No government can avoid making strategic judgments about technologically advanced programs. To do nothing is a judgment itself."
Mr. Heseltine's view on industrial policy "goes against the Thatcherite principle of the free market deciding everything," said Peter Gutmann, an economist at National Westminster Bank P.L.C.
The Financial Times noted today that those views have at times sounded more in line with the opposition Labor Party's than his own.
Mr. Heseltine may have tempered his views in recent years. He became noticeably silent on such subjects after joining Mr. Major's Cabinet in November 1990 as Environment Secretary.
 
Use of Incentives
 But many say that at the minimum, his appointment suggests that the Government will become much more willing to use tax and other incentives to shape British industry.
"Heseltine thinks this is an unfair world where all governments give support to their industry and our country is going to lose out if we don't do the same," said Patrick Foley, chief economist of Lloyds Bank P.L.C.
Nobody is expecting the Government to do an about-face and become protectionist, re-nationalize industry or abandon the free-market stance that has attracted a flood of foreign investment. But Mr. Heseltine's appointment could mean that Britain will greatly reduce its opposition to the pursuit of some sort of European industrial policy like France, Italy or Germany advocate.
 
Dispute Over Aviation Company
 Mr. Heseltine walked out of Mrs. Thatcher's Cabinet in 1986 after not getting his way in the sale of a Government-owned helicopter company. Then Defense Secretary, he favored selling the company to an all-European consortium. She decided to accept an offer from Italy's Fiat and America's United Technologies.
Under the Thatcherite policies of the last 13 years, the Tories have slashed business taxes, opposed regulation and taken a laissez-faire approach to corporate takeovers -- measures business executives generally loved.
To the dismay of many executives, though, Britain also did a lot less than many other European countries in terms of incentives to encourage investment in new machinery, research and training and in terms of public spending on modernizing the country's road and rail systems.
Corporations and consumer groups also complain that the Conservatives have been reluctant to control the formerly Government-owned utilities that were sold to the private sector. For example, Imperial Chemical Industries says it has to pay outrageously high prices for electricity, which is undermining its competitiveness.
Mr. Heseltine succeeds Peter Lilley, who has been named Social Security Secretary in the new Cabinet.
Mr. Heseltine's expanded Trade and Industry Ministry will have responsibility for energy and small business.
Mr. Heseltine, who made a fortune in real estate and publishing before going into politics, has insisted that he played a big role in carrying out Mrs. Thatcher's policies.
But he has also called for "an enlightened" or "caring capitalism" in which Government teams up with business to rejuvenate inner cities and help the disadvantaged.
He made his comeback in 1990, when he challenged Mrs. Thatcher for the leadership of the Conservative Party and the Government. She fell but Mr. Major, her favorite, won the race to succeed her. In what was seen as an effort to unite the divided party, Mr. Major made Mr. Heseltine Environment Secretary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LYG (NYSE) (63%); LLOY (LSE) (63%); UTX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (67%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (63%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%); CONSERVATIVE PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (62%); HELICOPTERS (60%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (54%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; MAJOR, JOHN (PRIME MIN); HESELTINE, MICHAEL; THATCHER, MARGARET H MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



465 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Olympia Asks for More Time

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 13

 BODY:
Embattled Olympia & York Developments Ltd., declaring itself cash-poor but asset-rich, called on its bankers today to defer interest and principal payments on billions of dollars of debt over the next three months. It also chose Gerald Greenwald, a former Chrysler executive, as its new president to lead it through a huge restructuring.
The highly secretive real estate giant, the biggest commercial landlord in North America, held an unprecedented meeting with representatives from nearly 100 banks in the ballroom of a downtown hotel here. 
 Because of its size and the impact of its operations on financial markets, the company's problems have attracted global attention. Bank stocks have been battered in recent weeks on rumors that lending institutions may have to take heavy losses on their Olympia loans.
But Olympia, controlled by the Reichmann brothers of Toronto, argued today that if the banks went along with its plans, they would all get 100 cents on the dollar.
 
Not Asking for a Haircut
 Olympia "is asking in some cases for extensions of times on maturities; it is asking in some cases for additional advances of loans to give it more time, but it is not asking lenders to take a haircut," said Robert S. Miller Jr., an investment banker who led the restructuring talks today for Olympia.
The company opened some, but not all, of its financial records, showing that it has a current net worth of $5.5 billion (Canadian, or about $4.7 billion United States) and debts of $18.3 billion (Canadian). But these estimates reflect only some of the debt on the company's properties.
Because it does not own 100 percent of all its real estate assets that it controls, the company did not include all the debt on those assets. Bankers said the more complete number would put Olympia's debt in United States funds at $18.5 billion to $19 billion.
The debts include $14.3 billion (Canadian) directly held by Olympia and an additional $4 billion representing obligations of companies it controls, like Gulf Canada Resources Ltd., Canada's third largest oil company, and Abitibi-Price Inc., the world's largest newsprint producer.
"This company is going through a liquidity crisis, but has very substantial equity, and if allowed to operate and manage those assets there is every reason to expect the company will quickly recover its footing," Mr. Miller declared.
Mr. Greenwald, the new president, is the former vice chairman of the Chrysler Corporation and more recently a managing director at Dillon, Read & Company, the New York-based investment banking house.
Mr. Greenwald, who replaces Thomas S. Johnson, the former president of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation in New York, has been a colleague of Mr. Miller. Both had served as senior executives of Chrysler and played key roles in the debt restructuring of the nation's No. 3 auto maker in the early 1980's.
The replacement of Mr. Johnson, who had been chosen only three weeks ago, followed a disagreement with Paul Reichmann, one of the three controlling brothers and the family's strategist, over financial disclosure.
 
Tight-Lipped Bankers
 Bankers left the meeting tight-lipped late this afternoon. But they later said they found the meeting productive. While they have been disturbed by the turmoil at the top of Olympia, many expressed the view that the importance of a single individual was overwhelmed by the need for the restructuring process to go forward.
Both bankers and Olympia officials said that the process had begun and that the next stage, which will be behind closed doors as the company engages with clusters of banks on particular debt issues, will be one of hard and tough bargaining.
Under questioning by reporters today at a briefing after the meeting, Mr. Miller acknowledged that if there was a "massive refusal" of bankers to go along, "it is possible that the company would have no choice but to go through a series" of bankruptcy filings in countries where it does business.
He said this would be "a disaster for all concerned to put this company into liquidation" and expressed confidence that cooperation would be forthcoming.
The cash troubles of Olympia, which have seen it narrowly miss defaulting on several bond issues and failing to repay a bank loan of $450 million (Canadian) that came due April 1, have been brought on by the recession, declining commercial real estate values and upward spiraling costs at its Canary Wharf development in London.
It is the biggest restructuring ever of a private company, and has taken on some of the earmarks of third-world debt negotiations.
 
'Pump-Priming' Funds
 Olympia said it would be asking bankers who have lent money on Canary Wharf to come up with an additional 100 million of "pump priming" funds to help the project along.
The company's troubles have been somewhat lessened by the re-election of British Conservatives in last week's elections. The British Conservative Government is not only more favorably disposed to it than has been the opposition Labor Party, but it is likely to become a major tenant.
The Reichmanns have already spent $3.5 billion (United States) on the huge complex on the Isle of Dogs in east London, several miles east of London's financial district. It is built on cheap land, so its rents are low. But for it to be commercially viable a subway extension must be built with public money.
Despite rumors to the contrary, Olympia said today that it was not contemplating any major asset sales.
"It so happens that the real estate market, the newsprint market and the energy market are all at cyclical lows," Mr. Miller said, "and we don't think it makes any sense for this company or its lenders to enter into mass sales of assets."
Mr. Miller also said he did not think any banks "will be grabbing assets," adding, "They all understand that values here will depend on the company continuing to manage for the long term."
Sensing that assets might be for sale, a Hong Kong billionaire, Li Ka-shing, announced a week ago that he was interested in some of Olympia's holdings. Mr. Li had paid $57.5 million last October to buy a 49 percent stake in one of Olympia's office towers at 60 Broad Street.
Mr. Li had been expected in Toronto this week for possible negotiations with the Reichmanns, but his aides said late last week they knew of no such plans.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerald Greenwald (pg. D6)
 
Chart: "Changing Jobs . . .Again"
 Olympia & York, a troubled real estate company, announced yesterday the Gerald Greenwald would take over as president and would be named deputy chief executive. It is not the first time Mr. Greenwald has stepped into the fray.
 May 1990: Mr. Greenwald, the heir apparent to Lee A. Iaococca, resigned as vice chairman of Chrysler, amid talk that he would lead the unions' attempt to buy United Airlines from UAL Inc.
 Mr. Greenwald, who was paid $1.1 million a year at Chrysler, was one of the executives who helped revive the auto maker in the early 1980's by negotiating bank loans guaranteed by the U.S. Government.
 In a statement, Mr. Greenwald said, "I've been offered an opportunity to lead another great company during a period of major transition, and it's an opportunity I can't turn down."
 Oct. 1990: The buyout attempt organized by Mr. Greenwald was turned down by the UAL board because it lacked financing. Mr. Greenwald, who was paid a $5 million fee by the unions for leaving Chrysler, was to receive an additional $4 million fee and part of his $1.2 million annual salary.
 April 1991: Mr. Greenwald joined Dillon, Read & Company as a managing director, "I feel like I'm a young man just starting out," said Mr. Greenwald, then 55. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Chronology

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); RFP (TSX) (54%); RFP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (54%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

COMPANY: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS CANADA CO (63%); DILLON READ & CO INC (61%); RESOLUTE FOREST PRODUCTS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; REAL ESTATE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); NEWSPRINT (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); PAPER MILLS (65%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; GREENWALD, GERALD ROBERT S MILLER JR (64%); GERALD GREENWALD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



466 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Prime Is Cut By Chemical; Others Hold

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Chemical Banking Corporation cut its prime lending rate to 6 1/4 percent yesterday from 6 1/2 percent.
The cut, which put the rate at its lowest point since May 1976, followed last Thursday's move by the Federal Reserve to push down short-term interest rates by a quarter percentage point. 
 No other large banks followed Chemical's lead, and bankers, who said they were continuously assessing their prime rates, declined to speculate whether other banks would cut their prime rates for competitive reasons.
Analysts noted that Chemical was by far the leading bank for small- and medium-sized businesses in the New York area. Since its merger with the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation late last year, Chemical has developed the financial muscle to be more aggressive in setting lower prices to gain greater market share.
 
Many Small Borrowers
 Chemical is the leading bank in the New York area for more than 30,000 medium-sized businesses, which are too small to borrow money in the securities markets and rely heavily on banks for financing.
"The 6.25 percent prime reflects the lower interest rates that are in the market and our desire to pass on those lower rates to our customers," said John Meyers, a Chemical spokesman.
Besides helping many business borrowers, a lower prime rate will eventually benefit many of Chemical's consumers with credit-card, home-equity and other installment loans that are tied to the prime rate.
Robert B. McKinley, director of research at RAM Research, a Frederick, Md., concern that monitors the credit-card industry, noted that about one in five credit cards had an interest rate tied to the prime.
Chemical will adjust the rates on its variable-rate credit cards on May 15, the regular quarterly adjustment date.
The cut in the prime rate does not have much impact on home mortgage rates, most of which fluctuate according to yields on Treasury securities. The interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, which had been moving between 9 percent and 9.125 percent in recent weeks, averaged 8.89 percent in the week of April 10, according to HSH Associates, a Butler, N.J., publishing company that monitors the mortgage markets.
Interest rates on adjustable mortgages, which are generally tied to Treasury bill rates, not the prime rate, now average 6.13 percent.
 
Lagging Behind Fed
 Over the last three years, as the prime rate has declined from 11 1/2 percent in early 1989, banks have generally cut their lending rates more slowly than the Federal Reserve has cut other interest rates.
The Fed's quarter-point cut last week in the Federal funds rate brought the rate banks charge each other for short-term loans down to 3.75 percent. The central banks' strategy has been to help improve bank profits and provide capital to compensate for heavy bank losses on commercial real estate loans.
Analysts at Oppenheimer & Company calculated that the average interest margin for 30 large banks -- the difference between the interest rate banks receive for loans and other investments and what they pay on for deposits and other funds -- averaged 4.06 percent in 1991, up from 3.82 percent in 1990.
Recent earnings reports show that the interest rate spreads remain healthy and are increasing at some banks. The First Chicago Corporation, for example, said that its margin was 3.07 percent in the first quarter of this year, up from 2.99 percent a year earlier and 2.89 percent in the fourth quarter of 1991.
The Wachovia Corporation, a large bank based in Winston Salem, N.C., said yesterday that a wider interest rate spread had helped lift its profits in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Prime-Rate Drop at Chemical" shows the prime rate for Chemical Bank from '76-'92. (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); MARYLAND, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; PRIME RATE PRIME RATES (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); INTERBANK LENDING (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL JOHN R MEYERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



467 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Chief Urges Rise In Fines for Business Fraud

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Saying the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs needs a bigger stick to enforce consumer-protection laws, Commissioner Mark Green yesterday called for increases in the fines his agency levies.
Mr. Green's call for more enforcement power came as he released a 90-page report on business fraud, which he said was being perpetrated in the city at an unprecedented rate because fines were no deterrent. For example, he said, during the last year and a half city inspectors found that one in six premium gasoline pumps in the city were dispensing regular. 
 "Honest businesses and innocent consumers in our city are losing hundreds of millions of dollars to 'crime in the suites,' " Mr. Green wrote in the introduction to the report, which he called "an empirical retrospective on my two years of experience in this post."
Mr. Green noted that the maximum fine for violating the Consumer Protection Law, which covers deceptive trade practices, like false advertising, is $500, the same as in 1972. As a result, he said, city businesses, when they consider the potential profits of fraud, simply figure the fines into the cost of doing business.
Business fraud is "so pervasive," Mr. Green wrote, "that it corrodes both our competitive market economy and our quality of life."
He said that maximum fines should be at least tripled, so that the law would be as potent as it was in 1972, and suggested that increasing fines tenfold would bring New York City consumer protection laws in line with those of other states. He concluded: "It's time that the fine fit the crime."
Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, who has collaborated with Mr. Green on several books, endorsed the report yesterday as "pioneering," saying that its findings are proof that "consumer protection agencies are toothless tigers trying to gum their way to credibility." The finding that there are "low fines, infrequently assessed," he said, "mocks the very notion that there are consumer laws out there to protect people." Mr. Nader said he would bring the report to the attention of consumer agencies on the state and national levels.
The report, which may well confirm the fears of many New Yorkers, details cases of consumers being tricked or bilked by false advertising, bait-and-switch schemes and outright fraud, as when used merchandise is sold as new. Mr. Green said the information was compiled by department inspectors "in the ordinary course of enforcing the law."
 
Gas, Food, Dodging
 In addition to the gasoline fraud, inspectors found that 1 of 10 supermarket scanners charge regular prices for sale items, 9 of 10 independent pay phones illegally fail to inform consumers of their often exorbitant rates and a third of all scales that measure grocery items like salads, deli meats and fresh fish illegally fail to deduct the weight of the wrapping paper and the container.
"That may not sound like a big deal," Mr. Green said, "but it costs consumers $12 million a year because delis charge for the container."
He said he expected resistance from some segments of the business community. "They may argue they're having a hard time in the recession," he said, "but it's a recession for consumers, too."
Evangeline Binder, vice president in charge of government affairs for the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said yesterday afternoon that she had not yet read the full report but added, "The chamber does not support unscrupulous vendors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONSUMER AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINES (PENALTIES); RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING CONSUMER LAW (93%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (93%); FINES & PENALTIES (91%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MEATS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (COMR); WEBER, BRUCE RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



468 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Votes to Extend Building Permits for Years

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 13

 BODY:
Over the strong objections of environmentalists, the Assembly gave overwhelming final approval today to a bill that would automatically extend local building permits through 1994.
The bill, which was backed by the state's powerful construction industry, passed the Assembly by a vote of 61 to 8, with Democrats and Republicans on both the winning and losing sides. Gov. Jim Florio has not indicated whether he will sign the legislation, saying he must weigh the needs of the economy and the environment. 
 Proponents of the legislation say it is needed so that building projects deferred by the recession can be started again without long delays. Opponents maintain that it would allow construction of projects that might not meet the more extensive environmental requirements that have been put in place since 1989, and in some cases, several years earlier.
One of the strongest arguments against the extension came from Assemblywoman Maureen Odgen, a Republican of Millburn. She called the bill "a calculated attempt to emasculate" the 1987 Freshwater Wetlands Protection Act, of which she was a prime backer.
The bill would automatically extend most building permits that expired after Jan. 1, 1989, through Dec. 31, 1994.
"It undoes years of municipal planning and might allow untested projects to go ahead that would fail today's requirements," said Rob Stuart, research director of the New Jersey Public Interest Research Group, which opposed the extension.
 
Support for Industry
 However, the legislation, which passed the Senate, 33 to 1, two weeks ago, was supported by both the Republican and Democratic leadership as a spur to an ailing construction industry that has put many approved projects on hold because of the sagging economy.
Democratic Assembly Minority Leader Joseph V. Doria Jr. of Bayonne commended the bill's Assembly sponsors, Robert D. Franks of New Providence, who is also the Republican State Chairman, and Frank Catania of Hawthorne, the Republican Deputy Speaker of the Assembly.
"This legislation has been put together to deal with the problem of the environment as well as to assist the construction industry," Mr. Doria said, and added that the bill as it now stands provides "more than adequate protection" to the environment.
Amendments incorporated into the bill eliminate the automatic extension of permits for resource-recovery incinerators, wastewater treatment plants and any development in the South Jersey Pinelands.
 
New Approvals Required
 In cases where projects require sewer service but treatment capacity is limited, the building permit will be extended, but the builder must reapply for sewer taps.
Mr. Franks said the permit extension "will put new life into an industry severely wounded by the recession, with no more time wasted by reapplying for permits, and no more money wasted on lawyer and experts" to meet environmental demands.
 
Concern Over Confusion
 Neither opponents nor supporters of the legislation were able to say how many building permits would be affected by the extension, since the permits are issued at the local level.
Opponents were also unable to cite specific projects that they felt would skirt new regulations and damage the environment.
Assemblyman David C. Russo, Republican of Midland Park, opposed the extension for that reason. "How many permits would be affected? No one has any answer," he said in floor debate.
That, he said, could work against new permits, because local officials in charge of granting them might be wary of allowing new projects when they do not know which old ones might be revived by the permit extension.
"How can you vote for new construction when you don't know how many old projects will be revisited?" he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert D. Franks, Assemblyman and New Jersey Republican Chairman, listening yesterday during debate on a bill he co-sponsored that would extend local building permits through 1994. The bill passed. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); LAW AND LEGISLATION; ENVIRONMENT; LICENSES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION LEGISLATION (91%); BUILDING PERMITS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (84%); APPROVALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (74%); WETLANDS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); WATER QUALITY (69%); CITIES (51%); 

PERSON: FRANKS, ROBERT D (ASSEMBLYMAN); KING, WAYNE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



469 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Cheap and Abundant Power May Shutter Some Reactors

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Nuclear plants that provide 10 percent of the nation's nuclear power may be closed this decade because their operating costs are too high to compete against a rising tide of cheap surplus electricity, experts say.
More than 100 plants under construction were abandoned in the 1970's and 80's because of their cost. But the idea that an operating nuclear plant is not competitive with other sources of electricity violates the fundamental logic of nuclear power, which is that plants may be expensive to build but are cheap to run. 
 "It used to be that everyone said, once you built it, there wasn't any question that costs were lower," said Victor Gilinsky, an energy consultant and former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. "Now they are more expensive to run than other plants."
 
Aging Steam Generators
 In the next few years, at least 10 utilities will need to replace steam generators, which are giant heat exchangers that have shown a tendency to rust and crack, said Gary R. Doughty, an expert on plant life extension with the Nielsen Wurster Group, a consulting firm in Hartford. The job generally runs about $150 million for each reactor.
Other utilities face questions about the condition of their reactor vessels, the great steel pots that hold the fuel. Years of bombardment by neutrons, the subatomic particles that sustain a chain reaction, are known to make metal more brittle, but the extent of the problem is not clear.
Some utilities that operate a single reactor may be tempted to pull the plug, he said, because that would allow elimination of an entire division.
In Rowe, Mass., the owners of the 32-year-old Yankee Rowe reactor decided in February that the plant was too small and too old to justify the investment needed to keep it in service, given the general power surplus in its region. Southern California Edison reached a similar judgment recently about its 24-year-old San Onofre 1 plant near San Clemente, although the plant has not yet been shut. And last year the Sacramento Municipal Utility District decided to shut the Rancho Seco plant as uneconomic at the age of 15. Others around the country were retired in earlier years, some at even younger ages.
With only a handful of additional plants likely to be finished and no new ones on order, the result could be an accelerated march to the extinction of nuclear power in the United States. Currently, 108 are operating, producing about 20 percent of the nation's electricity. Some of those, however, are doing very well; in 1991, 25 plants set records for themselves in the number of kilowatt-hours produced.
John F. Ahearne, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and now the director of Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Society, said that plants that were not economic were more likely to be shut now than they would have been a few years ago. In the last 10 years, he said, the utilities have come to be dominated by business managers, replacing what he called "technologists," or "people who were committed to nuclear power because they thought it was just a good thing for this country."
 
The Bottom Line
 In the view of the business managers, he said, "the role of a utility is to make money." They are the people who canceled over-budget reactor construction projects in the 1980's, he said, and they are willing to shut plants now if there are cheaper alternatives.
The price of oil, which is currently low, plays a small role in keeping the electricity market highly competitive, especially in places like New York, which uses oil for about 20 percent of electricity generation. But nationally, electricity made from oil is less than 5 percent of total generation.
Natural gas plays a far larger role, because it represents about 10 percent of the utilities' fuel use nationally, and about half the generators recently completed or under construction use natural gas. On the basis of energy content, natural gas prices have been substantially below oil prices recently.
In addition, overall demand for power has been driven down by recession and by conservation measures, with utilities often subsidizing customers' installation of light bulbs, motors and other devices that will do the same work with less power.
 
Price May Rise
 Some experts believe that as the economy turns around, the demand for power will rise and hence its price. In addition, requirements of the new Clean Air Act will raise the cost of coal-fired power, and if the United States institutes a carbon tax in the next few years to stave off global warming, that would make nuclear power more competitive, too.
Experts are not sure how many nuclear plants will shut in this decade. The chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Ivan Selin, said in a telephone interview that three or four were vulnerable soon. Mr. Ahearne said it could be 10 by the end of the decade.
Mr. Selin said it was unlikely that any utility would decide to close a plant that was running smoothly and was not in immediate need of any big investment. But if a plant required a large investment, he said, "that could push it over the brink." In that category he put the Consumers Power Company's Palisades plant, near South Haven, Mich., which opened in 1971, where the pressure vessel may now be brittle, the same weakness that was suspected at Yankee Rowe; Consumers Power's Big Rock Point plant, in Charlevoix, Mich., opened in 1965, which has no known significant flaws but is by far the smallest still operating, and Rochester Gas and Electric's Robert E. Ginna plant, near Rochester, which opened in 1970 and faces the expensive replacement of its steam generators.
All those plants are old and fairly small. Mr. Selin said it was far from clear whether the problem would extend into the large plants that entered service in the mid-1970's. But it might, he said in a telephone interview.
"There are two ways of looking at it," Mr. Selin said. "You can say each is different, and there is no trend, or you can say there's an underlying trend here. The financial people are beginning to worry about an underlying trend."
In fact, Lehman Brothers organized a conference for utility investors last month on the question of whether old plants were still economic. It drew two dozen investment managers.
The Utility Data Institute, a firm in Washington that charts operating costs, reported recently that in 1990 fuel, operating and maintenance expenses at nuclear plants came to $21.89 for one thousand kilowatt-hours produced, about as much electricity as a typical household uses in two months. At a coal plant, the fuel, operating and maintenance cost for the same amount of energy was $20.24. The coal cost was up slightly in 1990 and the nuclear cost down compared with 1989, but nuclear has exceeded coal for the last several years.
Those figures are an average for all nuclear plants, meaning that some are significantly higher.
 
Relicensing a Question
 The old reactors have a variety of factors working against them.
Mr. Doughty of Nielsen Wurster pointed out that a plant that was nearing the expiration of its 40-year operating license and needed major investments would have to face the economics of amortizing the expenses over the few remaining years of operation. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has established a policy for granting license extensions, but no plant has yet applied and no one is sure how easy it will be to get one.
Carl A. Goldstein, a spokesman for the U.S. Council for Energy Awareness, the nuclear industry's public relations arm, said that more plants would probably be found to be uneconomic, but that the point at which a plant should be written off could not be defined until the Nuclear Regulatory Commission made clearer what would be required for a plant to be re-licensed. And nuclear economics could improve, he said, because plant operating and maintenance expenses could decline.
Mr. Doughty said that investing new money still made good sense for most plants, but that he feared that reactors with 6,000 megawatts of capacity, or about 6 percent of the nation's total nuclear capacity, would shut in the next few years.
 
Reason to Stay Open
 How much is ultimately closed may depend on how state rate regulators handle the costs, said Peter Bradford, the chairman of the Public Service Commission in New York and also a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Mr. Bradford, a speaker at the Lehman Brothers session, said a utility with a large investment in a reactor might seek to keep it running so it could continue to collect depreciation, even if cheaper power were available elsewhere.
That, he said, would create a conflict between the interest of customers, who would want the plant closed, and the interest of the utility, which would want to let it run. The solution, he said, would be to allow utilities to write off plants that had become economically obsolete, and collect the investment from customers.
"Otherwise, the utility doesn't have the incentive to make the right decision," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Utlities may be tempted to pull the plug on existing nuclear plants as they become too expensive to operate. Owners of the 32-year-old Yankee Rowe reactor in Rowe, Mass., closed it in February because the plant was too small and too old to justify the investment needed to keep it in service. (Associated Press) (pg. D25)
 
Table: "Nuclear Plant Retirements"

 	 	 	Plant, location	Years in operation	Size, in megawatts	San Onofre 1, San Clemente, Calif.	1968-1992 or 1993	436	Yankee Rowe, Rowe, Mass.	1961-1991	175	Rancho Seco, Sacramento, Calif.	1975-1989	918	Fort St. Vrain, Platteville, Colo.	1979-1989	330	La Crosse, Genoa, Wis.	1969-1988	50	Dresden 1, Morris, Ill.	1959-1978	207	Humboldt Bay, Eureka, Calif.	1962-1976	65	Shippingport, Shippingport, Pa.	1957-1982	60	Indian Point 1, Buchanan, N.Y.	1962-1980	265	Peach Bottom 1, Peach Bottom, Pa.	1966-1974	40	Fermi 1, Newport, Mich.	1963-1972	61	Elk River, Elk River, Minn.	1962-1968	22	CVTR, Puerto Rico	1962-1967	17	Pathfinder, Sioux Falls, S.D.	1964-1967	59	Piqua, Piqua, Ohio	1962-1967	59	Hallam, Hallam, Neb.	1962-1964	75	
 
Graph: "At What Cost" shows average cost, in cents per kilowatt hour, for fuel, operation and maintenance of nuclear power plants, 1982-1990. The cost at the most economical nuclear plant was 1.21 cents per kilowatt-hour in 1990. The highest cost was more than 5 cents. (Source: Utility Data Institute) (pg. D25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); EUREKA, CA, USA (67%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); SACRAMENTO MUNICIPAL UTILITY DISTRICT (52%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); EUREKA, CA, USA (67%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (79%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L; GILINSKY, VICTOR

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



470 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Hilton Hotels' Profit Up 80%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., April 13

 BODY:
The Hilton Hotels Corporation said today that first-quarter profits rose 80 percent from last year's war-depressed levels, with gains in both casino and hotel operations.
Profits rose to $22.2 million, or 46 cents a share, from $12.3 million, or 26 cents a share, in the first quarter of 1991. Revenue rose 3.5 percent, from $266.9 million to $276.3 million, Hilton said. 
 Gaming income rose 21 percent, to $40.8 million, while hotel operating income was up 55 percent, to $13.2 million, the company said.
Hilton said a hotel in Long Beach, Calif., was opened during the quarter and that it planned open a hotel-casino in Istanbul, Turkey, next month.
The hotel chain has also announced joint ventures to develop a huge casino and family entertainment center in Chicago and a gambling boat in New Orleans.
But Barron Hilton, chairman and president, said the industry still faced lingering problems from the recession and overbuilding.
Hilton's stock rose $2.125 today, closing at $49.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HLT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (98%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (98%); 

COUNTRY: TURKEY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (67%); 

COMPANY: HILTON HOTELS CORP HILTON WORLDWIDE (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HILTON HOTELS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (67%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); CASINOS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); GAMING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); JOINT VENTURES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



471 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Wieden & Kennedy Gets Ad Age Award

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
After forgoing the selection of an American agency of the year for 1990, Advertising Age has named Wieden & Kennedy of Portland, Ore., as agency of the year for 1991.
In this week's issue, the advertising trade weekly saluted the iconoclastic shop "for its artistry in generating and maintaining creative momentum during an ecomonic recession," for clients like Nike and Subaru of America. Last year, for the first time, Advertising Age did not select an agency of the year because its editors said they could not find one whose work was innovative enough. 
 Lintas Australia in Sydney and Melbourne was honored as international agency of the year for 1991, for what the editors called "fresh, attention-grabbing, compelling" advertising for clients like Fuji film and Honda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (67%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (91%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (52%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

COMPANY: ADVERTISING AGE (MAGAZINE); WIEDEN & KENNEDY WIEDEN & KENNEDY INC (92%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING AGE (MAGAZINE); WIEDEN & KENNEDY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (67%); OREGON, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (52%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



472 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY EARNINGS;
J.P. Morgan and Wachovia Post Gains

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan & Company and the Wachovia Corporation, two banking companies renowned for avoiding loan losses, both announced strong gains in first-quarter earnings yesterday.
Besides extremely low losses from bad loans, both companies benefited from reductions in their overhead expenses and a wider spread between the interest rates they pay for deposits and other borrowed funds and the interest rates they earn from loans and investments. 
 At J. P. Morgan, which specializes in trading for its own account and providing financial advice to large corporations and governments, showed a profit rise of 9.5 percent from the first quarter of last year. At Wachovia, based in Winston-Salem, N.C., earnings jumped 26.2 percent.
Following are the details of the two banking companies' results:
 
J. P. Morgan
 Profits at J. P. Morgan totaled $299 million, or $1.50 a share, up from $273 million, or $1.40 a share, a year earlier.
The earnings were limited by a sharp downturn in revenues from securities and currency trading, a business that is a specialty of the bank but one vulnerable to unexpected changes in markets. Including a previously disclosed $50 million loss from trading mortgage-backed securities, trading revenues totaled $165 million, down from the record $446 million a year earlier and $245 million in the fourth quarter.
The company said revenue from trading stocks and commodities improved, while revenues from trading bonds and foreign exchange declined.
The drop in overall trading revenues was offset by a $100 million profit from securities held in Morgan's investment portfolio, up from a $14 million loss a year ago.
Morgan also benefited from an increase in its interest spread -- the difference between what it paid for deposits and other funds and what it received on loans and investments - to 1.83 percent, from 1.57 percent a year earlier.
The wider interest spread, plus a $6.6 billion increase in interest earning assets -- primarily securities held for trading or investment -- enabled Morgan to increase its net interest income to $414 million, up $95 million from a year ago, but little changed from the fourth quarter.
 
Wachovia
 Wachovia earned $106.1 million, or $1.21 a share in the first quarter, compared with $84.1 million, or 97 cents a share, in the first quarter last year.
A gain in interest earnings accounted for most of the bank's improved profits. Although weak loan demand led to a drop in loans outstanding to $19.9 billion, from $21 billion a year earlier, Wachovia was able to increase its interest income, after subracting interest paid, to $309.4 million, from $284.7 million a year ago and $295.5 million in the fourth quarter.
Interest income increased despite a drop in loans because of a wider spread between interest rates the company received and interest rates it paid. The average interest rates the company paid and received will be published next month in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but were not available from the company yesterday.
Following its acquisition of the South Carolina National Corporation late last year, Wachovia's losses from bad loans have returned to their traditional low level. In the first quarter, the company added $34.6 million to its reserve for loan losses, down from $45.2 million a year ago, and far below the $163.1 million it added in the fourth quarter.
Write-offs for bad loans have also returned to a more normal level. They totaled $26.9 million in the first quarter, up slightly from $26.1 million a year ago but well below $103.1 million in the fourth quarter of 1990.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); WFC (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO; WACHOVIA CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); WELLS FARGO & CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO; WACHOVIA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



473 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Dow Advances 14.53 in Very Slow Trading

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stock prices closed higher yesterday, supported by a surprising earnings report from Alcoa but held back by sharp losses in Tokyo.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 14.53 points, to 3,269.90, with gains outpacing losers, 960 to 773, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 A flood closed the futures and options markets in Chicago, halting financial futures trading, which is linked with stocks in New York.
The Chicago breakdown and an overall cautious climate kept trading volume at 143.1 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the second lowest of the year and down from Friday's 199.45 million.
 
Nervousness About Earnings
 Although encouraged by low interest rates, investors have been nervous about coming first-quarter earnings reports that began to trickle in yesterday.
"The market is still waiting for earnings, and there is no certainty as to what this week will bring," said Alan Ackerman, a market strategist at Reich & Company. "There is no urgency about buying stocks."
But one of the first earnigs reports was encouraging, accounting for much of the rise in Dow. Alcoa, one of the 30 Dow stocks, jumped 5 3/4, to 73 3/4, after reporting better-than-expected first-quarter profits. Although the aluminum company's earnings dropped to 89 cents a share in the quarter from $1.14 last year, the profit was about four times what analysts were expecting.
The market's buying conviction remained shaky, however, as investors awaited the bulk of first-quarter earnings, including I.B.M., which is due to report today.
 
Opening on Sour Note
 The day began on a sour note even before the exchanges opened in New York. The key Tokyo stock indicator, the Nikkei index of 225 issues, fell 3.4 percent yesterday, giving up a big Friday gain and returning to the pattern of big losses of the last few weeks.
The American stock market got a lift later in the morning from a cut in the prime lending rate by the Chemical Banking Corporation.
The nation's second-largest bank group cut its benchmark lending rate by a quarter-point, to 6 1/4 percent, but other banks did not follow. Chemical's stock closed unchanged at 31 3/4.
The cut in the prime followed a move by the Federal Reserve last Thursday to cut its target for the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to 3.75 percent from 4 percent. This rate is a benchmark for other lending rates and was cut to give the sluggish economy a lift, and some analysts expect more rate reductions.
"With the U.S. economy at such a significant crossroads, it is likely the Fed will lower rates to rekindle enthusiasm," Mr. Ackerman said.
 
Movement in I.B.M.
 Among active issues, I.B.M. closed up 1 1/2, to 87 1/2. The computer maker said earlier that it had begun reducing its domestic work force through voluntary buyouts and attrition under its previously announced plan.
Digital Equipment rose 3/8, to 45 5/8, rebounding after a big loss last week.
Boeing rose 7/8, to 45 3/4. Analysts said the aircraft maker had captured a long-awaited order for its 777 twinjet from Cathay Pacific Airways.
Greenwich Pharmaceuticals shed 3, to 11, after the company said it was evaluating its final phase of studies on an arthritis drug; it gave no encouraging news, traders said.
J. P. Morgan fell 1, to 54 1/4, after reporting first-quarter results of $1.50 a share against $1.40 a year earlier. Analysts noted concern that the bank's weak trading revenues could herald similar results at other banks. Bankers Trust dropped 1, to 51 1/2.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks closed up 1.79 at 406.08; the American Stock Exchange index closed up 0.88 at 388.89, and the Nasdaq index of over-the-counter stocks was up 3.91, to 588.15.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.89 point, to 224.16.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AAI (ASX) (58%); AA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (58%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); REICH & CO INC (69%); ALCOA INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (88%); PRIME RATES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN ACKERMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



474 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises After Reports Of Russia Resignation Offers

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday after reports that senior Russian Government officials had offered to resign.
Gold prices were lower. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold closed at $339.20 a troy ounce, down $1.90 from Friday. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold bullion at $338.80 an ounce, down $1.85 from Friday's quote. 
 Many investors bought dollars as a protective investment when they heard that the Cabinet of President Boris N. Yeltsin had offered to resign en masse. The Cabinet members were protesting a vote by the Russian Parliament on Saturday to demand changes in Mr. Yeltsin's economic reforms.
Mr. Yeltsin has asked the officials to stay on for a few days until he decides whether to accept their resignations.
"Clearly the knee-jerk reaction from any news out of Russia would be a move into the dollar," said Stephen Flanagan, vice president at Mitsubishi Bank.
Robert Hatcher, a currency dealer for Barclays Bank, agreed. "Geopolitical factors seem to be center stage right now," Mr. Hatcher said. In the wake of the Russian developments, he said traders were selling German marks instead of buying dollars.
"Any unsettled situation over there immediately upsets holders of mark assets," Mr. Hatcher said.
In late trading in London, the dollar closed at 1.6550 German marks, up from 1.6375 late Friday. In New York, the dollar closed at 1.6530 German marks, up from 1.6360 late Friday.
Traders said a move by the New York-based Chemical Banking Corporation to cut its prime lending rate by a quarter-point, to 6 1/4 percent, had minimal effect on the dollar's value. No other major banks followed Chemical's lead.
In London, the British pound was quoted at $1.7630, down from $1.7655 late Friday. At closing in New York, the pound brought $1.7625, down from $1.7660 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIME RATES (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); 

PERSON: ROBERT F HATCHER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



475 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Hudson County Prices Bonds

 BODY:
A $135.3 million debt refunding by the Hudson County, N.J., correction facility was tentatively priced yesterday through a group of underwriters led by the First Boston Corporation. The bonds have a maximum yield of 6.65 percent for a 6.6 percent bond due in 2021
The tax-exempt certificates of participation, which are in serial form, are priced to yield 5.25 percent for an issue due in 1996, 6.1 percent in 1992 and 6.3 percent in 2004 and 2005. For a longer maturity, a bond due in 2011 is priced to yield 6.58 percent. 
 Insurance issued by the Municipal Bond Investor's Assurance Corporation covers interest and principal payments and gives the financing a AAA rating by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Proceeds from the financing will be used for early retirement of some debt that was issued when interest rates were higher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (70%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUDSON COUNTY (NJ) UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (82%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



476 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Goodyear Sees A Turnaround

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, April 13

 BODY:
The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company expects to report earnings of up to $65 million in the first quarter, compared with a punishing loss a year earlier, its chairman, Stanley C. Gault, said today.
Mr. Gault said at the annual meeting of shareholders that the expected results were a sign that its strategies were working. New marketing agreements with Sears, Roebuck; Wal-Mart, and Canadian Tire have increased the number of outlets where Goodyear tires are available by 2,100 stores. 
 In trading on the New York Stock Exchange today, Goodyear shares rose $2.125, to $70.75.
The tire maker, under the guidance of Mr. Gault, the former Rubbermaid Inc. chairman, has revamped its distribution and operating systems and bounced back from huge losses in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
In the first quarter of 1991, Goodyear lost $90.1 million.
"First quarters in the tire industry historically are the worst and last year's was no exception for Goodyear," Mr. Gault said. "However, we believe our shareholders will be pleased to see the progress Goodyear associates continue to record despite a continuing depressed world economy."
In addition, Mr. Gault said, Goodyear has continued to reduce its enormous debt. The tire maker entered the 1990's about $3 billion in debt. Mr. Gault said the company's debt had been cut to below $2.6 billion through increased efficiencies and the sale of non-tire businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (96%); GT (NASDAQ) (96%); GT (BRU) (96%); NWL (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (96%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (96%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (96%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (96%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (96%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (70%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (70%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (70%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (96%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS TIRE MFG (90%); TIRES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); 

PERSON: STANLEY C GAULT (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



477 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Fall Collections End On a Brighter Note

BYLINE: By BERNADINE MORRIS

 BODY:
The fall fashion shows opened in Milan, Italy, last month on a lugubrious note with mournful colors, longer skirts and a feeling that the slow economy through most of the world had deflected interest in new clothes. By the time the last designers had introduced their collections in New York on Friday, the mood and the perception had changed.
Having experimented with longer clothes for a year, designers had figured out how to do them successfully. Long, fitted clothes covering the body to the ankles looked as sexy as short ones that bared all. 
 Equally important was the spirit of conciliation in the air as most designers -- Geoffrey Beene was the notable exception with his avoidance of anything that hid the knees -- continued to introduce knee-baring skirts alongside their newer long styles. Nobody wanted to be considered a fashion dictator. Everyone seemed to respect women's reluctance to call their existing wardrobe obsolete.
 
Trousers Are Back
 Uncertainty over hemlines brought trousers back to the fashion foreground as designers with long memories, or access to fashion publications of the period, recalled the events of 1970. That's when hemlines dropped from thigh to calf and women avoided the issue by taking to pants en masse. They stayed with them for a decade.
Even Beene, who refused to lengthen his daytime clothes this time around because he felt longer skirts were too restrictive and not modern, joined the pants enthusiasts. His emphasis was on the jump suit, which formed a backdrop for such wraps as a raincoat reduced to a minimum of seams and a long shaped scarf that caught the air to billow into intriguing patterns.
The Beene collection continues to astonish viewers because of the designer's adventurous spirit and imagination. Over the years he has acquired the technique to make his novel ideas work. Admirers tell him he should show his clothes in Paris to elevate the standing of American design. He is beginning to give the subject some thought.
In quite another vein, Ralph Lauren rattled the rafters with his special take on the men's-wear look for women. He re-created the sexiness of the Marlene Dietrich-Greta Garbo era of the 1930's when the world's most glamorous women wore men's suits. He combined these tailored suits with light memories of the turn-of-the-century Edwardian dandy represented by bowler hats, watch fobs, furled umbrellas and narrow trousers. After seasons of heightened femininity in clothes, this shift to a men's-wear sensibility is an eye-opener.
Calvin Klein's layered approach to sportswear is casual and relaxed. Nothing looks constricted in his clothes. Vests are an integral part of the layering and sometimes a knitted jacket slips over the regular jacket.
Donna Karan seems to have blanketed the world with her collections, which now include "intimates" (bras, lingerie and lounge wear), men's clothes, weekend wear and her signature collection. A long, lean look is dominant, with suit jackets fitted as snugly as sweaters over skinny skirts.
Oscar de la Renta, who helped spur the fad for plaid last year, now put his money on checks. Enlarged houndstooth checked woolens are used for suits, coats, even dresses. The designer, who introduced his collection in Paris last month, showed it in New York last week. In both places, checks received thumbs up.
 
The Animal Motif
 Traditional clothes have their place for the season, especially for evening. Arnold Scaasi offered a choice in dress lengths for day, but for gala evenings emphasized floor-length styles with big bouffant skirts -- styles women need for special events, he said. Among them were graphic dramatic zebra prints in black and white stripes, part of the animal patterns that permeate fashion.
The season's shows also included a new emphasis on leather fashions (coats, jackets, skirts), the inclusion of vests as part of layering in formal and casual daytime outfits, and chalk stripes on navy or gray wool suits and dresses. Knitted clothes also received plenty of attention from designers including Bill Blass, who revitalized the twin sweater set. He gave the cardigan curved edges repeating the lines of several jackets and showed the newly shaped set with big satin skirts.
What started out as a downer ended on a lively note as designers in New York showed clothes that looked fresh without being manic. Dark colors provided a sensible undertone; the fitted shapes may give women a desire to try something new.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Short jacket with asymmetric closing by Geoffrey Beene tops striped T-shirt dress; Yellow, orange and red are the colors for short side-wrap coat by Geoffrey Beene; Casual layering by Calvin Klein shows a relaxed approach to the new fashion season; Ralph Lauren's Edwardian look with bowler hats, canes, slim pants; Arnold Scaasi's graphic tiger stripes in dress for gala evenings; Donna Karan's sexy suit jacket has scooped neckline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FASHION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (73%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (73%); FRANCE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, CALVIN; BEENE, GEOFFREY; LAUREN, RALPH; SCAASI, ARNOLD; KARAN, DONNA; MORRIS, BERNADINE RALPH LAUREN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



478 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Review/Theater: Two Trains Running;
August Wilson Reaches the 60's With Witnesses From a Distance

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
In "Two Trains Running," the latest chapter in his decade-by-decade chronicle of black American life in this century, August Wilson arrives at a destination that burns almost too brightly in memory to pass for history. "Two Trains Running" is Mr. Wilson's account of the 1960's, unfurling at that moment when racial conflict and the Vietnam War were bringing the nation to the brink of self-immolation.
Yet Mr. Wilson's play, which opened last night at the Walter Kerr Theater, never speaks of Watts or Vietnam or a march on Washington. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is mentioned only once. The garrulous characters, the regulars at a Pittsburgh ghetto lunch counter in 1969, are witnesses to history too removed from the front lines to harbor more than the faintest fantasies of justice. They invest their hopes in playing the numbers, not in distant leaders sowing lofty dreams of change. 
 So determined is "Two Trains Running" to avoid red-letter events and larger-than-life heroes that it is easily Mr. Wilson's most adventurous and honest attempt to reveal the intimate heart of history. In place of a protagonist that a Charles Dutton or James Earl Jones might play is a gallery of ordinary people buffeted by larger forces that they can join or gingerly battle but cannot begin to promote or control. While such 60's props as a gun and cans of gasoline do appear in "Two Trains Running," the evening's most violent dramatic event causes no serious injury and takes place offstage. Even so, a larger, national tragedy is spreading underfoot.
As might be expected in a work that departs from every Wilson effort except "Joe Turner's Come and Gone" in its experimental will to demolish the manufactured confrontations of well-made drama, "Two Trains Running" is not without blind alleys. And it is compromised by a somewhat bombastic production, staged by the author's longtime collaborator Lloyd Richards, that sometimes takes off running in a different direction from the writing. But the play rides high on the flavorsome talk that is a Wilson staple. The glorious storytelling serves not merely as picturesque, sometimes touching and often funny theater but as a penetrating revelation of a world hidden from view to those outside it.
Much of the talk is prompted by two deaths that filter into Memphis Lee's restaurant, itself doomed to be demolished. The sole waitress, Risa (Cynthia Martells), grieves for Prophet Samuel, an evangelist whose attainments included a cache of jewelry, a white Cadillac, a harem and a huge flock that is viewing his open casket down the street. The one stranger to visit Memphis Lee's, a newly released convict named Sterling (Larry Fishburne), is latently preoccupied with the 1965 assassination of Malcolm X, not out of any deep ideological convictions but because a rally in the fallen radical's name at the local Savoy Ballroom gives him a pretext to ask Risa for a date.
Though the issue is never articulated, Mr. Wilson's characters are starting to compare the prophets who offer balms for their poverty and disenfranchisement, and no two representative prophets could be more different than Malcolm X and Samuel. But the play's real question may be, as one line poses it, "How we gonna feel good about ourselves?" The liveliest talkers in "Two Trains Running" are members of an older generation skeptical of all externally applied panaceas, secular and religious.
Memphis (Al White), who is negotiating a price for the city's demolition of his restaurant, is confident he can beat the white man at his own game as long as he knows the rules. To him, those who argue that "black is beautiful" sound like "they're trying to convince themselves." Holloway (Roscoe Lee Browne), a retired house painter turned cracker-barrel philosopher, is not only scathing about white men who exploit black labor but also about any effort by what he calls "niggers" to fight back. He sends anyone with a grievance to a mysterious, unseen prophet, the supposedly 322-year-old Aunt Ester, the neighborhood's subliminal repository of its buried African identity and a magical universe of faith and superstitions.
In some of the richest and most hilarious arias, the marvelously dyspeptic Mr. Browne encapsulates the whole economic history of the United States into an explosive formula and reminisces scathingly of a grandfather so enthralled by the plantation mentality he could not wait to die and pick heaven's cotton for a white God. Even nastier gallows humor is provided by West (Chuck Patterson), an undertaker whose practical view of death has made him perhaps the community's keenest social observer and certainly its wealthiest entrepreneur.
As conceived by Mr. Wilson, the monologues, musical in language and packed with thought and incident, are not digressions; they are the play's very fiber. Such plot as there is involves the fate of a symbolic mentally unbalanced man named Hambone (Sullivan Walker) who pointedly "ain't willing to accept whatever the white man throw at him" and the rising political consciousness and romantic ardor of Sterling, whose sincere efforts to cobble a post-penitentiary life and livelihood are constantly frustrated.
Along with the usual Wilson repetitions and the heavy metaphorical use of Hambone (who is a hammier version of the mentally disturbed Gabriel in "Fences"), the flaws of "Two Trains Running" include its inability to make more than a thematic conceit out of its lone woman, Risa, who enigmatically bears self-inflicted razor scars, and its failure to delve far below Sterling's surface, despite a searching performance by Mr. Fishburne. Mr. Wilson's reticence about his two youngest and most crucial characters turns up most glaringly in the pivotal but underwritten Act II scene that brings them together to the music of a previously dormant jukebox.
Mr. Fishburne, who greets each of Sterling's defeats with pride and heroic optimism, and Mr. Browne, an orator of Old Testament fire, are the jewels of the production. The rest of the cast is at most adequate, with Mr. White's ranting Memphis, whose longer soliloquies punctuate both acts, inflicting the greatest damage. The uneven casting is compounded by the harsh, bright lighting, the flatly realistic set and the slam-bang choreography of a text that needs to breathe rather than hyperventilate. Instead of looking like a production that has been polished during its long development process through the country's resident theaters, "Two Trains Running" sometimes seems the battered survivor of a conventionally grueling road tour.
The play fascinates anyway and makes its own chilling point. Just as this is the Wilson work in which the characters are the furthest removed from both Africa and the Old South (to which the untaken trains of the title lead), so it is also the Wilson play closest in time to our own. "You take something apart, you should know how to put it together," says Sterling early on, referring to a wristwatch he hesitates to dismantle. Rough in finish and unresolved at the final curtain, "Two Trains Running" captures a racially divided country as it came apart. That Mr. Wilson's history bleeds so seamlessly into the present is testimony to the fact that the bringing together of that America is a drama yet to unfold.
 
Two Trains Running
 
By August Wilson; directed by Lloyd Richards; scene design by Tony Fanning; costumes by Chrisi Karvonides; lighting by Geoff Korf; production stage manager, Karen L. Carpenter. Presented by Yale Repertory Theater, Stan Wojewodski Jr., artistic director; Center Theater Group/Ahmanson Theater, Gordon Davidson, producing director, and Jujamcyn Theaters, Benjamin Mordecai, executive producer. At the Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, Manhattan.
 
Risa . . . Cynthia Martells
Wolf . . . Anthony Chisholm
Memphis . . . Al White
Holloway . . . Roscoe Lee Browne
Hambone . . . Sullivan Walker
Sterling . . . Larry Fishburne
West . . . Chuck Patterson

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Fishburne, left, and Roscoe Lee Browne in August Wilson's new play, "Two Trains Running." (Jay Thompson/Jeffrey Richards Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TWO TRAINS RUNNING (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); RESTAURANTS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); WRITERS (61%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; WILSON, AUGUST FRANK RICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



479 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Hotels as Well as Amusements Use Fantasy at Euro Disneyland

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MARNE-LA-VALLEE, France, April 11

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company is known for Mickey Mouse and Magic Kingdoms. But in recent years it has also become an aggressive and, despite a reputation for fierce budgetary control, affluent patron of post-modern architecture. That policy has been pursued eagerly in the new Euro Disneyland here.
The actual theme park, as per custom, was designed by Walt Disney Imagineering, and looks like other Magic Kingdoms in Anaheim, Orlando and Tokyo. But with six gigantic hotels, a shopping and night-time entertainment complex and plans for two more theme parks, a European corporate headquarters, a tripling of hotel space, additional golf courses and a second conference center, building should continue to the year 2017. 
 This spring, 5,200 hotel rooms will open on this 5,000-acre site 20 miles east of Paris: five hotels are ready now, with the sixth due on May 1. All but one -- the plush but kitschy Disneyland Hotel overlooking the park, which was done by Dana Aiken and the Disney Imagineers -- have been designed by some of the world's best-known architects .
Following Disney custom, all the hotels are "themed." Surprisingly, given the sensitivity of the French to "cultural imperialism" and Disney's insistence on efforts to foster Franco-American amity, the architects chosen were mostly American and the themes strictly, even stridently, so. The use of French architectural firms to help execute the projects hardly seems to compensate. Then again, Disney knows marketing, and Europeans have shown every sign of lapping up all the Americanness they can get.
Robert A. M. Stern, referring to his fellow Euro Disneyland hotel architects, said: "We're all American except for Antoine Grumbach, and he's an honorary American: he's taught at Princeton. So naturally our themes are American themes."
Frank Gehry, of Los Angeles, was the only one not asked to observe a set theme. He is responsible for Festival Disney, the entertainment and shopping arcade linking the park and Disneyland Hotel with the other hotels. Mr. Stern, from Manhattan, did two hotels, the Newport Bay Club, a huge (1,100 rooms) inflation of a turn-of-the-century Northeastern resort hotel, and the Hotel Cheyenne, a moderate-price hotel cleverly laid out to resemble a Hollywood version of a Wild West town: all the Western-attired hotel employees are asked to greet guests by saying "Howdy," the word in Euro-accented American sounding something like "Audi."
Michael Graves, of Princeton, N.J., was the architect for Hotel New York, which looks less like Manhattan than like a playful abstraction on that theme as realized in, say, Santa Monica, Calif.; apples are everywhere embedded in the interior decor. Mr. Grumbach, who is from Paris, designed the Sequoia Lodge, which attempts to recreate the woodsy warmth and spaciousness of a Teddy Roosevelt-style mountain retreat. And Antoine Predock of Albuquerque, N.M., did the Hotel Santa Fe, an evocation of the Southwest shot through with conceptual notions both evocative and quirky. Other well-known architects and firms involved in ancillary or future projects include Robert Venturi, Aldo Rossi, Gwathmey & Siegel and Arquitectonica.
All this corporate largess owes something to a realization by Disney executives that the shift from cool modernism to today's playfully eclectic post-modernism suited the Disney image of family entertainment mixed with gentle history lessons. In addition, strikingly designed hotels offer solace to adults sated with theme-park cuteness. The hotels may also help counter the philistine Disney image so bitterly resented by some European intellectuals.
But mostly, Disney's new-found interest in architecture reflects the personal passions of Michael Eisner, Disney's chief executive officer. As he put it on Thursday, " 'Corporate vision' is always the result of a few people at the top. Here, what it took was somebody -- in this case, it was me -- to say that architecture is important. You can do something well as economically as you can do something badly."
Mr. Stern, who now has six Disney projects completed and more in the works, first met Mr. Eisner when he designed a New York apartment for his parents, and now he sits on the Disney board. He brushed aside suggestions that Disney pinched pennies and imposed too many creative restrictions.
"Disney pushes for architectural expressiveness, but at the same time they are trying to compete," Mr. Stern said. "Nobody works on an unlimited budget; there are always compromises."
At Euro Disneyland, those compromises express themselves largely in terms of predetermined (and quite small) room sizes and the sometimes overwhelming scale of the project, with elephantine structures bumping against one another around the modest-looking lake. Mr. Stern's Newport Bay Club, despite legitimate precedents in similarly overwhelming mega-hotels in the American past, and despite some elegant interior touches, looks from certain angles like one of those cartoons of Art Deco gigantism, the kind in which entire nightclubs can be set up on one oversize airliner wing.
On the other hand, what is fascinating about the Disney approach to architecture is the variety of styles and ideas and creative control. Disney coordinated landscaping, insisted on "themed" hotels and took a special interest in color schemes to relate to what Mr. Stern -- speaking on a gorgeous sunny day -- called "the terrible, cold, wet French weather." But otherwise, according to the architects, there was considerable latitude.
 
Freedom and Money
 Mr. Gehry insisted that he had been given "complete freedom and a very ample budget" to build his Festival Disney, which he described as "basically a strip commercial shopping center" contained, on one side, in a single long structure bulging upward at the center. "My fish fetish came back here," Mr. Gehry remarked. "It's a big whale, I think."
He did express some regret, however, that he hadn't insisted on doing the sign-lettering and the interiors himself. Mr. Stern and Mr. Graves retained control over the interiors of their projects, while Mr. Grumbach and Mr. Predock -- who seemed loath to show visitors the actual rooms of his Hotel Santa Fe -- did not.
Mr. Stern's Hotel Cheyenne successfully combats the problem of scale by distributing its 1,000 rooms within a rambling Western town of funky charm, complete with false fronts and shoot-'em-ups and hanging trees. To judge from early reactions, the Europeans love it.
Without question the strangest of the hotels is Mr. Predock's. "For me, the value of architecture is about something other than overt theming," he said, glaring at assembled Disney executives during a walking tour of the hotels. "If the architecture speaks for itself, it shouldn't have to be narrated."
 
An Explanatory Brochure
 That said, he has contributed the most conceptually complex project of the bunch; he sounded even more intellectually inspired than the sometimes convoluted Mr. Grumbach, who sees his Sequoia Lodge as an environmentally correct nature refuge. So complex is the Hotel Santa Fe that Mr. Predock has written a brochure for guests explaining his ideas.
The sprawling, stark, sometimes rather anonymous mesa-like structures that contain the guest rooms are bound together (conceptually more than visually) by various "trails": the Trail of Artifacts, which includes rusting old cars half-buried in sand; the Trail of Water, with striking and ingenious waterways cropping up unexpectedly; the Trail of Monuments; the Trail of Legends, and the Trail of Infinite Space -- a Route 66-like yellow line running from beyond the entrance to a metallic something-or-other that looks like a crashed U.F.O. crossed with a sombrero. There is also a smoking volcano; a meteorite embedded in a roof; a glass-enclosed "cactus in bondage," as Mr. Predock nicknamed it, and, over the entrance, a giant drive-in movie screen.
Originally, Mr. Predock, who says he was partly inspired by Wim Wenders's film "Paris, Texas," hoped to keep the screen blank, symbolizing the emptiness of the West and the fact that so many drive-ins today have been abandoned. But Disney wanted an image, and what Disney wants Disney gets. Clint Eastwood is now painted on the screen, squinting ominously.
"If it had to be anybody, Clint Eastwood's the one, but I still would like the screen empty," said Mr. Predock, surveying his creation from a hillock at one end of the Trail of Infinite Space. "But guess who wins when you have a fight with Michael Eisner?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Euro Disneyland is made up of much more than a theme park. Among the American architects whose works will house visitors are, from left, Robert A. M. Stern, Michael Graves and Frank Gehry. They are shown at Mr. Gehry's Festival Disney, an entertainment and shopping arcade that links the park and its several hotels. (Walt Disney Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (97%); EDL (PAR) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (97%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (97%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (97%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (97%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EURO DISNEYLAND (FRANCE) WALT DISNEY CO (97%); EURO DISNEY SCA (92%); ORLANDO MAGIC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EURO DISNEYLAND (FRANCE) ORLANDO MAGIC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARNE-LA-VALLEE (FRANCE) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; HOTELS AND MOTELS; AMUSEMENT PARKS ; NYTRAVEL AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); RESORTS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); GOLF (70%); 

PERSON: STERN, ROBERT A M; GRAVES, MICHAEL; GEHRY, FRANK; PREDOCK, ANTOINE; EISNER, MICHAEL D; GRUMBACH, ANTOINE ; ROCKWELL, JOHN FRANK GEHRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



480 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: YACHT RACING;
Just Enough of a Wind Helps Conner Advance

BYLINE: By BARBARA LLOYD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, April 13

 BODY:
Dennis Conner, always the pragmatist until he finds himself losing, said before his sudden-death race in the America's Cup defenders' semifinals today that he was leaving his fate up to the "wind gods." Apparently, they listened.
The gentle, 7-to-9-knot breeze that Conner's yacht, Stars & Stripes, needed to beat Kanza, Bill Koch's heavier-air boat, blew softly during the early stages of the race here. Combined with a skillful start, it was the kind of break Stars & Stripes needed. By the time the breeze picked up, Stars & Stripes had stacked up enough time to finish 2 minutes 12 seconds ahead of Kanza. 
 "This is one of the few races where we never really had a lot of trauma," Conner, the America's Cup defending champion skipper, said after putting Stars & Stripes into the defenders' final by winning this race. "We felt we were in control all the way."
 
One Place Already Set for Koch
 This afternoon's match was sailed to resolve a semifinal tie between the two boats. America3, Koch's other yacht, had already secured a place in the 7-of-13-race final for the Koch syndicate by beating Kanza on Sunday in what was supposed to have been the last semifinal race. The rules allow Koch to choose either of his boats for the final.
In Conner's four other successful cup campaigns, winning the semifinals was never a contest. But this time, Koch's America3 team pressed Conner to the limit. The Stars & Stripes crew sailed each of the last five races as if it were its last.
The Conner camp did what it could to ease the tension this morning, making the Stars & Stripes dock look like a spring carnival. Music from John Philip Sousa's "Stars and Stripes Forever" wafted over a loudspeaker, a part of the team's usual morning inspirational. But then came "Underdog," an upbeat cartoon-show medley played in hopes of taking the edge off an outwardly jovial but decidedly jittery farewell.
The prospect that the 49-year-old Conner could be out of the America's Cup so soon seemed too abrupt for those who have known his match-racing brilliance. Never before in the 18 years that Conner has devoted to the America's Cup had he been confronted with such an early defeat.
 
A Roaring Comeback
 But even when Conner lost, he seemed to win. His defeat to Alan Bond's Australia II team in 1983 cup final set him up for a grandiose comeback in 1987. By going down to Australia and winning back the cup, Conner became an American sports hero. Treated to a ticker-tape parade in New York and a handshake from President Bush at the White House, Conner had moved into a limelight brighter than any other yachtsman had ever experienced.
The realist in Conner knew that he had to work hard to keep up the shine. A burgeoning recession coincided with Conner's fund-raising efforts toward a 1992 America's Cup defense. Unable to come by the money he needed, Conner was forced to settle for a severely limited campaign.
Having one yacht compared withKoch's four-boat stable was like preparing for a dog and pony show while your opponent is getting ready for the derby. That Conner has made it this far is evidence of his tenacity and innate sailing skills. He has displayed spurts of on-the-water showmanship while conceding ashore that both America3 and Kanza are faster than Stars & Stripes.
Koch said his crew was disappointed at not having knocked Stars & Stripes out of the defense trials.
"I wish I had Dennis's luck and my money," Koch said. "The wind was right in his window at 5-to-7, 8, 9 knots. It peaked at 11 knots. Kanza really gets a bone in her teeth at 10 knots."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; RACES AND REGATTAS; AMERICA'S CUP; YACHTS AND YACHTING BOAT RACING (91%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SAILING (90%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); ATHLETES (68%); 

PERSON: CONNER, DENNIS; KOCH, BILL; LLOYD, BARBARA DENNIS CONNER (94%); WILLIAM I 'BILL' KOCH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



481 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: A Weak Housing Plan for Yonkers

 BODY:
After more than a decade of litigation, Yonkers, N.Y., still struggles to desegregate its housing. A new Mayor, Terence Zaleski, promised to move the city away from bruising court battles toward reasonable progress. But he now offers a housing plan that would provide too little too late. The City Council, which is scheduled to vote on the proposal today, ought to reject it.
In 1985, U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand ruled that Yonkers had deliberately promoted segregation in housing and schools for nearly 40 years. The Board of Education devised a school desegregation plan but the City Council balked at a housing remedy. 
 After crippling fines and numerous court appearances, the Council finally agreed to a desegregation plan in 1988 that called for 200 units of low-income housing in mostly white areas; more than half have now been built.
But community resistance and the collapse of the real estate market have stalled progress on another part of the agreement that proposed 800 subsidized units mixed in with 3,200 market-rate units. Despite the decreased prospects for market-rate housing, the city still has an obligation under the court decree to provide the subsidized units.
Last year, faced with the new economic realities and tired of constant foot-dragging, Judge Sand offered the city an opportunity to present a "reasonable" housing alternative. Now Mr. Zaleski proposes a plan that lacks conviction.
He would provide only 625 units -- 225 new plus 400 existing apartments, mostly from unsold units in private cooperative developments. The plan offers bank loans, counseling and other assistance to enable low-income families to become first-time home buyers.
But to make it work, Mr. Zaleski would have to persuade a lot of higher-income co-op owners to accept government-assisted neighbors. That's relying too much on the kindness of strangers. In addition, Mr. Zaleski wants six years to complete the plan. He says he's just being realistic, but his plan smacks of past delaying tactics.
Meanwhile, the city's Fair Housing Office is negotiating to secure several sites and commitments from private developers to build the housing promptly. That seems a better alternative. Judge Sand and those who have fought for desegregated housing in Yonkers have been kept waiting too long.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; EDITORIALS; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS (IN US) CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); JUDGES (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); FAIR LENDING (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (68%); 

PERSON: ZALESKI, TERENCE M (MAYOR) TERENCE ZALESKI (92%); LEONARD SAND (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



482 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Growing Ranks of Homebound Patients Put Strain on Medicaid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"New York Medicaid Strained by Newly Poor" (The Week in Review, March 22) discusses cases of some who are not poor who have qualified for long-term care under Medicaid by impoverishing themselves. But you do not give a complete account of the cause of New York State's Medicaid budget crisis.
Certainly, the home-care system is not the major problem. The majority of the 100,000 home-care patients are poor -- most are very poor. Because they have no way to pay for long-term care (Medicare and most private insurance don't pay for it), they have been made destitute by the system. 
 The economics tell the story. On average, it costs $2,200 a month for home care, with home-care workers earning a meager $6.50 an hour. Institutional alternatives cost more. Patients can afford neither. Most patients in the home-care system didn't earn $2,200 a month when they could work, and few pensions provide that much. As a result, a lifetime's savings can be quickly exhausted.
The cost of care is not the only issue. In the last two years, hospitals report occupancy rates of more than 90 percent, and long waits for elective procedures are common. This occurs though the average hospital stay has gone down. Also, because New York State has one-third fewer nursing home beds per 1,000 of the elderly than the rest of the country, finding an empty nursing-home bed is as rare as finding a clean subway car.
Given the higher cost of institutional care and crowded conditions in hospitals, it is no wonder that there has been a 30 percent increase in the number of homebound patients requiring 24-hour care.
You expose abuses in the system, and these need to be corrected. But they are a small part of the story. The real story is the tens of thousands of New Yorkers who are dependent on, and are well served by home-care services.
 
MEGAN E. MC LAUGHLIN
Executive Director, Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies
New York, April 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (84%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (84%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (84%); MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICAID LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1992



483 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: SANCTIONS ON LIBYA BEGIN TO TAKE HOLD AS DEADLINE PASSES

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Wednesday, April 15

 BODY:
Air transport links with Libya were cut, and United Nations sanctions took effect today against Libya for its refusal to hand over two of its citizens accused of blowing up a Pan Am airliner in 1988.
The banning of all flights is the most dramatic part of a United Nations sanctions package that also prohibits the sale of arms, aircraft and spare parts while requiring overseas offices of Libya's national airline to close. The Security Council's action requires all countries to reduce the size of Libyan embassies and restrict the movements of Libyan diplomats. 
 The sanctions are the first such punitive attempt to isolate a nation from the rest of the world. Their imposition came Tuesday, at the end of a day in which the World Court rejected a Libyan appeal to declare the restrictions invalid.
 
Effects Still Unknown
 It is not clear what impact the cut in air links will have. Egyptian, Tunisian and Maltese entrepreneurs are setting up alternative means of travel, including new bus and air routes, that meet the letter if not the spirit of the embargo. [Page A6.]
Tuesday, in an act of protest, Libya cut itself off from the outside world as it observed a day of mourning for victims of the 1986 United States bombing raid. That raid came in retaliation for what Washington called Libya's involvement in the destruction of a Berlin nightclub used by American servicemen. Among the 37 Libyans killed in the raids was the adopted daughter of Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
All telephone, telegraph and postal communications were cut and travel to and from the country by air, land and sea was halted for 24 hours, so there was no official Libyan reaction to the World Court ruling or the sanctions. But just hours before Libya shut itself down, Colonel Qaddafi's chief lieutenant, Abdul-Salam Jalloud, vowed that it "will never give up its sons" and urged Arabs to ignore the sanctions.
 
Defiance From Libya
 He told a convention of Arab labor leaders, "Libya cannot be humiliated and its dignity and sovereignty cannot be violated."
[ Reuters reported from Tripoli that when the 24-hour self-imposed isolation ended, hundreds of Libyan citizens took to the streets, chanting anti-Western slogans including, "We are ready for confrontation" and "We don't fear the United States."]
Under the terms of the Security Council action, the sanctions cannot be lifted until Libya takes "concrete actions" to show that it has renounced terrorism beyond handing over suspects in two air disasters. Libya has refused to turn over to Britain or the United States two men suspected in the explosion of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in which 270 people were killed, and has refused to send four other Libyans to France for questioning in connection with the downing of a French airliner over West Africa in 1989, with the loss of 171 lives.
In moving against Libya, the Council balked at banning the sale of oil, on which Libya's economy depends, after major European customers including Italy, Germany and Spain said they could not easily change suppliers.
A last-minute bid by Morocco, the only Arab country on the Security Council, to postpone sanctions to allow the Arab League to negotiate a compromise with Libya was rejected by the Council Tuesday afternoon, just hours before the deadline of midnight New York time, or 6 A.M. in Tripoli. Britain's representative, Sir David Hannay, said the Council "did not agree that a case had been made for delay."
 
Compliance Not Expected
 France's representative, Jean-Bernard Merimee, said: "Libya has practically ignored the Council. Maybe they did not realize the Council meant business, but we did."
He added, "There have been many negotiations, and these efforts have not been met by equal good will."
Libya also offered a last-minute compromise, saying it was ready to hand over the two suspects for trial by a court on the Mediterranean island of Malta, with whose Government Libya has good relations. But the United States and Britain rejected the idea.
"It falls short," the State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler, said Tuesday in Washington. "It does not meet the requirements of compliance. And Libya knows very well what it has to do in order to meet compliance."
 
Arab League Attempts
 Since the Security Council moved against Libya in January, the Arab League has been trying to negotiate a compromise under which Libya would surrender the suspects to the United Nations or some other third party. Diplomats have said that they assume Libya does not want the two tried in a Western country because the suspects might defend themselves by implicating other more senior Government officials in the bombings.
Although the Security Council voted unanimously to order Libya to hand over the two suspects in the Pan Am bombing and to cooperate with the French investigation, the move to impose sanctions has divided Council members, with China, Morocco, India, Cape Verde and Zimbabwe abstaining in the vote.
Nevertheless, China was not prepared to put its relations with the United States, Britain and France at risk by exercising its veto as a permanent Security Council member. And none of the other opponents of sanctions went so far as to cast a negative vote.
Meanwhile, the United States, Britain and France stepped up their pressure on President Saddam Hussein Tuesday, warning him that their warplanes will start attacking anti-aircraft missile batteries he recently moved into northern Iraq unless they are withdrawn immediately and Iraq stops tracking allied air patrols on radar.
They also told Baghdad to lift the economic blockade it has been imposing on the northern Kurds since last October and stop shelling Kurdish strongholds as well as dissident Shiite groups hiding out in the vast marshlands of southern Iraq near the Iranian border.
In its earlier effort to head off sanctions, Libya appealed to the International Court of Justice in the Hague for an injunction against the United States and Britain to prevent any action to compel it to surrender the accused to foreign courts.
But the Court's 16 judges voted 11 to 5 on Tuesday to reject Libya's application.
Libya had argued that American and British pressure to surrender the two suspects violated the 1971 Montreal Convention on air safety to which these countries belong. But the Court said that the Security Council's orders override provisions of that convention.
The judges appointed by the United States, Britain, France, Russia, China, Japan, Poland, Italy, Norway, Guyana and Venezuela all voted to reject Libya's appeal, while those from Algeria, Sri Lanka, Madagascar, Nigeria and Libya itself voted in favor of the application.
The Bush Administration welcomed the verdict, which may also help make the sanctions slightly more palatable to Council's Arab and third world members, most of whom abstained in a critical vote earlier this year.
President Bush, in Detroit Tuesday, called the verdict "good news."
 In fact, Libyan residents will still be able to leave the country relatively easily by driving to neighboring Egypt and Tunis and picking up flights there. Egypt plans to allow Libyans to drive to the airport at the beach resort of Sidi Barrani 45 miles from the Libyan border and fly from there to Cairo International Airport. A regular ferry service also links Libya with Malta.
At Tripoli airport on Monday hundreds of foreigners lined up at counters for flights to Malta and Germany, the only destinations available. About 1,000 Americans and 10,000 Europeans now work in Libya, most of them in jobs connected with its oil industry. The airport in Tripoli reopened Tuesday evening but no international flights landed during the night.
The United States has already cut its air links with Libya. But Alitalia, Lufthansa and British Airways all fly to Tripoli from Europe. Lufthansa said it stopped issuing tickets for Libya to passengers in New York in 1989 requiring them to buy their tickets in Canada or Europe. Alitalia's New York office said Tuesday night it had received no instructions to stop issuing tickets for Tripoli.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PN (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SCOTLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALTA (70%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (85%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA; SCOTLAND; GREAT BRITAIN ; MALTA; ITALY; GERMANY LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SCOTLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MALTA (70%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMS SALES ABROAD; EXTRADITION EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); TERRORISM (87%); EXTRADITION (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); 

PERSON: ;LEWIS, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



484 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Union Agrees To End Strike At Caterpillar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., April 14

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers union unexpectedly agreed tonight to end a five-month-old strike against Caterpillar Inc. that had left more than 12,000 workers walking the picket lines.
The accord was widely seen as a setback for the union, which until Monday had characterized the company's offer as a "mean-spirited proposal." 
 Caterpillar, the world's largest manufacturer of construction equipment, agreed to end its efforts to hire replacement workers, and the union agreed to urge its members to return to their jobs.
 
Talks to Continue
 In a crucial provision that was recommended by a Federal mediator, both sides agreed that the employees would work under the terms of the contract proposed by Caterpillar and that negotiations for a new contract would go on.
The talks will continue to be conducted under the auspices of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, which had brought the company and the union together for talks that began Monday in Hinsdale, Ill.
The agreement today is a milestone in a labor dispute that has commanded wide attention. The company's threat to replace the 12,600 striking U.A.W. members permanently if they failed to report to work by April 6 was widely seen as a new stage in the attack on unions by corporations. Never before had an industrial giant like Caterpillar tried to permanently replace thousands of union workers.
Caterpillar has offered a contract that will raise the salary of top workers to $39,000 in 1994 from the current $35,000. But the union is seeking the same top wage of $40,000 that will be paid workers at Deere & Company in 1994. In this the U.A.W. is practicing pattern bargaining, in which unions negotiate similar contracts with a number of companies within the same industry.
But Caterpillar is trying to break away from the practice, saying it cannot afford to keep matching Deere's wages because it would render the company less competitive globally.
 
Pressures on Both Sides
 Caterpillar makes 75 percent of its products in the United States and exports 59 percent of them, making it second only to The Boeing Company among industrial exporters.
The agreement was reached because it was widely believed that union leaders sensed an erosion in the resolve of their members to continue walking the picket line. Indeed, many striking workers here and at other Caterpillar plants had planned to cross the picket line if an agreement was not reached within about a week.
On the other hand, Caterpillar management had also begun to feel intense pressure. Industry analysts insisted that the company's inventories had reached perilously low levels and that the company was beginning to fill orders with production from its plants in Europe and Japan.
Many union members here were dismayed by the prospect of working under a contract that their leaders had rejected only a day before.
"I think it's going to create a lot of bad feelings," said Donald Carter, a 45-year-old machine operator who has worked at Caterpillar for 17 years. "These guys have been walking the picket line for months and they're going back for what's been on the table all the time."
 
Working Again, but When?
 Despite tonight's agreement, there were several points of confusion, primarily on when the workers would be expected to return to their jobs. At first, the U.A.W.'s secretary-treasurer, Bill Casstevens, said the union would urge all strikers to return to their jobs "immediately at their next regular shift."
Caterpillar executives later said they needed time to assess how quickly they could bring the workers back, since several manufacturing procedures had been modified during the strike. The company repeated that it was considering reducing its work force by 10 percent to 15 percent and said it would mail letters to workers informing them of when they would be expected to return.
For its part, the union said it retained the right to walk out again if negotiations fail to produce a satisfactory contract. Mr. Casstevens emphasized that the union was still seeking to reach an agreement that it considered more generous than the package offered by Caterpillar.
Mr. Casstevens denied that the agreement was a setback, saying: "There are no replacement workers that will be hired. We're not going to be negotiating on the company's last offer. We're going to negotiate on our own offer."
 
Triumph for Mediator
 The agreement represents a triumph for Bernard E. DeLury, director of the Federal agency that mediated the dispute. Mr. DeLury personally interceded to bring the two sides together, saying it was important to have such an important union and major manufacturer together and avoid a showdown.
"I feel good about it," Mr. DeLury said after the meeting. "It feels good when you can get 12,000 men and women back to work." He said that he would call another round of meetings to negotiate a new contract some time next week.
"They both need some time to let the dust settle a bit," Mr. DeLury said. "We'll take it step by step."
The strike, which began after the union rejected what Caterpillar called its last offer, has drawn nationwide attention because of the company's threat to replace the strikers permanently. If that threat had been carried out, the U.A.W.'s bargaining positions in negotiations next year with General Motors, Ford and Chrysler could have weakened.
Caterpillar began testing applicants yesterday for the strikers' jobs at an office on the northern outskirts of Peoria, several miles from where strikers were picketing.
While strikers had felt the strain of the labor dispute, the company was also apparently in a predicament. John A. Stark, editor of Stark's Off-Highway Ledger, a newsletter of the construction machinery industry, said Caterpillar's inventories were running low. "Their inventory window has become so narrow that they've had to shift some of their production to Caterpillar plants in Japan and Europe," Mr. Stark said. The company had declined to comment on either inventories or its production levels.
Mr. Stark said Caterpillar was eager to resume full production to take advantage of the expected pick up in the American economy and higher demand for construction machinery that is anticipated for the rest of this year. "History has shown that the most profitable period for a machinery company is in the early stages of an upturn," he said, "because customers have so much pent-up demand that they are eager to fill."
Some labor and management experts called tonight's agreement a standoff.
"The union was under tremendous pressure because more and more of the rank and file were thinking about crossing the picket lines and going back to work," said Edward L. Sattler, an economics professor at Bradley University here. "This agreement will quiet the discontent of the work force and give union leaders a chance to buy some time. It's a face-saving agreement for both sides."
 
'We're Pleased'
 At Caterpillar's headquarters downtown, Gerald S. Flaherty, a company group president, said: "We're pleased that our employees are coming back to work under an offer that is fair and will allow Caterpillar to remain globally competitive." He said the agreement was "good for our employees, good for Caterpillar and good for the communities in which we live and work."
While Caterpillar has agreed to end its efforts to hire replacement workers, the company emphasized that it will continue to honor its commitment to test and interview various applicants who have already been scheduled for interviews. Mr. Flaherty said the company expected to notify workers within the next few days when they should return.
"We need to evaluate what our work force needs are," said Gilbert Nolde, a Caterpillar spokesman. "This has caught us by surprise, too."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (95%); CATR (PAR) (95%); CAT (SWX) (95%); CAT (NYSE) (95%); DE (NYSE) (81%); BOE (LSE) (63%); BAB (BRU) (63%); BA (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (81%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC; DEERE & CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); BOEING CO; FEDERAL MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION SERVICE CATERPILLAR INC (95%); DEERE & CO (81%); BOEING CO (63%); FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (83%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC; DEERE & CO; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); BOEING CO; FEDERAL MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION SERVICE FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (83%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT; STRIKES; LABOR; CONTRACTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P BILL CASSTEVENS (58%); BERNARD E DELURY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



485 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Yonkers Council Approves Plan to Integrate Housing
Clearing the way for an end to 12 years of legal and emotional turmoil, Yonkers City Council members approved a landmark agreement to desegregate housing. Page B1.
 
A Familiar-Sounding Bush
 Casting about for ways to show a mastery of issues, the President has been repeating policy announcements over and over again. Page A25.
 
Clean-Air Breakthrough
 California and the Ford Motor Company unveiled two models acclaimed as the cleanest-running mass-production cars in history. Page A16.
 
Fallout From Chicago's Flood
 With a flood still besieging the Loop, Mayor Richard M. Daley dismissed his public works chief. Page D27.
 
Dow Passes 3,300 Mark
 Cheered by stronger earnings and lower interest rates, blue-chip stocks rose 36.23, to 3,306.13. Page D1.
 
U. of Chicago Chief Retiring
 Hanna H. Gray said she would relinquish the presidency of the University of Chicago next year. Page B11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (88%); APPROVALS (88%); MAYORS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: RICHARD M DALEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



486 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: CABINET IN RUSSIA WON'T STEP DOWN

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 14

 BODY:
The Government of President Boris N. Yeltsin and the Russian Parliament drew back today from a conflict that had threatened Mr. Yeltsin's program of economic reform.
The confrontation, watched anxiously by the West, was tentatively defused when the Congress of People's Deputies adopted "in principle" a declaration of support for economic reform. The compromise measure, prepared by Government officials and congressional leaders, effectively neutralized the most contentious provisions of a resolution the Congress of deputies adopted on Saturday.
 
Brady Sees 'Steps Backward'
 That resolution had prompted Deputy Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, the chief architect of the Government's radical reform program, to lead the Cabinet in offering its collective resignation. In a statement made public on Monday, the ministers declared that the Congress's decision would inevitably lead to "a catastrophic decline in living standards, famine, social upheavals and chaos." 
 Gennadi Burbulis, Mr. Yeltsin's chief lieutenant, told reporters today that the new Congress declaration "eliminates the need for our resignation."
The struggle raised anxieties both inside and outside Russia. Western Governments watched carefully to see whether the conflict would unseat the economic reforms that are a prerequisite for billions of dollars in aid proposed by the West.
Visiting Moscow, the United States Secretary of the Treasury, Nicholas F. Brady, told reporters he had warned the Russians "that changes in the economic program by the Congress were steps backward, not forward."
If the economic program emerged largely in place, he added, the United States would still have the "confidence" to proceed with the aid.
Initial efforts to defuse the conflict failed on Monday when the Speaker of the Parliament, Ruslan Khasbulatov, issued a string of patronizing gibes that prompted the ministers to walk out.
The proceedings today opened with another brief clash as deputies backing the Government moved unsuccessfully to censure Mr. Khasbulatov. But efforts to calm the mood were evident from the outset, when Deputy Speaker Sergei Filatov took the chair instead of Mr. Khasbulatov.
The brief compromise declaration essentially took the steam out of Saturday's resolution without forcing the Congress to reverse its vote. It affirmed the legislature's support for Mr. Yeltsin's course of economic reform, and it said the Government should carry out the instructions of the Congress "taking into account real economic and social conditions."
That effectively leaves it to the Government to decide which measures it will adopt.
 
Yeltsin Stays Away
 The compromise also lifted an order to Mr. Yeltsin, who is his own Prime Minister, to propose a new premier within three months.
Mr. Yeltsin was once again absent from the Congress. He has not attended since the confrontation first began to take shape on Saturday, although he met this morning with his Cabinet. Rumors abounded that he would make an address, but as the compromise gained strength it appeared he preferred to maintain a statesmanlike distance.
Mr. Gaidar rose to speak in support of the resolution. He told deputies: "On the whole, I think this document would allow the executive branch to carry out further reforms."
But he also used the podium to swipe back at Mr. Khasbulatov's comments of the day before, when the Speaker had dismissed the Cabinet ministers as a bunch of disoriented youths.
"This is not a Government of capricious boys and girls," he said. "We are ready to work, but we need to have free hands and an honest economic policy."
Efforts to adopt the resolution directly, however, were voted down, and it was approved "in principle" -- meaning that the Congress could still vote amendments on Wednesday.
The resolution passed Saturday upset the Cabinet because it called for social and industrial spending that would work against the Government's stringent austerity program. The Congress, for example, asked for action to prop up declining industries, lower taxes and increase wages.
Mr. Gaidar's program has centered on restricting the money supply while letting prices rise in order to strengthen the ruble and prod market forces.
 
St. Petersburg Walkout
 The 1,024-member Congress is also plodding through a revised constitution article by article, and a battle over balance of powers is already being joined.
Even without Mr. Khasbulatov, tempers flared. One bizarre conflict erupted over a routine proposal to amend articles of the Constitution to read "St. Petersburg" instead of "Leningrad," reflecting the changed name of the city.
The change failed twice to muster the required two-thirds vote.
That roused the St. Petersburg delegates to stomp out in protest, declaring that they would not take part in the Congress until the name of their city was recognized.
Eventually the amendment passed, and the St. Petersburg legislators took their seats.
The struggle also spread beyond the Kremlin. Loud clutches of demonstrators gathered on opposite sides of St. Basil's Cathedral on Red Square, one group waving Russian flags and denouncing the Parliament, the other waving red Soviet flags and denouncing Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Gaidar.
The sides confirmed that the struggle is not only between a recalcitrant Legislature and an activist Government, but between the broad forces advocating change and those bemoaning the past.
Mr. Yeltsin, for his part, has his popularity in reserve. Since Saturday, he has remained above the fray and let his lieutenants and ministers battle it out. But there is little doubt in the corridors of the Kremlin that he would tap his considerable authority and popularity if that became necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); SCHMEMANN, SERGE BORIS N YELTSIN (91%); RUSLAN KHASBULATOV (78%); YEGOR T GAIDAR (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



487 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Tuition Plan: A Big Jump in Cost But a Free Semester

BYLINE: By SAMUEL WEISS

 BODY:
The City University of New York is planning a major tuition increase next fall, but the rise is accompanied by a promise that if freshmen make it to their senior year they may attend their last semester before graduation free.
Educators say they believe the plan is the first of its kind in the nation and praised it as an innovative approach to the problems of retaining students and managing the rising cost of obtaining a college degree. 
 Faced with state budget cuts that would translate into an across-the-board tuition increase of $500 a year in the next school year, City University officials are proposing instead to assess the increase most heavily on freshmen. The university's chancellor, Dr. W. Ann Reynolds, has recommended that their annual tuition rise by $600 in the fall, to $2,450.
 
Internal Scholarship Fund
 That freshman class, which faces a 32 percent tuition increase at the system's 11 four-year colleges, would be the first to benefit from the university's plan to offer the last semester of instruction free. The tuition of upperclassmen and transfer students next year would rise by $350 a year, or 19 percent, to $2,200. In succeeding years, students who paid the higher tuition as freshmen would continue to pay it as sophomores, juniors and seniors, until all City University students paid that amount.
By the time they graduated, all students would have paid more than they do now, but less than they would have if the $500 tuition increase had been assessed across the board. Of course, the calculation does not take into account potential inflation or future tuition increases.
Educators said CUNY's plan effectively represented an internal scholarship fund -- or enforced savings plan -- to encourage the university's students, largely from working-class backgrounds, to finish their education.
City University officials said that more than 40 percent of baccalaureate candidates eventually get a degree, but that it takes many of them more than the customary four years to graduate. Because almost 60 percent of CUNY students never graduate, attrition would keep the number of free semesters much lower than the number of students in that year's freshman class.
The $600 increase would be the largest since the university began charging its students in 1976. But the free semester would recall the university's once-cherished policy of free tuition. The free semester portion of the plan would begin in 1996, 20 years after the university's 129-year-old policy of not charging tuition came to an end amid New York City's fiscal crisis.
Educators said yesterday that although a large number of schools have recently focused on keeping students, they had never heard of a university offering such a financial incentive for students to complete their degrees.
 
'It's a Novel Idea'
 "I think it's unique and unprecedented," said Dr. Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and a former United States Commissioner of Education. "And at first glance, I think it's something very intriguing."
Dr. C. Peter McGrath, president of the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges, concurred. "It's a novel idea and I think its marvelous," he said, noting that it should help students persevere in their studies.
The proposal was approved on Monday by the university's fiscal affairs committee. University officials said yesterday the plan is expected to be approved by the university's full board of trustees when it meets on April 27.
CUNY officials said the graduation incentive would apply only to students completing bachelor's degrees at one of the university's 11 four-year colleges and not to students who earn associate degrees at its seven two-year community colleges. Students could take as long as they wanted to graduate, but they would be eligible for the incentive only once. If they did not graduate during the semester in which they were enrolled to complete their final credits toward their degree, they would have to resume paying tuition in following semesters.
Tuition at CUNY, with 200,000 students the nation's third-largest university system after the State University of New York and the California State University system, has risen by almost 50 percent in the last two years, resulting in widespread student protests and campus disruptions. Dr. Reynolds said that by keeping the tuition of students already enrolled lower than that of freshmen, she sought to "cushion" the blow of another tuition increase.
At the State University of New York, which, like CUNY, has a tradition of charging relatively inexpensively, tuition is $2,150 a year. SUNY also faces a tuition increase that would translate into $500 a year across the board but has not announced how it will address it.
The major participants in discussions on the plan were Lawrence F. Mucciolo, the university's deputy chancellor; Richard F. Rothbard, vice chancellor for budget, finance and computing, and Jay Hershenson, vice chancellor for university relations.
Although any tuition increase must be approved by the Governor and the Legislature, it is up to the university's trustees to impose one and to decide upon the amount.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Tuition: The Cost of Attending CUNY" -- The City University of New York, which was established in 1847, did not charge tuition until 1976. Since then, tuition at CUNY's 20 senior and community colleges has more than doubled. For the 1992 academic year, CUNY's chancellor, W. Ann Reynolds, has proposed tuition increases of $300 a semester for freshmen and $175 for sophomores, juniors and seniors. Here is a history of fees per semester, and the percent change from the previous increase. SUNY tuition is the annual cost for New York state residents.

 	 	 	 	 	 			 	 	 	 	Senior		 	 	 	Community	SUNY	 	 	 			 	 	 	 	 *2Colleges		 	 	 	 	Colleges	(per year)	 	 	 		Tuition	Increase	 	 	 	Tuition	Increase	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	'76	$462.50		$387.50		N.A.	'79	462.50	0.0%	462.50	19.4%	N.A.	'82	537.50	16.2%	537.50	16.2%	$1,050,00	'83	612.50	14.0%	612.50	14.0%	1,350.00	'84	625.00	2.0%	612.50	0.0%	1,350.00	'91*	725.00	16.0%	725.00	18.4%	2,150.00	'91**	925.00	27.6%	875.00	20.7%	2,150.00	'92+	1,100.00	18.9%	1,050.00	20.0%	N.A.	
 
*Increase for spring semester.
**Increase for fall semester.
+$1,225 for freshmen, a 32% increase from 1991.
 
(Source: City University of New York) (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (96%); STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TUITION TUITION FEES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (56%); 

PERSON: WEISS, SAMUEL

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



488 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Peru and U.S.: What Course to Take?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
While America's firm stand in support of the restoration of democracy in Peru may be laudable, is it practical?
Does it make sense to tell an impoverished country whose courts are widely believed to have been corrupted by drug traffickers and whose capital is under attack from vicious Maoist guerrillas that the only way out of its problems is to restore the democracy that existed before the Government crackdown -- even though its democratic institutions were not working and their removal had the support of 70 percent of the people? 
 There is much sympathy, even respect, among Latin American diplomats for the Bush Administration's immediate demand that the Peruvian President, Alberto Fujimori, restore his country's banned Congress, courts and Constitution, which Mr. Fujimori said he suspended in order to reform them by fiat. Few doubt that the United States should be seen as standing for the values of freedom and democracy in the world, and had the Administration done anything less it would have been denounced by both Congress and commentators.
But the Administration's action is also a bit confusing, because something is missing -- something it has never had to provide before: an explanation of why a restoration of a popular democracy under siege will not simply lead to a restoration of the impossible status quo. The Administration seems to be long on principles for Peru, but short on a clear-cut strategy that Peruvians might adopt to confront their crisis.
 
A Wider Problem for U.S.
 This is part of a wider problem faced by the Administration as more and more nations adopt democratic systems. In the case of Algeria and the former Soviet republic of Georgia, the question Washington faced was how to deal with democratically elected authoritarians. In Peru, the issue is even more complex: how should the United States deal with a democratically elected democrat who has popular support for temporarily using anti-democratic means to bring order to his country?
Addressing a meeting of the Organization of American States on Monday, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d declared: "All of us recognize that democracy can be inefficient, all of us recognize that democracy can be slow, and all of us recognize that democracy can be frustrating. But there is no alternative."
That may be true, but when the Peruvian Government is facing a guerrilla organization that many have compared to the Khmer Rouge of Cambodia, such arguments, no matter how valid, are not so easy to digest. That explains why Mr. Fujimori has received such support for his actions from the Peruvian people. They seem to believe that the restoration of constitutional democracy may be a necessary condition for re-establishing order, but is not sufficient.
 
Problems to Be Faced
 There are many problems in Peru and unless they are confronted with a comprehensive strategy, the country will fail, said Robert A. Pastor, Latin American expert at Emory University. "I agree with Baker, you cannot address the problems of the Shining Path guerrillas, the drugs and the corruption, unless you have domestic and international legitimacy. But simply restoring the democratic status quo ante will not work because it was not working before."
The American strategy has stressed why Mr. Fujimori will fail if he does not restore democracy, but it has not indicated clearly enough how he could succeed if he does, and what if anything the United States, Japan and the Organization of American States would do to make sure he succeeds this time around.
Privately, Administration officials say Mr. Fujimori should have called for a national referendum or plebiscite to give him special powers, or organized a special constitutional assembly to push through the reforms he wanted. He clearly has the popular support, officials argue, so why not use it in a constitutional manner that would not have jeopardized his international aid and backing?
 
Answers From Washington
 Beyond that, when State Department officials are asked what if anything Washington would be prepared to do to help insure that a restoration of democracy in Peru would not lead to a restoration of the status quo, they answer by pointing to the various aid programs that were in the works. The programs, they argue, could help lead Peru out of crisis if they are combined with democratically approved reforms by Mr. Fujimori.
Those arguments sound similar to ones used by Administration officials months ago, when asked why they were not doing more to aid the former Soviet Union. They would point to the long list of things they were doing, even while acknowledging privately that they knew their actions were not sufficient. Indeed, American officials dealing with Latin America often sound these days like their European affairs counterparts, worrying aloud that neither Congress nor the upper reaches of the Administration are ready to focus on the tremendous problems of Latin America in this election year.
"The historic mistake of the United States in Latin America is to be preoccupied elsewhere and to disengage and neglect the hemisphere at a time of great opportunity, great danger or both," said a senior Administration Latin affairs expert. "One of the dangers of our current national mood is that we are going to repeat that mistake."
 
State Dept. Aide in Lima
 When the State Department spokeswoman, Margaret D. Tutwiler, was asked today at a briefing what exactly the Administration would do to make sure that the restoration of democracy in Peru does not restore the status quo, she began by saying that the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, Bernard Aronson, was in Lima on the eve of the suspension of democracy "with an entire interagency team to discuss things to do to help the Peruvian people in the economic field, I believe in the counternarcotics field, and a whole basket of things."
His visit, though "was aborted, when this happened," said Miss Tutwiler of Mr. Fujimori's suspension of democracy, "so I would not characterize it as we are saying return to the status quo."
She added: "We are now in the third year of a $3.4 million program to help Peru reform its judicial system. We have another $5 million budgeted for judicial and police reform over the next five years and a $500,000 program which has already trained judges and police officers in Peru. We are prepared to assist in other ways."
Saying that the United States is prepared, after the resumption of democracy, to resume substantial economic and security assistance for Peru, totaling some $260 million for fiscal 1992, Miss Tutwiler concluded: "We do not think that the status quo works either; quite the opposite. Our quarrel is not over the need for reform in Peru. It is over the way that President Fujimori has decided to carry it out. When Colombia carried out its far-reaching constitutional reforms, they began with a national referendum, not by arresting members of Parliament, judicial officials and journalists."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GEORGIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) SHINING PATH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;SHINING PATH (GUERRILLA ORGN) SHINING PATH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); GEORGIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERU-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COURTS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (79%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



489 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Ford Unveils Cleanest-Running Cars for California

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EL MONTE, Calif., April 14

 BODY:
California state smog officials and the Ford Motor Company unveiled two new automobile models today that they said were the cleanest-running cars ever approved for mass production in the world.
They were updated versions of the Ford Escort and the Mercury Tracer, engineered to meet pollutant emission standards California has set for 1997 models, four years ahead of schedule. The new cars are to go on sale at Ford dealers in California starting May 21, when the 1993 models are introduced. 
 Leaders of the state's powerful Air Resources Board said the introduction of the cars vindicated their controversial act of September 1990, when they adopted a demanding timetable for manufacturers to begin introducing ultra-clean vehicles if they wanted to continue selling in the huge California automobile market.
The cars will sell for the same price as regular models sold in other states, though the cost to Ford will be $100 more for each vehicle. They will get one mile per gallon less in fuel efficiency and produce about half the noxious emissions permitted under current California standards, which are the strictest in the nation.
 
Stretching Current Technology
 The Ford vehicles are the first certified by the state under that plan, which was an attempt to force new smog-control technologies by establishing a four-step timetable for introduction of progressively cleaner-running cars from 1997 until 2003, leading ultimately to mass produced zero-emission electric cars.
The models will not immediately be available outside California, which has the worst smog problems in the country. Three Northeastern states, New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts, have adopted the California emission standards, but on a slower timetable. Six other Northeastern states, including New Jersey, as well as Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia, are considering adopting it.
"Today's car shows that these goals are definitely within reach," said Jananne Sharpless, chairwoman of the Air Resources Board.
Tests showed the new Ford cars emitted smog-producing hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides at half or less of the current California standards for the 1993 model year, which are already the strictest in the nation.
Based on past sales, Ford expects to sell about 30,000 of the Escorts, whose base price is $8,802, and 4,000 of the Tracers, whose base price is $10,530. That would represent 3.4 percent of the million-plus passenger vehicles sold each year in California.
Today's announcement involved no major advance in pollution technology. Rather, according to Donald R. Buist, director of Ford's automotive emissions and fuel economy office, the company stretched existing catalytic converter technology to new limits as an interim measure while it develops alternative fuel, electric and other new propulsion systems.
The other major American and foreign auto makers are all developing new vehicles to meet the California rules, which will require 25 percent of all cars sold by each maker to conform to the new ultra-clean emission levels starting in 1997.
By the year 2003, 100 percent of vehicles would have to meet the levels, and 10 percent must have zero emissions.
Ford spokesmen said they did not plan to sell the new models in other states because the air is not as dirty elsewhere and they did not want to saddle buyers with the additional cost.
The Ford cars use conventional unleaded gasoline in a 1.9-liter internal combustion engine. The additional pollution controls were obtained mainly by enlarging the catalytic converter and moving it closer to the engine. The converter is filled with semi-precious metals that serve as catalysts to convert unburned hydrocarbons into water, carbon monoxide into carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides into nitrogen and oxygen. Ford said it had used more of these metals than normal to raise the efficiency of the converter.
 
Increase in Efficiency
 In addition, the company said the engine was designed to use fuel more efficiently and the converter was altered to reach optimum temperature more quickly. About 95 percent of all noxious automobile emissions are created during the first few minutes after starting the car before the engine and converter are operating fully.
Current California standards limit emissions to .25 grams per mile of hydrocarbons, .4 grams for nitrogen oxide and 3.4 grams for carbon monoxide. In tests, the new Ford cars performed at .062 grams of hydrocarbons, .2 grams of nitrogen oxide and 1.3 grams of carbon monoxide. This met the 1997 standard of .075 grams, .2 grams and 1.7 grams, respectively. In addition, the cars are the first to meet California's strict new durability rules, which require that anti-smog systems continue to meet emission standards for 100,000 miles of driving, double the previous rule.
Under the plan approved by the Air Resources Board in 1990, low-emission vehicles, or LEV's, must be gradually introduced beginning in 1997, increasing to 96 percent of all cars sold by the year 2000.
The board also expects a new generation of clean-running cars, called ULEV's, or ultra low-emission vehicles, to start to be introduced in 1997 in small numbers. The plan specifies that 2 percent of all new cars should be ULEV's in 1997, rising to 15 percent in 2003. The final stage will begin with the introduction of ZEV's, or zero-emission vehicles, meaning electric cars. Makers must start to introduce them in 1998 and raise the proportion to 10 percent by 2003.
Except for electric cars, the board has not specified the type of technology to be used.
Manufacturers can use any combination of new emission controls, engine designs and fuel types to attain the required emission levels.
When the plan was imposed in 1990, many automobile experts said it was based on unrealistic expectations about new technology. Today air board staff members said, if anything, the standards may have been too lenient inasmuch as Ford met the initial requirements four years early.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; AUTOMOBILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HYDROCARBONS; CARBON MONOXIDE ; NITROGEN OXIDE; PRICES NEW CAR MODELS (92%); SMOG (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); CARBON MONOXIDE (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



490 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Banc One Set to Acquire Valley National for Stock

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Banc One Corporation said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire the Valley National Corporation, Arizona's largest banking company, in a $1.2 billion exchange of stock.
For the acquisition-minded Banc One, where buying other banks is a line of business and crucial to growth, the purchase of Valley extends its reach into a state where prospects for economic growth are brighter than the company's home base in Ohio. 
 Like Texas, which Banc One entered two years ago when it acquired a group of failed banks, Arizona has a rapid population growth that makes it an attractive market for Banc One, which concentrates on consumers and small businesses.
Valley National, whose lineage goes back to 1883, was the only large Arizona bank not owned by an out-of-state company. The alliance with Banc One is a chance to cast its lot with a stronger company that promised to keep current management. Also, Banc One was able to offer a price that few other banking companies could match.
Valley National's stock surged after the announcement yesterday morning, rising $11.75 in over-the-counter trading to close at $49.75. Banc One, which will exchange 1.2 shares of its stock for each share of Valley, fell $1.50 on the New York Stock Exchange to close at $45.625.
Based on Valley's closing price, Valley is being bought at twice book value under the share swap, although the pooling of interests accounting rules being used will permit Banc One to make it appear it bought Valley for less than book value. [Market Place, page D8.]
Richard J. Lehmann, Valley's 47-year-old chairman, who came to the company in 1988 after 17 years at Citicorp, said he had sought a merger because Valley lacked the financial strength to expand. Last summer Mr. Lehmann approached Banc One and described Valley's efforts to solve its problems -- it had a $149 million loss in 1989, which was attributed to problem real estate loans, and profits of only $8 million in 1990.
"We had some talks," John B. McCoy, Banc One's chairman, said, "but we did not want to take the risk that they could not turn around the bank." A month ago Mr. Lehmann called again, Mr. McCoy said, "and he showed that they had done better than their plan."
The next step was for Banc One to send a 40-member team to study Valley's loans last week, and verify that problems with its real estate loans were declining. The two companies agreed on a price with no bidding war between Banc One and other suitors.
Analysts at the First Boston Corporation issued a report yesterday calling the Valley acquisition a harbinger of another wave of bank acquisitions involving strong regional banks with dominant market shares.
Mr. McCoy cited Arizona's relatively strong growth prospects, and added that loan demand, particularly among consumers, was strong enough that Valley could continue using Arizona deposits for Arizona loans without tapping other parts of Banc One's existing eight-state network.
 
A Fast-Growing State
 Lynn Reaser, chief economist at the First Interstate Bancorporation, a California banking company that owns Arizona's third-largest bank, said, "The overall economy in Arizona is picking up this year, and the state is adding population and jobs much more rapidly than the rest of the country."
Mr. McCoy, after 107 acquisitions and two decades of rising profits that have made Banc One one of Wall Street's favorite bank stocks, said he was confident that Valley would become more profitable under the Banc One umbrella. Within three to five years he predicted that Valley's profits would rise from 80 cents per $100 of assets to $1.25 -- a performance that would be banking's equivalent to .300 hitter in baseball -- and is about the average for Banc One's subsidiary banks.
Unlike many other bank mergers, Banc One does not envision closing branch ofices or laying off employees. The only significant cut at Valley will be its computer-intensive data processing operation, which keeps track of customer transactions and balances and produces monthly account statements. Within two years Valley's data processing will be shifted to a processing center in Ohio for an annual savings of $20 million or more.
 
Banker With a Good Reputation
 Although Valley has a reputation as a strong consumer bank -- Banc One tried a few years ago to hire Richard D. Snewajs, head of retail banking at Valley -- analysts expect there is enough room for improvement that Mr. McCoy's goals will be met.
"The people at Valley have been forced to spend so much time managing their bad credits that they may have lost some of their ability to focus on developing the best products and pricing strategies," said Moshe Ohrenbuch, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "That is an area where Banc One can help with its share-and-compare policy."
Share and compare refers to Banc One's practice of standardizing the products and accounting systems at its banking subsidiaries and encouraging its bankers to share the secrets of their successes and warn others of potential pitfalls.
By leaving each bank free to devise its own marketing strategies and prices, but requiring all banks to file monthly reports of their past results and forecasts, Bank One has found a way to leave local bankers with a sense of control, while the home office watches carefully enough to spot problems quickly.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Merger for Banc One" shows Bank One's recent growth; Valley National's net income or loss, and Banc One's assets and number of offices. (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VALLEY NATIONAL CORP; BANC ONE CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); VALLEY NATIONAL CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VALLEY NATIONAL CORP; BANC ONE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MERGERS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL JOHN B MCCOY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



491 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets
Blue-chip stocks vaulted to new highs, as traders reacted to upbeat earnings reports. The Dow climbed 36.23, to 3,306.13, its first close above 3,300. [Page D1.]
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in slow trading, as dealers were once again without a Treasury futures market. [D18.] 
 The prospect of renewed Iraqi oil sales set off wide selling of crude oil futures. [D19.] The dollar was flat. [D19.]
 
Companies
I.B.M. moved into the black with quarterly earnings of $595 million, or $1.04 a share, rebounding from a disastrous 1991. [D1.]
Banc One agreed to acquire Valley National, Arizona's largest banking company, in a $1.2 billion exchange of stock. [D1.]
The U.A.W. said it would end a strike against Caterpillar that has left more than 12,000 workers walking the picket lines. [A1.]
Union Carbide will sell its last holdings in India to raise as much as $17 million to build and operate a hospital in Bhopal. [D1.]
Merrill Lynch reported its biggest quarterly profit ever. Charles Schwab and Paine Webber posted big gains. [D5.]
Most remaining parts of Apple's copyright suit against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard were thrown out. [D5.]
American Home Products and Pfizer reported double-digit quarterly earnings gains. [D7.]
The New York Times Co. reported higher income, citing higher ad revenues in the newspaper and magazine groups. [D20.]
A chocolate a day keeps the dentist away -- that is the message of the Princeton Dental Resource Center (which happens to be financed by M&M/Mars). [A1.]
ARCO slashed its capital spending plans and said it expected sharply lower earnings. [D5.]
California smog officials and Ford Motor unveiled two new automobile models that they said were the cleanest-running cars ever approved for mass production. [A16.]
 
International
Olympia & York defaulted on an $800 million Eurobond issue secured by a tower in Manhattan's World Financial Center. [D1.]
Alan Bond was declared officially bankrupt after he failed to repay a $194 million debt. [D2.]
The U.S. plans to do more to help businesses invest in former Soviet republics, Commerce Secretary Franklin said. [D23.]
The Economy
Sales of North American-built vehicles rose just 3.8 percent in early April from a sluggish sales period a year earlier. [D6.]
Retail sales fell 0.4 percent in March, the Commerce Dept. said, after rising smartly the first two months of the year. [D6.]
The I.R.S. is focusing more attention these days on making it easier for people to comply with the tax laws voluntarily. [D23.]
 
Business Technology
Developing tools to sort through huge electronic libraries of pictures is the new challenge of computer researchers, now that they have refined the art of searching through megabytes of data for a single phrase. [D1.]
 
Today's Columns
Enthusiasm at American's move to simplify air fares may be tempered by the prospect of less competition and higher prices in the future. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Is Valley National really worth twice book value? It certainly seemed to be in the wake of Banc One's merger agreement. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
A costly anti-abortion campaign is causing advertising and media executives to re-examine fundamental issues involving advocacy ads. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); NYT (NYSE) (82%); FORDP (PAR) (59%); F (NYSE) (59%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); SCHW (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (59%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); APPLE INC (82%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (82%); FORD MOTOR CO (59%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); PFIZER INC (55%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (71%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (69%); NEW CAR MODELS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); EUROBONDS (61%); TAX LAW (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); COPYRIGHT (51%); 

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



492 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Incomes of Young Families Dip 32% in 17 Years, Study Finds

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
Young families with children have significantly less money than their counterparts did a generation ago and suffer from child poverty rates that are twice as high, the Children's Defense Fund said in a study issued today.
Incomes in those families have dropped by 32 percent, the study found, and the child poverty rate is now a sobering 40 percent. 
 The study attributed slightly more than half of the decline to demographic factors, including the sharp rise in single-parent families. But even if family composition had not changed, the study said, almost half of the decline would have occurred, a result of eroded wages and declining government payments for welfare and unemployment.
The trends were most discouraging for young black and Hispanic families, and for those with little education, the study found. But young white families and those headed by high school graduates also saw their incomes fall and their poverty levels rise.
 
'Broad and Pervasive Trends'
 "These are very broad and pervasive trends that are reaching virtually all kinds of families with young children," said Cliff Johnson, an analyst for the Children's Defense Fund who helped write the report.
Political partisans wage ferocious interpretative wars over trends like these, with liberals citing a decline in economic opportunity and conservatives pointing to behavioral changes like the rise in out-of-wedlock births. But the numbers in today's report were sufficiently grim that both sides agreed that, whatever the causes, they cast a troubling shadow over the nation's future.
Marian Wright Edelman, the defense fund's president, said the numbers presaged "more substance abuse, more crime, more violence, more school failure, more teen pregnancy, more racial tension, more envy, more despair and more cynicism -- a long-term economic and social disaster."
S. Anna Kondratas, an Assistant Secretary of Housing who is a staff member of the Bush Administration's main anti-poverty planning group, the Economic Empowerment Task Force, used different words to express similar fears. The entire nation will suffer, she said, as more children grow up with "low skills, the lack of ability to compete in society, the alienation from society."
The study, performed by the defense fund, a research and advocacy group on children's issues, and Northeastern University's Center for Labor Market Studies, analyzed data from the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey, an annual sample of about 60,000 households. While median incomes fell for both young and old families with children, the trend was most precipitous among young families.
About half of all American children are born into families headed by a parent under 30 years of age. The study found that incomes for such families fell 32.1 percent, to $18,844 in 1990 from $27,765 in 1973. Those figures are held constant for inflation and expressed in 1990 dollars.
The incomes for families headed by people 30 to 64 years of age fell more modestly, by 6.4 percent, to $38,451 in 1990. By contrast, families without children saw their incomes rise by 11.2 percent over the same period, to an average of $36,020.
The report said the income declines occurred even though "today's young family heads are somewhat better educated than those in the generation preceding them."
From 1973 to 1990, incomes fell 15 percent for young families headed by a parent with some college education, to a 1990 average of $27,000. Incomes fell 30 percent for those headed by a high school graduate, to $20,000, and 46 percent for those headed by a high school dropout, to $10,213.
 
Young Minority Families
 Only those families with children headed by a college graduate saw a rise in income, a 3 percent gain, to $38,700.
The report said that part of the worsening statistical picture derived from the fact that young families today were more likely to be members of minority groups. Black and Hispanic people have lower average earnings than whites, a trend that may reflect both lower educational attainment and racial discrimination.
The percentage of young families with children headed by a nonwhite parent rose to 35 percent in 1991, from 23 percent in 1974.
From 1973 to 1990, incomes fell 22 percent for young white families, 28 percent for Hispanic families and 48 percent for black families. Poverty rates rose to 23.8 percent for the children in young white families, 43.5 percent for those in Hispanic families and 57.9 percent for those in black families.
Clearly, some of the gloomy statistical news resulted from the near doubling of the percentage of young familes that are headed by a single parent, to 37 percent in 1991.
Since 1973, incomes for young married-couple families have fallen 13 percent, to $27,000 in 1990. But incomes in female-headed households dropped more sharply, by 27 percent to $7,256.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Shift in Family Fortunes" shows the median family income in 1990 dollars and the percentage change from 1973-1990. (Sources: Children's Defense Fund; Center for Labor Market Studies, Northeastern University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (94%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (94%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (94%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (94%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; INCOME CHILD WELFARE (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ADOLESCENTS (79%); PARENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); CENSUS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON SIR GEORGE YOUNG (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



493 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Results for 2 Paper Makers Move in Opposite Directions

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The International Paper Company yesterday reported a first-quarter profit, in contrast to a loss reflecting an extraordinary charge a year earlier, while the Boise Cascade Corporation said its first-quarter loss widened from 1991.
International Paper cited substantial improvement in its timber and wood-products business, while Boise Cascade cited deteriorating prices for important grades of paper. 
 Following are the details of the companies' results:
 
 
International Paper
 The forest products giant said it earned $102 million, or 87 cents a share, in the first quarter, in contrast to a loss of $87 million a year earlier.
The 1991 quarterly loss reflected a big charge for post-retirement health-care and insurance benefits that many companies are taking to conform with new accounting rules.
Sales rose 9.7 percent, to $3.4 billion, from $3.1 billion a year ago.
The company, based in Purchase, N.Y., said earnings before extraordinary items fell to $104 million, from $128 million in 1991, because of lower prices for printing and writing papers. But its results also reflected higher prices and sales of lumber and panel products and higher bulk sales of West Coast timber.
International Paper said prices of uncoated paper in the United States began to stabilize in March and added that pulp and linerboard prices and demand were improving.
The company's stock gained $2.375 yesterday, closing at $72.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Boise Cascade
The Boise, Idaho, paper products company lost $42.9 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $16.9 million a year earlier. Sales fell 3.9 percent, to $953.9 million from $992.7 million.
It was the fifth straight quarterly loss for Boise Cascade.
Earnings from building products doubled in the latest quarter, but that was more than offset by depressed prices for paper, high interest rates and depreciation charges from a 1987 capital investment program. The growth in demand for office products distribution and pulp and paper products was slight.
The company's stock lost 25 cents yesterday, closing at $20.875 on the Big Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (96%); OMX (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (96%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (96%); NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (91%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO; BOISE CASCADE CORP INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (96%); OFFICEMAX INC (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO; BOISE CASCADE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WEST USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS PAPER MFG (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); DEPRECIATION (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



494 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A Rebound For I.B.M. In Quarter

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
Rebounding from a financially disastrous 1991, I.B.M. reported yesterday that it moved into the black in the first quarter with earnings of $595 million, or $1.04 a share.
The profit contrasted with a loss of $1.7 billion a year earlier, when the company took a one-time charge of $2.26 billion, and it sent I.B.M. stock up 75 cents, to $88.25. I.B.M. helped propel the Dow Jones industrial average, of which it is a component, to a high of 3,306.13, up 36.23 points. 
 Yet while the world's largest computer maker's report was cautiously positive and its results stood in sharp contrast to the rival Digital Equipment Corporation, which reported a huge loss last week, financial analysts said it was too soon to credit the financial upswing to the company's restructuring announced in December.
 
A 'Sigh of Relief' Quarter
 One reason is that hardware sales, which had traditionally produced the majority of the company's earnings, dipped by 2.7 percent, falling to $7.1 billion for the first quarter of 1992 from $7.3 billion a year earlier.
"It was a sigh of relief type of quarter," said Steven Milunovich, a financial analyst at Salomon Brothers. But Mr. Milunovich added that he was a little disappointed about the decline in hardware sales "given that we're in a new mainframe cycle."
Historically, I.B.M.'s business has been driven forward by each new generation of its most powerful and expensive computers, an event that has come about every seven years.
For the first quarter, revenue was up 3.3 percent at $14.04 billion, compared with $13.59 billion in the period last year. Operating earnings before taxes rose 6.9 percent, to $991 million, from $927 million in the 1991 quarter, when the International Business Machines Corporation took a special charge to account for the future cost of retirees' health-care benefits.
Earlier this year, the Armonk, N.Y., company reported its worst financial results, recording a loss of $2.8 billion for all of 1991. Although most of that loss was from the 1991 accounting charge, the company's revenues also fell for the first time in the last 45 years last year, to $64.8 billion from $69 billion in 1990.
In December, the company put a number of changes into place and said it was beginning to transform itself into a collection of more autonomous subsidiaries. It also continued its half-decade process of paring its work force through incentives for voluntary departures.
The company, which had 344,000 employees at the end of last year, said in December that it planned to eliminate 20,000 jobs in 1992. That follows the departure of about 29,000 people last year.
But analysts pointed to a significant uptick in sales at the end of the first quarter. "The company pushed hard at the end of the quarter, but their guidance for the rest of the year is unchanged," said Steven Cohen, an analyst at the Soundview Financial Group.
I.B.M. seized the optimistic data as the first indication that its new business plan was working. It had spelled out the details in an end-of-the-year meeting in Manhattan with investors, analysts and reporters.
"Our recently announced plan to reshape I.B.M. into a spectrum of businesses is moving forward aggressively throughout the world, and a better focused I.B.M. is emerging," said John F. Akers, the company's chairman. "Over all, we're pleased with these results and believe we're on track toward achieving our financial objectives for the year."
 
Gains in U.S. and Asia
 Another bright spot was the company's United States business, which Mr. Milunovich estimated had risen between 8 and 9 percent for the quarter. The rise was offset by a sharp 5 percent decline in the computer maker's European business, which was recently battered by the slump in Western Europe's economy.
The company also saw growth in its Asian and Pacific businesses, but that was partly because of the purchase of a Japanese leasing company.
A number of Wall Street analysts cited improvement in I.B.M.'s ability to control its costs, a crucial component of its restructuring.
The company told analysts in a morning phone conference yesterday that its selling and administrative costs had declined by 3.5 percent and its research and development spending had fallen by 4.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); HPQ (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (50%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



495 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Dow Closes At 3,306.13, A Record

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks vaulted to new highs yesterday, as traders reacted to upbeat earnings reports from a handful of leading companies and sidestepped a futures market crisis caused by flooding in downtown Chicago.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 36.23 points, or 1.1 percent, to 3,306.13, marking its first close above 3,300 and the 14th time since Jan. 1 that the benchmark indicator set a record. The Dow's previous high was 3,290.25, reached on March 3. 
 "There are a lot of crosscurrents going on here," said Harrison Roth, senior options strategist at Cowen & Company. "But all things considered, it hasn't yet put the market under water."
 
Base of Optimism
 A solid base of optimism grew out of last week's easing of interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board, analysts said, and that provided a foundation for yesterday's rally when I.B.M. issued a better-than-expected earnings report.
Having started the day slowly, the Dow began its climb when I.B.M.'s news was released at midmorning. The Dow peaked at 3,336.54 at about 2:15 P.M., and retreated gradually until the close.
The continued strength of the stock market contributed to a surge in profits reported by three leading brokerages, Merrill Lynch, Charles Schwab and Paine Webber. Merrill, the nation's largest, reported its biggest quarterly profit ever. [Page D5.]
 
Disruption in Chicago
 In Chicago, water swelled in the basement of the Chicago Board of Trade building, flooding its electrical supply and forcing its futures markets to remain closed for a second day. The Mercantile Exchange, Chicago's other main futures market, was not directly affected by the flooding and resumed normal trading in the morning. Most activity was then halted at noon, an exchange official said, to allow member firms to catch up on a clearing backlog.
"About 40 percent of our members were forced to work out of makeshift offices," said Andrew A. Yemma, a spokesman for the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. "We had to give them time to catch up."
The Chicago Board of Trade plans to reopen at noon today for two hours of trading in all major sectors, said Michael Oakes, manager of corporate communications.
On the New York Stock Exchange, volume expanded to a healthy 231.1 million shares, up from 143 million shares in Monday trading that was slowed by the halt of futures trading in Chicago. Gaining issues outpaced losers by 1,220 to 512, and trading was affected only slightly by Chicago's disruption, analysts said.
 
Index Arbitragers Active
 With options and futures contracts expiring this week and markets closed on Good Friday, index arbitragers, who were made nervous by uncertainty in Chicago, traded stocks more actively yesterday than they might normally have. But as a futures trader at Morgan Stanley said, "Even if the spreads were a little larger, we were fairly comfortable making markets."
Apart from the Dow, no other major indicators set new records yesterday. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 6.31 points, or 1.55 percent, to 412.39, and the Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter stocks rose 6.66 points, or 1.13 percent, to 594.81.
The American Stock Exchange composite index rose 3.25 points, or less than 1 percent, to 392.14, and the Russell 2,000 index was lifted 1.85 points, to 198.91
 
Expectations of the Fed
 "There are now expectations built into the market that further steps will be taken by the Fed," said Robert Walberg, senior equity analyst at the Chicago office of MMS International, referring to the optimism sparked by last week's cut in the Federal funds rate. He and other analysts now expect a cut in the Fed's discount rate on loans to banks if the economic recovery does not gain speed.
But the spark that ignited yesterday's rally was the news on I.B.M.'s earnings. I.B.M. was the day's most actively traded stock, at 3.3 million shares, and while it rose only 3/4, to 88 1/4, the computer giant seemed to buoy the entire market.
"It enabled a lot of cyclical stocks to burst forth," said Mr. Walberg of MMS International. He cited International Paper, which rose 2 3/8, to 72 3/8; 3M, up 3 1/2, to 91 3/4, and General Electric, up 1 1/2, to 76 3/4. Procter & Gamble rose 4 1/2, to 104 1/2.
The Dow's rise since last week, however, has not fueled the sense of euphoria that infected Wall Street in January, when four new highs were set in seven days.
"People are going to have to focus on the broader market," said Paul Kronlokken, a technical analyst at Piper Jaffrey Inc. in Minneapolis. "Other indicators have lagged behind the Dow. We have to be on the lookout for a possible settling."
Mr. Walberg agreed. "It's going to be a little rougher ahead," he said. "Until we see some consolidation in the market, you have to be cautious."
Capital Cities/ABC and CBS also rose, apparently on expectations that each would soon report favorable earnings for the quarter. Capital Cities/ABC rose 11 1/4, to 442, and CBS gained 7 5/8, to 178.
In the over-the-counter market, Valley National shot up 11 3/4, to 49 3/4, after it announced it had agreed to merge with the Banc One Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D8)
 
Chart: "Dow Milestones" lists the Dow industrials first closed abouve certain levels. (pg. D8)
 
Graph: "A Record Close" shows the daily closes of the Dow Jones industrial average since Nov. 30. (Source: Datastream) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (86%); COWN (NASDAQ) (71%); SCHW (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (86%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (86%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CME GROUP INC (86%); COWEN GROUP INC (71%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FUTURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); BONDS (78%); EASTER SEASON (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR CHARLES R SCHWAB (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



496 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Candidate's Health;
VOICE RECOVERED, CLINTON CAMPAIGNS

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 14

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton's voice has been hoarse and strained for months, but it was not until he won the New York primary that he had the political luxury of taking the advice any good doctor would have been giving him for months: Shut up.
And a week off from the road -- which ended tonight as Governor Clinton flew to Los Angeles for two days of West Coast appearances -- seems to have given the Arkansas Governor as much benefit in his quest for the Democratic Presidential nomination as delivering any number of policy speeches could have. 
 In the last several days, he has collected a steady stream of carefully timed endorsements, including those of Representative Thomas S. Foley of Washington, the Speaker of the House; Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader, and Senater Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia, the Democratic Party's finance chairman.
The rallying-round-the-nominee feeling of the week was enhanced when the political arm of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. decided on Monday to recommend that the labor group back Mr. Clinton as well.
 
Brown Is Conciliatory
 Even Mr. Clinton's chief rival, Edmund G. Brown Jr., had conciliatory words for Mr. Clinton at a California Democratic Party meeting over the weekend, saying for the first time that he would support the party's nominee.
Mr. Clinton's traveling entourage will pay for the day's off the road almost immediately as the candidate attends fund raisers in Los Angeles and San Francisco Wednesday before flying overnight back to the East Coast. On Thursday in Philadelphia, he will deliver the economic-policy speech in that he was forced to cancel on Monday.
As Mr. Clinton has been recuperating, and the tempo of his visible campaign has slowed, the preparations have picked up for what his advisers see as an early start on the general election campaign. Strategists have used the time in Little Rock and Washington to meet with people from previous Democratic Presidential campaigns and to negotiate the timing of future endorsements.
The Capitol Hill endorsements, for instance, may have done more damage than good for Mr. Clinton while he was competing against the self-styled insurgent campaign of Mr. Brown in New York. "This isn't the year where you want to go stand on the steps of the U.S. Capitol and say how well you know the corridors of power," said Dee Dee Myers, the Clinton campaign press secretary.
 
Keeping Things Low Key
 So when the endorsements did come, they were not near any primary contests, and they were relatively low key. Mr. Gephardt, for instance, announced his support for Mr. Clinton on a Saturday evening Cable News Network talk show.
Mr. Clinton's advisers have also been debating how they can move the campaign debate beyond questions of Mr. Clinton's truthfulness and overall character to a direct challenge to President Bush.
"When you go out and campaign, people don't ask about this," said Mickey Kantor, the campaign chairman. "Somebody's going to realize some day that it's the press's issue and not the people's issue."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (60%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; HEALTH, PERSONAL; ENDORSEMENTS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); FUNDRAISING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (94%); JERRY BROWN (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



497 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: White House Memo;
Bush Makes Habit of Announcements

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FRASER, Mich., April 14

 BODY:
After months of hearing Republican strategists say that President Bush had to demonstrate a mastery of Government programs, the White House has apparently taken the advice to heart -- after a fashion.
In appearances around the country and speeches in Washington, Mr. Bush has taken to unveiling a handful of domestic policy initiatives again and again. 
 Today in Michigan, for example, he announced that he was taking steps to help young people train for jobs -- for the second time in three months. On Monday, Mr. Bush announced that he was taking steps to curb political spending by labor unions -- for the second time in three weeks.
Every politician has a basic speech presenting his central political message, and every politician repeats it at almost every stop in a campaign. That is what Mr. Bush did here today as he delivered what the White House calls "the five pillars of reform" speech at a machine-tool plant in this town northeast of Detroit.
 
Fact Sheet After Fact Sheet
 But as it casts about for new ways to show that the President is coming to grips with domestic issues and offering specific ideas for change, the Bush team has come up with a new wrinkle on this old political practice: offering not just the same speech, but the same policy announcements and, in some cases, the same policies, over and over again.
These have not just been an incumbent's usual recitation of his achievements, but full-blown policy announcements, complete with impressive program titles, as in today's "Job Training 2000 Act," and the blizzard of fact sheets and press releases that the White House typically produces for such occasions.
Mr. Bush's campaign chiefs make no apologies for the practice. "There is nothing cynical about talking about what you are doing as President, one time or five times or 20 times," said Robert M. Teeter, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. "There is no one-time rule and there shouldn't be."
Indeed, it is common wisdom among political strategists that the way for any politician, including a President, to get his "message" out is to repeat it, again and again, until enough people have heard it.
 
Sprinkling Bits of News
 But to make sure it is heard outside the room in which the President is speaking, it must generate news reports. The way to do that is to salt his speeches with enough news to provide reporters with a reason to write about them, and for an incumbent that means policy initiatives.
Some Republican strategists and disgruntled officials say the White House either has not got that idea yet or is simply having difficulty coming up with newsworthy executive actions in an Administration where the domestic policy apparatus is widely described as paralyzed.
So, while some Republicans wince in frustration, Mr. Bush is pushing a plan to require Federal contractors to inform nonunion members that they can withhold the portion of their dues that is used for political purposes. He announced the plan on March 20, and he announced it again on Monday.
The only difference between his announcement in Michigan today that he was offering Congress a new job training bill, and the same announcement he made in Atlanta on Jan. 17, was that Mr. Bush specified he would send the bill to Congress when it got back from recess in two weeks.
 
Harder Sell in the Capital
 Sometimes, Mr. Bush attracts news reports with recycled announcements, as he did with the anti-union measure. But more often, he ends up speaking into a public relations vacuum.
Mr. Bush generally does better when he is on the road, since local news organizations report on his coming to their towns even if he does not say anything essentially new. But Mr. Bush has been largely confined to Washington in the weeks since he stopped traveling heavily to counter the challenge from Patrick J. Buchanan. Some of his events there, including at least two long speeches in recent weeks, have gone virtually unnoticed.
Mr. Bush's critics say the reason is that many of his proposals do not seem to have much meat in them, partly because the President has not given his staff a clear vision of what he wants to do and partly because his campaign strategy assumes that the economy will rebound more or less by itself.
Roger B. Porter, the domestic policy adviser, said the idea behind announcing the Jan. 17 proposal again today was to add "an additional level of detail" -- that is, to include specific amounts of money to be spent on the plan. But the White House could not make clear how much was involved.
The White House said the plan included $50 million to impose certification standards on vocational schools. But that money, and that program, were in the budget proposal Mr. Bush sent to Congress in January.
All told, Mr. Bush's plan would mean no increase in the $18 billion the United States already spends on jobs programs. Officials also acknowledged that the measure has no sponsor in a Congress that has shown little interest in passing Mr. Bush's plans anyway.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush as he addressed employees yesterday at the Giddings & Lewis machine-tool plant in Fraser, Mich. He announced that his Administration was taking steps to help young people train for jobs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



498 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Picking College by the Aid

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
As a result of tuition increases and the recession, students are increasingly making decisions about where to attend school based on how much financial aid they receive.
What is more, students who receive financial help, and their parents, are challenging the amounts more than ever before and pressing institutions for more money. 
 The cost of tuition, room and board, along with books and other expenses, has increased 10 percent to 15 percent in the last few years, according to several university financial aid officials. Among the eight Ivy League institutions, for example, the cost of a single year is approaching $25,000.
The cost is comparable with other private institutions, like the University of Chicago or Stanford University. And at the so-called "public Ivies," like the University of Michigan, the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Virginia, a year of education costs only a few thousand dollars less.
"We find the cost is outrageous at all the universities, to be honest," said B. R. Vohra of Laurel, Md., an accountant whose son has been accepted at several universities, including Duke University, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Michigan, and who favors Michigan because it costs the least. "I have three other children who haven't gone to college yet."
Universities generally award a package of Federal and state student loan programs and university-supported scholarships, loans and work-study programs. The amount is usually based on a formula that takes into account a family's income, assets, debt and any additional children in college.
Every university has an appeal process. Generally, when a financial plan is appealed, the college will review the family's application once more. Sometimes -- but not often -- institutions will increase the financial package. "Honest mistakes are made," said Joe Paul Case, the dean of financial aid at Amherst College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; TUITION STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); TUITION FEES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); FAMILY (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



499 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Lawmaker's Life: Not So Wonderful

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Calif., April 13

 BODY:
Here in Big Sur, Representative Leon E. Panetta has long been admired as a champion of fishermen and environmentalists against the oil companies wishing to drill offshore. He is also chairman of an important Congressional committee, by all accounts a serious legislator and, at least by Washington power standards, an abstemious fellow.
Never mind. His constituents want to talk about something else. 
 "What I want to know," said Jeffrey Bartholomew, a 39-year-old bellhop at a Monterey wharfside hotel, "is how many checks has Leon bounced lately."
For Mr. Panetta and his colleagues in Congress, each trip home these days is a trial on charges of arrogance and sloth. And especially when it comes to the perquisites of office, the presumption of innocence does not seem to count.
"You get the feeling someone is robbing your integrity for no reason," said Mr. Panetta, a 53-year-old Democrat who prides himself on the simple ways he inherited from his Italian immigrant parents. "And it hurts. I didn't come to Washington to get free office furniture, or discounted shoeshines and haircuts. It offends me when this kind of thing comes up."
 
Perks And Their Price
 And so it is that Mr. Panetta returned home for the Congressional recess last weekend mindful of things he has taken for granted in his 16 years on Congress: the $129,500-a-year Congressional salary (he voted for the most recent pay raise), the potted office plants supplied by the United States Botanical Garden, the Congressional photography staff, the House gym, the fawning aides, the foreign trips, the three-day workweeks, the black-tie banquets.
But for every privilege, there is a drawback or indignity. Mr. Panetta's existence is marked by regular absences from his wife and three sons. Meals often consist of a roll or a bunch of grapes on the run. There is perpetual jet lag from a weekly transcontinental flight home, plus the expense of maintaining two households -- one of which is a two-bedroom Capitol Hill townhouse he shares with three other lawmakers.
Mr. Panetta operates with unusual frugality, using his frequent-flyer mileage to finance much of his official travel and buying some of his own office furniture. He elicited snickering from some colleagues when he returned to the Treasury this year's 4.2 percent cost-of-living raise.
 
Explaining to Critics
 Still, in the current political climate, Mr. Panetta finds that he has some explaining to do. He says that as a result of sloppy bookkeeping he overdrew his account at the House bank twice over a 39-month period, but he adds that the bank, which has been shut down, owes him $2,500 for debiting his account twice for the same check last year. He has admitted he was once listed as delinquent in paying $5,000 to the House restaurant because Greenpeace, the environmental group he was dining with, was slow to pay its bill.
When asked, Mr. Panetta also acknowledges traveling on a handful of junkets paid for by private foundations and philanthropic groups to Israel, Japan and Italy in his 16 years in Congress. Several times, he took his wife, Sylvia.
Nobody expects Mr. Panetta to have trouble winning re-election this year -- his 16th District is solidly Democratic -- but he finds himself in the uncomfortable position of forever having to explain his conduct.
Last Saturday, Dennis Law, a 38-year-old Navy computer programmer, visited Mr. Panetta in his office here to, as he said, "speak my mind."
"You should dump that Mercedes-Benz and buy an American car!" Mr. Law said, raising his voice.
Mr. Panetta giggled and then explained that he did not own a Mercedes. In fact, he said, he owns an Oldsmobile, which he leaves with his wife in Carmel Valley.
Mr. Panetta's workweek typically begins at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, where he lands after a long working weekend in California.
Last week, as is often the case, he landed at 6 A.M. Tuesday, having caught a couple of hours of sleep on the red-eye flight from San Francisco. "Welcome to the morning shift," he said in mock ebullience to the Budget Committee aide who picked him up.
Dropped at his townhouse, the Congressman napped for an hour before walking to work.
When he arrived at his cramped office in the Cannon building, his press secretary, Barry Toiv, was waiting. With Mr. Toiv producing, Mr. Panetta took a news release on a Medicaid reform bill into his makeshift office radio studio -- a closet full of paint cans and a beat-up refrigerator -- to record some sound bites for a radio station back home.
There were few votes that day, but nevertheless Mr. Panetta's schedule ended at midnight. He met with the Budget Committee staff to plot hearings for a balanced-budget amendment, participated in a strategy meeting with other Democratic leaders and conferred with the president of San Jose State University about the possible conversion of part of a military base into a marine biology school.
He also joined a luncheon attended by Italian-American business leaders and lawmakers, during which he was touted as a contender for the Democratic Vice-Presidential nomination. But the meal was disrupted when one businessman rose to coarsely admonish the lawmakers for arrogance and ineptitude.
After the luncheon, Mr. Panetta was driven to a downtown hotel to follow President Bush and several newspaper columnists in addressing a business group. Tired of all the Washington-speak, a third of the audience walked out as Mr. Panetta stepped up to speak.
 
Minefields in the Office
 Back at his office, a stream of constituents came by, bearing small gifts and asking favors. Such visits are a minefield that every lawmaker has to go through without breaking ethical rules or offending influential constituents or fund-raisers.
Two California beer distributers visited. Mr. Panetta flattered one by remarking how much weight he had lost. The distributer smiled and then complained that the Office of Substance Abuse was overreaching its jurisdiction by linking alcohol to drugs in its public-service announcements.
"That's a good place to cut the budget," the distributer said, in a not-so-subtle request that Mr. Panetta use his position as chairman of the Budget Committee to enhance the beer-distribution industry.
Mr. Panetta shrugged, and then said with a giggle, "You probably won't see that because the office has got a good title."
Mr. Panetta's retreat from the lobbyists, rubber-chicken luncheons and budget battles is the townhouse he shares with Representatives George Miller of California, Marty Russo of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn, all of them Democrats.
For the $400 monthly rent he pays Mr. Miller, Mr. Panetta shares the living room with Mr. Schumer, while the other Congressmen have bedrooms of their own. "He's on the bed where the piano should be and I'm on the couch," Mr. Schumer said. "I'm asleep when he comes in."
The roommates joke that Mr. Schumer has the annoying habit of eating whatever is left in the refrigerator and they sometimes engage in heated political arguments, but they appear to get along well. Some nights they sit together on Mr. Miller's bed to watch the late news or a talk show. Mr. Schumer said he did not mind when Mr. Panetta's son Jimmy recently shared the room for three months.
"The image of the average Congressman is on one end of the scale, and Leon is on the other," Mr. Schumer said.
Mr. Panetta still lives in the Carmel Valley ranch house built by his father from the money he earned in the restaurant business. For recreation, the Congressman tends the walnut trees he nurtured as a boy; he worships every Sunday at the Roman Catholic church where he attended parochial school.
"Coming back here restores me," Mr. Panetta said. "It re-establishes perspective. Washington can be so consuming."
But so can life in Carmel Valley.
On Saturdays he meets with constituents, guiding them through the red tape of the immigration service and hearing advice on how he should vote on a bill. Weekend nights are generally filled with some dinner or benefit, including a recent one sponsored by the Red Cross, during which he was asked to wait tables. On Sundays he usually answers constituent mail.
As soon as he arrives home on Friday afternoons, his wife, who doubles as his unpaid local office director, tells him of the newest emergency. Last week it was that a local Spanish-language radio station had falsely reported that Mr. Panetta was ready to grant extensions on unemployment compensation to the area's migrant workers.
Hearing the news, Mr. Panetta laughed, because he does not have such power. He and his wife conferred on how to coordinate with the State Employment Department on how to deal with the flood of inquiries. Pruning the garden would have to wait for another weekend.
"Anybody who takes this job for the perks," Mr. Panetta said, "is barking up the wrong tree."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Leon E. Panetta of California, right, still finds he must explain to constituents about overdrawing his House bank account. With him was Representative Raymond McGrath of Long Island. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Leon Edward Panetta"
 Born: June 28, 1938.
 Home: Carmel Valley, Calif.
 Education: Monterey High School; B.A., University of Santa Clara; J.D., University of Santa Clara Law School.
 Career Highlights: 1966-69, legislative assistant to Senator Thomas H. Kuchel, the minority whip; 1969-70, director, Office of Civil Rights, Department of Health, Education and Welfare; 1970-71, executive assistant to Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York; 1971-76, private law practice; 1976, elected to House of Representatives; 1989, elected chairman, House Budget Committee.
 Interests: Playing the piano; working on his ranch; reading; swimming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); COST OF LIVING (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (64%); 

PERSON: PANETTA, LEON E (REPR); PANETTA, LEON E (REPR) (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); KRAUSS, CLIFFORD LEON E PANETTA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



500 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 584 words

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: U. of Chicago's Long-Indomitable Leader to Retire

 BODY:
The durable and highly visible president of the University of Chicago, Hanna H. Gray, announced yesterday that she would retire at the end of the 1992-93 academic year and return to teaching history.
Mrs. Gray, who is 61 years old, has been president of the highly selective private university since 1978, and was one of the first women to lead a major American research university. Her 14 years in office make her one of the longest serving presidents of any major American university, an unusual figure in a period when the average tenure of a university president is six years. 
 The University of Chicago -- celebrating its centennial year -- has seen its three top administrative leaders announce their departures.
 
Loss of Heir Apparent
 Last month, the university's provost and the person considered by many to have been Mrs. Gray's heir apparent, Gerhard Casper, was named president of Stanford University. He was replaced last week by Edward O. Laumann, former dean of the graduate social sciences division.
In another recent move, the chairman of the university's board of trustees, Barry Sullivan, was named Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development in New York City. He will be replaced by Howard G. Krane, a partner in the Chicago law firm of Kirkland & Ellis. Mr. Krane had been vice chairman of the university's board.
"It's too bad that in this centennial year we did not have a greater sense of stability," said Bertram J. Cohler, a professor of psychology in the College, Chicago's undergraduate division.
Mrs. Gray's tenure at Chicago was marked by a continued commitment to the university's academic rigor. But she also often said that improving student life on one of the most intellectually intense campuses in the country was a priority for her. A winter festival, Kuviasungnerk, was begun to help undergraduates through Chicago's gloomy winters.
 
Faculty Unrest

At Chicago, Mrs. Gray became a spokeswoman for private higher education, serving as president of the American Council on Education in 1979 and the Association of American Universities in 1990.
Her long tenure and strong-willed leadership gave Chicago unusual stability but also created faculty unrest, because some professors believed she had been in office too long. Some felt that if she had stepped aside sooner, Mr. Casper, a revered figure on campus, would not have been lost to Stanford.
"She once said to me that 10 years was long enough for a person to spend in an administrative position," said Lorna P. Straus, a professor of anatomy who is a former dean of students. "It has been 14 years since she came as president. It is time for the university to have new leadership. And I'm one of those disappointed that it won't be Gerhard Casper."
But Mrs. Gray said her actions had not influenced Mr. Casper. She said she had made her decision last fall and had told Mr. Casper of her plans before he took the position at Stanford. She also said she had not been pressured by the board to retire, as had been rumored on campus.
"I began to talk about this matter almost a year ago with our chairman and had come to a decision in the fall," she said. "We came to very comfortable decision that an announcement would be made in the spring."
Mrs. Gray taught at Chicago from 1961 to 1972. She was dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University from 1972 to 1974, then provost of Yale University from 1974 to 1978, when she became president at Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (58%); 

PERSON: GRAY, HANNA H; DEPALMA, ANTHONY GERHARD CASPER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



501 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pledges to Help Trade With Ex-Soviet Republics

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
The Government plans to do more to help American businesses trade with and invest in the former Soviet republics, but it has not yet coordinated how to pay for the effort, Commerce Secretary Barbara H. Franklin said today.
United States exports to the region have risen sharply in the last year, as Eastern European enterprises have lost their preferential access to the market and as American businesses have unexpectedly grabbed market share, even from their rivals in other industrialized nations. 
 But American executives and even some Administration officials complain that the growth has come with little Government help and support.
 
No Government Export Loans
 The Government has yet to make any loans to finance exports to the republics and has only three commercial officers for all of them. By contrast, the German and Italian Governments have been pouring billions of dollars in export loans into the region, and Germany plans to open six commercial offices there by the end of the year.
Ms. Franklin said at a news conference that the Administration would start providing more money and information for American companies trying to do business in the former Soviet Union. But she declined to discuss how much money would be spent, saying her department still had to talk further with Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State.
Ms. Franklin said that she had set up a committee to look at how the Commerce Department could provide more help to exporters, and that she would meet with her Russian counterpart, Pyotr O. Aven, the Minister of Foreign Economic Relations, in June when President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia also were to meet.
The Commerce Department is likely to set up an office within two months to start helping companies do business in the republics, said a department official who insisted on anonymity. The center would be modeled on the department's Eastern Europe Business Information Center, which has nearly a dozen employees preparing and distributing newsletters and reviews of Eastern European markets by country and by industry.
 
Survey of Businesses' Problems
 Ms. Franklin today released a month-old Commerce Department survey of American businesses' problems in the republics. The report cited a lack of commitment by the governments to exports as well as unclear regulations, unstable currencies, inadequate information about potential markets and business partners, poor communications and a lack of trade agreements.
The report gave only passing mention to American controls on products with militarily sensitive technology. "That's being fairly naive -- there are studies all over the place that they are a brake," said Willard A. Workman, the United States Chamber of Commerce's vice president for international issues.
Yet despite the problems, American exports to the republics reached $392 million in January of this year, compared with $216.9 million in January 1991. And while subsidized grain shipments account for much of the increase, exports of manufactured goods rose 36.7 percent last year.
Western countries exports to the region are growing overall because Eastern Europe has lost the preferential trade access that it once enjoyed from a complicated system of ruble exchange rates. But even compared with other wealthy democracies, the United States has fared better than average.
 
American Share on the Increase
 According to Commerce Department figures, American exports accounted for 7.7 percent of all exports to the region from 24 large industrialized countries during 1990. But during the first 11 months of last year, the American market share rose to 12.5 percent.
During last November, the most recent month available for all 24 countries, the American share hit 15.2 percent.
But Italy and other countries that are spending heavily on government-backed export loans may now be gaining ground on the United States, said David C. Johnson, an economist at PlanEcon Inc., a Washington-based consulting firm that specializes in the republics and Eastern Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FRANKLIN, BARBARA H PYOTR AVEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



502 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Early-April Vehicle Sales Up 3.8% From Weak Period

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 14

 BODY:
Sales of North American-built vehicles rose just 3.8 percent in early April from a sluggish sales period a year earlier. The gain provided another sign that the auto market is recovering only gradually from a slump that began in the early stages of the Persian Gulf crisis in late 1990.
While light-truck sales increased 10.1 percent, to 99,834, in the April 1-10 period, car sales were virtually flat at 153,474. The increase in total vehicle sales, to 253,308 from 243,976, resulted from light trucks, which include pickups, mini-vans and utility vehicles. 
 The seasonally adjusted annual selling rate was 5.8 million, a drop from 6.2 million in late March but better than the 5.6 million rate in the 1991 period.
 
Assessments Differ
 "Fewer cars are being sold to fleets this year, so the actual strength of consumer buying is stronger than what is indicated by year-to-year comparisons," said Wendy Needham, an automotive analyst for Smith Barney, Harris Upham in New York.
But car dealers were divided in their assessment of the market. John Peterson, a Pontiac-GMC Truck dealer in Bloomington, Minn., said: "The economy is generally rebounding. People feel better."
He noted that G.M.'s Pontiac Grand Am and Bonneville cars were selling well, as were its GMC Suburban and Yukon light trucks.
 
 
'Hoping for Better'
 But Lee Beaman, a Nashville dealer who sells Pontiacs, Toyotas, GMC Trucks, Suzukis, Lincolns and Mercurys, called his sales disappointing. "Our sales were up 9 percent from last year and 11 percent from last month," he said. "But we had been hoping for better, at least 25 percent better. People are still apprehensive about the economy. They wonder if we have really turned the corner."
Mr. Beaman said that domestic brands were selling slowly, but that Toyotas were attracting customers "because of the new Camry."
Because sales of domestically built vehicles have improved somewhat, auto makers were able to cut by half the amount of down time in their factories in the last six months, compared with a year ago, according to Ward's Automotive Reports, an industry publication.
 The General Motors Corporation sold 72,350 cars during the period, 1.9 percent fewer than a year earlier, and 35,351 light trucks, up a scant three-tenths of a percent. Pontiac was the only one of G.M.'s five car divisions to post a solid gain over last year, on the strength of higher sales of its Grand Prix, Bonneville and Grand Am models.
The Ford Motor Company sold 44,432 cars, up 9.1 percent from a year earlier, and 36,668 light trucks, up 13.9 percent.
The Chrysler Corporation, which reports its vehicle sales once a month, sold an estimated 14,600 cars and 24,450 light trucks in the 10-day period, according to an estimate by Ward's.
 
 
New Camry Helps Toyota
 The Honda Motor Company sold 10,461 cars, an increase of 1.4 percent, while the Toyota Motor Corporation sold 6,255 cars, an increase of 63.5 percent. Toyota's increase is due largely to the popularity of its new Camry model, which is assembled in Georgetown, Ky.
Several of the Japanese auto makers had trouble selling cars built at their United States factories. The Mazda Motor Corporation's car sales dropped 27.1 percent, to 1,447. The Nissan Motor Company's car sales dropped 21.6 percent, to 1,602, and the Mitsubishi Motor Corporation's car sales dropped 17.5 percent, to 1,726.
In the fight for share of the market for domestically built cars, the Big Three gave ground slightly to Japanese producers, capturing an 85.6 percent share, compared with 86.4 percent a year earlier. But Detroit increased its lead in light trucks over its Japanese-based rivals, with 97.1 percent of the market, compared with 96.7 percent last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MINIVANS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P LEE BEAMAN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



503 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ARCO Cuts Spending And Sees Lower Profit

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The Atlantic Richfield Company said yesterday that it had slashed its capital spending plans for the next five years by 20 percent and that it expected to post sharply lower earnings for the first quarter because of lower oil and gas prices and difficulties in its chemical business.
Speaking to securities analysts in New York, Lodwrick M. Cook, ARCO's chairman and chief executive, said earnings for the first quarter would be "disappointing and below the fourth quarter of 1991." 
 ARCO earned $268 million, or $1.67 a share, in the fourth quarter of last year and $351 million, or $2.17 a share, in the first quarter of 1991. First-quarter 1992 results are to be released later this month; analysts were already anticipating a decline.
ARCO said capital spending would fall to $14.7 billion over the next five years from a projected $18.6 billion. The reductions will be spread across ARCO's operations, with the only increase being budgeted for the international division, ARCO said.
"We see a changed environment and are directing our spending plans accordingly," Mr. Cook said.
ARCO's stock gained 25 cents a share yesterday, closing at $107 on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Cook said ARCO, which is based in Los Angeles, was not changing its basic business strategies. But he said that both ARCO's energy and chemicals divisions were facing cyclical difficulties.
"Important industry variables, such as crude oil and domestic natural gas prices, are lower than the 1991 average," he said. "In addition, the weak economic environment has continued to negatively impact ARCO's interests in chemicals businesses."
The continued capital spending increases on foreign operations reflects ARCO's decision to conduct more of its oil and gas activities outside the United States. The company has major development programs in Southeast Asia, the North Sea and other overseas locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (98%); BP (LSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (98%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (98%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO) BP PLC (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC RICHFIELD CO (ARCO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FORECASTS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W LODWRICK M COOK (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



504 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: C.D.'s and Bank Funds Are Down Sharply

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on bank money market accounts and certificates of deposit were down sharply for the week ended yesterday, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.
"Last week's cut in the Federal funds rate by the Federal Reserve Bank and Chemical Bank's quarter-point cut in its prime lending rate on Monday, to 6 1/4 percent, may mean that we may likely see another round of interest rate cuts before we see another uptick in interest rates," said Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor. 
 He also noted the significant drop in rates at the Treasury's weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills. The results of this closely watched auction sometimes reflect what banks might pay their deposit customers.
 
'Something Needs Fixing'
 "You don't get these kinds of cuts one after another unless something needs fixing," Mr. Heady said. "That the economy is not recovering as expected brings back to mind similar events of a year ago, when the economy slid back into recession."
This new round of cuts could send interest rates even lower, he added, and push depositors into investments, like stocks, bonds and mutual funds.
With April historically a high rollover month for certificates of deposit, some banks may still offer special rates but not as high as depositors would like, bank analysts say.
Yields at New York-area banks slipped significantly, with the average yield on a money market at 3.57 percent, down 6 basis points, and three- and six-month certificates, down 4 basis points, to 3.61 percent and 3.76 percent, respectively. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
Among New York commercial banks, the slip was the greatest, with money market accounts and three-month certificates down an average 7 basis points, to 3.30 percent and 3.41 percent, respectively. The average yield for a six-month certificate was down 5 basis points, to 3.50 percent. At savings institutions money markets were down an average 4 basis points, to 3.85 percent, while three- and six-month certificate dropped 2 basis points, to 3.83 percent and 4.03 percent, respectively.
The biggest yield adjustments in the New York area came from the Republic National Bank, which cut 26 basis points from both its money market account and six-month certificate, to 3.56 percent and 3.82 percent, respectively. While Manufacturers Hanover, dropped the yield on its three-month certificate by 25 basis points, to 3.15 percent.
Yields were also sharply lower at 20 large banks outside the New York-area, with the average money market account down 4 basis points, to 3.52 percent, and a six-month C.D. down 8 basis points, to 3.87 percent.
At the Treasury's weekly bill auction on Monday, interest rates dropped more than a quarter-point, with the average rate on three- and six-month bills at 3.60 percent and 3.73 percent, respectively.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, April 14,1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.56	3.36	3.41	Bank of N.Y.	3.30	3.41	3.51	Bank of Tokyo Trust	3.10	3.12	3.24	Chase Manhattan	3.15	3.35	3.41	Chemical	2.80	3.15	3.19	Citibank	3.10	3.10	3.15	Conn. Nat'l Bank	3.61	3.56	3.67	EAB	3.25	3.36	3.41	Fleet Bank	4.00	3.55	3.65	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.25	3.85	4.00	Marine Midland	3.09	3.15	3.35	Manufacturers Hanover	2.80	3.15	3.19	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	3.56	3.90	4.00	Nat'l Westminster	3.30	3.51	3.51	Republic Nat'l	3.56	3.67	3.82	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	American Savings	4.20	3.80	4.00	Anchor Savings	3.80	3.82	4.00	Apple Bank Savings	3.87	3.77	4.03	Astoria Fed Savings	3.56	3.82	3.93	Bowery Savings	3.98	3.82	4.03	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	4.00	4.30	4.50	Crossland Savings	3.95	3.65	3.99	Dime Savings Bank	3.60	3.80	4.00	Emigrant Savings	3.50	3.60	4.00	First Nationwide	4.00	3.75	3.80	Greater NY Savings	3.90	3.80	4.00	Green Point Savings	3.95	N.O.	4.00	Howard Savings (N.J.)	3.80	3.90	4.15	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	4.08	4.15	4.25	People's Bank (Conn.)	3.51	3.61	3.72	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	3.71	-0.11	3.82	-0.10	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	3.45	-0.11	3.75	-0.20	Citibank, S.D.	4.00	-0.05	4.59	-0.10	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.50	0.00	3.75	0.00	First Bank (Minnesota)	3.30	-0.10	3.80	-0.05	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.04	0.00	3.76	-0.11	First National (Chicago)	3.56	0.00	3.98	0.00	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	3.60	0.00	3.75	0.00	Fleet Bank (Boston)	3.71	-0.11	4.08	0.00	Maryland Natl	3.70	0.00	4.00	+0.05	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.82	0.00	3.95	-0.15	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	3.28	-0.05	4.00	0.00	NationsBank (Atlanta)	3.61	0.00	4.06	-0.08	National Bank (Detroit)	3.66	0.00	3.60	-0.15	NCNB Tampa	3.50	0.00	3.95	0.00	Security Pacific (L.A.)	3.71	-0.04	3.75	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.25	0.00	3.80	0.00	Texas Commerce (Houston)	3.04	0.00	3.82	-0.20	Union Bank (S.F.)	3.61	0.00	3.77	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	3.56	0.00	3.60	-0.25	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)

Table: Bank Money Accounts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (51%); HSB (PAR) (51%); HBC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (58%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (51%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (51%); NEW YORK (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); READING, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBERT K HEADY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



505 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Alan Bond Is Declared Bankrupt in Australia

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, April 14

 BODY:
Alan Bond, the executive best known for financing Australia's triumph in the 1983 America's Cup yacht race, was declared officially bankrupt today.
A banking group headed by the Hongkong Bank of Australia applied for a trustee to be appointed after Mr. Bond failed to repay $194 million arising from a personal guarantee he gave on a loan to a former nickel mining project. 
 The federal court in Sydney ended the yearlong legal battle by rejecting all arguments presented on Mr. Bond's behalf and appointed Robert Ramsay, an accountant, as trustee of his insolvent estate.
 
No Comment From Lawyer
 Mr. Bond's lawyer, Neil Lawson, refused to comment on whether an appeal would be filed, saying he would discuss the available options with his client.
The bankruptcy declaration was the latest chapter in the long fall for the British-born Mr. Bond, a former sign painter who created a financial empire based in Perth.
He was once named Australian of the Year, ranked among the country's richest men, and was virtually a national hero for financing the America's Cup victory over the United States.
But last September, Mr. Bond told the New South Wales Supreme Court that he had few assets left other than about $38,000 in three Perth bank accounts.
When the bankruptcy decision was issued, he was in Perth to appear before a specially appointed Royal Commission investigating possible irregularities in business-Government relations in West Australia state.
 
Trial on Rothwells Set
 Mr. Bond has pleaded not guilty to a charge that he had violated the Securities Code by inducing another executive, Brian Coppin, to contribute to the failed 1987 rescue of Rothwells, a merchant banking company, while concealing a $12 million fee.
Rothwells collapsed in November 1988, with losses of about $200 million. A trial is scheduled to start May 25.
At its peak, the Bond Corporation Holdings Ltd., the company he founded, included interests in brewing, media, resources and property. It had a gold mine and telephone company holdings in Chile, as well as brewing and other mining interests in the United States.
Mr. Bond rode out the stock market crash by living off proceeds from his beer business. Former Prime Minister Bob Hawke once called him "a great Australian."
 
Debts Beyond $6 Billion
 But Mr. Bond continued to extend and overextend his empire. The Bond Corporation eventually ran up debts exceeding $6 billion.
Heavy debts, rising interest rates and bad business decisions alienated Mr. Bond's bankers and creditors, put his Australian brewing interests into receivership and forced him to sell assets ranging from a Hong Kong office development to a coal mine.
Mr. Bond once paid $53.9 million, a record at the time, for Vincent Van Gogh's "Irises," only to be forced to sell it, reportedly for a loss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (88%); 

COMPANY: HONGKONG BANK OF AUSTRALIA HSBC BANK AUSTRALIA LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONGKONG BANK OF AUSTRALIA

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (90%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); MINES & MINING (76%); COAL MINING (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); MERCHANT BANKING (72%); NICKEL MINING (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BOND, ALAN ALAN BOND (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



506 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Flat to a Bit Higher While Gold Prices Are Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was flat to marginally higher yesterday against most currencies, partly because of worries about political instability in Russia.
Gold prices were also higher. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold closed at $339.50 a troy ounce, up 30 cents. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted gold bullion at $339.25, up 45 cents. 
 "It was a very quiet day," said Kevin Logan, chief economist for the Swiss Bank Corporation's New York office. "We traded in a very tight range and the markets barely moved."
Although President Borris Yeltsin of Russia reached a compromise yesterday with lawmakers that will allow him to continue free-market changes, there is still uncertainty surrounding Russia's political and economic future, traders said.
On Monday, Mr. Yeltsin's Cabinet offered to resign to protest the Russian Parliament's vote Saturday demanding changes in Russia's reforms.
Investors tend to seek the relative safety of the United States currency during times of international instability. Concern over a slowdown in Germany's economy and high interest rates there have also favored the dollar, Mr. Logan said.
The dollar rose against the mark in New York yesterday to 1.6535 marks, from 1.6530 late Monday. In London, the dollar finished at 1.6445 German marks, down from 1.6550.
United States retail sales figures released yesterday showed an expected four-tenths of 1 percent decline in March after a strong 1.3 percent gain in February. The weaker figures, however, did not hurt the dollar much, Mr. Logan said.
The report was seen as further evidence of an uneven recovery, rather than a return to recession. Other economic reports due out this week are not expected to have much impact on the dollar, Mr. Logan said.
In New York, the dollar closed at 133.00 yen, unchanged from Monday's close. In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 133.05 yen, down 0.25 yen. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 132.70 yen.
Sterling in New York closed at $1.7640, up from $1.7625 late Monday. In London, the British pound rose to $1.7720 from $1.7630.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); JAPAN (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); JAPAN (70%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); SALES FIGURES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); RETAIL SALES (65%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: KEVIN LOGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



507 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
2 Wisconsin Agencies Price $124.69 Million in Bonds

 BODY:
Two Wisconsin state agency bond issues totaling $124.69 million were priced for public sale yesterday.
A $72.94 million issue of housing revenue bonds from the Housing and Economic Development Authority through underwriters led by the First Boston Corporation was tentatively priced to yield a maximum 7.15 percent for a debt security due in 2013. The bond is part of financing that may be subject to the Federal alternative minimum tax for some investors. Shorter maturities also subject to the tax are priced to yield from 5.25 percent in 1995 to 6.6 percent in 2002, with another long-term maturity due in 2007, priced to yield 7.05 percent. 
 Bonds that are not subject to the tax include an issue due in 2015 that is priced to yield 7 percent and another in 2022, priced to yield 7.1. percent.
The bond offering has a confirmed A-1 rating by Moody's Investors Service Inc., with the Standard & Poor's Corporation expected to rate it A.
The other Wisconsin agency in the market yesterday was the Health and Educational Facilities Authority, which is selling $51.75 million in revenue bonds for a project of the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin Inc.
Underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs & Company priced the shorter-term serial bonds to yield from 5.2 percent in 1995 to 6.4 percent in 2003. The long-term issues, which include a bond due in 2011 and another in 2021, were priced to yield 6.65 percent and 6.7 percent, respectively.
Because of insurance from the Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, covering interest and principal payments, the bonds are rated triple-A by both Moody's and S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE CO (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN UNITED STATES (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (98%); BOND ISSUES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



508 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Goodrich Posts $100,000 Profit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, April 14

 BODY:
The B. F. Goodrich Company said today that it posted a small profit for the first quarter in contrast to a deficit a year earlier.
Goodrich, which makes specialty chemical products, vinyl-based polymers and aerospace products and services, reported it earned $100,000 in the three months ended March 31 in contrast to a loss of $2.9 million a year ago. 
 Revenue for the quarter rose 4.8 percent, to $605.3 million, from $577.7 million a year earlier.
"If economic conditions continue to strengthen, we would expect to see significant growth in earnings in the quarters ahead," said John D. Ong, chairman and chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GR (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (94%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (94%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODRICH, B F, CO GOODRICH CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODRICH, B F, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); POLYMERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CHEMICALS (87%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN D ONG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



509 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 62 words

HEADLINE: Barden Lays Off 45

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DANBURY, Conn., April 14

 BODY:
The Barden Corporation, which makes industrial bearings, has laid off 45 workers because of a drop in business. "Incoming orders are down," Robert Buch, the company's chief executive officer, said today. "I don't see any sign of an end of the recession." Barden eliminated 94 positions in 1991 after an early-retirement incentive failed to attract enough volunteers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: BARDEN CORP BARDEN CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARDEN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); EARLY RETIREMENT (85%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BUCH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



510 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Eating Well

BYLINE: By Marian Burros

 BODY:
IT'S the late 20th century and Lucy Ricardo's Vitameatavegamin of the 50's has been replaced by Jay Kordich's cabbage-spinach-carrot juice. Lucy would be so jealous. Mr. Kordich was selling juicers door-to-door and sleeping in his pickup truck when "I Love Lucy" was still a gleam in Desilu's eye. Now he sells Juiceman II machines on television and drives a Mercedes. His book, "The Juiceman's Power of Juicing" (Morrow, 1992), had a first printing of 300,000 copies and will be on the New York Times best seller list on Sunday.
Whether it's the Juiceman IIor one of the many other machines that separate juice from pulp, these machines are flying out of stores the way oat bran once did. "We can't keep them in the store," said Sheiliah Kissoondath, the office manager at Integral Yoga Natural Foods on West 13th Street in Manhattan. "Business is so good, it's bad. Manufacturers are not filling complete orders." 
 Eat your heart out, Cuisinart.
Mr. Kordith and his imitators have convinced hundreds of thousands of Americans that juicing is as close as they are going to get to the Second Coming. Drink juice, live longer. Have softer, younger skin, more energy. Cure impotency, migraines, anxiety, acne, bleeding gums, sunburn, tendinitis, arthritis, heart disease, cancer, prostate problems, hair loss and weak nails. A juicing fix will improve virtually everything.
"Some of those infomercials originally snagged me," said Allan Fromberg, the assistant editor at Courier-Life Publications, a chain of weekly newspapers in Brooklyn. Mr. Fromberg can't swear that it's the three or four trips to his juicer each day that have improved his energy level. "It's possible I've been eating better," he said. "I don't believe it's gospel, but I don't mind being a consumer pawn."
There's nothing wrong with drinking fresh fruit and vegetable juices. But the idea that juice is much better for you than a whole vegetable or fruit has some nutritionists seeing red. Bonnie Liebman, the director of nutrition at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer-advocacy group in Washington, doesn't understand why the juice advocates think it is so important that juice goes through your system faster than whole fruits or vegetables.
"What's the rush?" she said. "What difference does it make whether you digest a vegetable or fruit in two hours or two minutes? No one is paying for the use of your digestive tract by the hour."
Of course, juice is more easily digested than the plant from which it is made, but despite what these pitchmen (and women) say, fruits and vegetables do not put any strain on the normal digestive system, as some have suggested. "Juice is much easier on your body," said Manu Dawson, the nutritionist at Integral Yoga. "It's harder to digest the fiber." Then he added, in response to a question, "Fiber is very important so one should certainly have whole foods."
Mr. Kordich agrees on the need for fiber, but in his book he writes: "By drinking juice, you are eliminating a digestive process -- extracting the liquid from the fiber -- and efficiently supplying the body with nutrients. The juicer separates the juice from the fiber so that what you drink is pulp-free and your body receives the maximum amount of nutrients in minutes."
That's what Mr. Kordich says.
This is what the University of California at Berkeley Wellness Letter says: "Some nutrients stay behind in the solids -- thus the whole fruit may contain more of some nutrients."
And this is what Dr. James Duke, an economic botanist at the Agricultural Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture, says about juice versus whole foods: "I have no reason to think juice is any better than whole fruits and vegetables. I certainly would not tell you to throw the fiber away.
"You do not know what compounds have been left behind when the juice is separated from the pulp. The ratio of these compounds in the fruit is not the same as the ratio in the juice itself."
Checking on fruit versus fruit juices, Dr. Duke found that some juices may have more minerals than an equal volume of the fruit. But he said in a letter that in most cases "the total nutrient or mineral per 100 grams juice is lower than the total per 100 grams fruit." This is particularly true for beta-carotene and tocopherol, both antioxidants.
Dr. Duke does not dismiss out of hand the medicinal claims made for juice or for whole fruits and vegetables. As a specialist who has worked with the designer foods program at the National Cancer Institute, Dr. Duke has a computer full of connections between foods and disease.
"There's no question about a food pharmacy," Dr. Duke said, but he said Mr. Kordich exaggerates the medicinal value of juices. "His statements are more positive than I could possibly make them, even with my more powerful data bases," he said.
For instance, studies on anti-cancer action by certain compounds have been done with the compounds themselves, not with the fruits or vegetables containing them. "Kordich takes a kernel of truth," Ms. Liebman said, "and extrapolates. To put it kindly, it's a theoretical connection."
In a telephone interview last week, Mr. Kordich said he was not exaggerating. "The only thing that works is live foods," he said, without explaining why he considers juice a "live food" but not whole raw fruits and vegetables. "Everyone who eats cooked foods has an immune system that is shot."
Unlike the Hadacol salesmen who peddled the worthless alcohol-based patent medicine for everything that ailed you, compounds in juices do have medicinal properties. But Mr. Kordich makes more out of the connections than science has proved.
The same can be said for most of Mr. Kordich's food cures, like cucumbers to prevent hair loss.
"I haven't heard that one," Dr. Duke said. "If it were true, we'd be selling a lot more cucumbers and a lot less Rogaine," a reference to the drug that can make hair grow.
Though Mr. Kordich would not budge on the validity of his claims, he did acknowledge that the amount of the medicinal compounds in juices is unknown. "Whether we know the amount or not," he said, "I do know that one glass of pineapple juice is the equivalent of 10 pineapples. We know they need a juicer whether the numbers are high or low."
Sensationalism is the word used by Dr. Duke to describe Mr. Kordich's efforts, and he offered his own example. "My data base indicates that corn salad contains more than three milligrams of boron per 100 grams. U.S.D.A. studies show that three milligrams of boron will double blood levels of testosterone. Sensationalists would jump to conclusions and say that a 100-gram serving of corn-salad juice containing three milligrams of boron would make an old man randy, or at least randier."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: JUICEMAN'S POWER (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: JUICES; DIET AND NUTRITION; FRUIT; VEGETABLES FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); NUTRITION (86%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (77%); BESTSELLERS (77%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (76%); INFOMERCIALS (71%); SKIN DISORDERS (70%); ACNE (70%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (67%); HEART DISEASE (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (66%); CANCER (65%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); PERIODONTAL DISEASES (64%); CONSUMER LAW (61%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (52%); HAIR LOSS (50%); 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN; KORDICH, JAY JAY KORDICH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



511 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: More Advice for Doctors: U.S. Guides on Treatments

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14

 BODY:
Doctors have no shortage of advice when it comes to treating patients, either before or after the fact. And now a new voice is murmuring over the physician's shoulder, speaking cautiously and softly but nonetheless representing the opinions of experts backed by the Federal Government.
The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, established by Congress in 1989, has been charged with finding out what the nation gets for the billions of dollars it spends annually on health care and what can be done to improve the return on this investment. 
 Last month the agency began issuing a series of clinical practice guidelines that outline the optimum way for doctors, nurses and other health-care providers to treat certain conditions that affect many Americans. Experts say there is a tremendous variation around the country, and sometimes in the same community, in how doctors and others treat illness, sometimes to the detriment of the patient.
 
New Guides in Works
 The initial recommendations on managing pain after surgery and treating urinary incontinence will be followed in coming months by guidelines on pressure ulcers or bed sores, impairment from cataracts, asymptomatic patients infected with the AIDS virus, sickle cell disease and numerous other conditions.
Part of the agency's charge is disseminating its work, including the guidelines, not only to the medical professions and health industry, but to the public. Agency spokesmen say they have been inundated with requests from the public for copies of consumer versions of the guidelines issued so far.
Of all of its duties, developing guidelines for medical care may be the most controversial. Medical groups have been suspicious of such efforts, particularly when they involved the Government, because of fears that they could lead to standardized "cookbook medicine" that dictated specific treatments and interfered with the doctor-patient relationship.
But in recent years, doctors' groups, including the American Medical Association, have warmed to the idea of broad guidelines it calls practice parameters that outline acceptable therapy options. Adhering to accepted therapeutic approaches may result in better treatment while reducing malpractice claims and decreasing defensive medicine that results in prescribing unnecessary tests and care, some doctors have come to believe.
In this spirit, groups representing doctors and other health providers have supported the efforts of the new policy and research agency and given it their cautious support.
 
Support From A.M.A.
 "We're encouraged by the direction taken by the agency," said Dr. James S. Todd, executive vice president of the American Medical Association. "This is a fine-tuning of the manner in which we provide health care in this country." He said the Government and others should speed the development of practice guidelines in an effort to reduce wasteful defensive medicine and better use health resources.
"We're giving an awful lot of care in this country that shouldn't be given," Dr. Todd said. "Developing practice guidelines can eliminate that care which is marginal."
Dr. J. Jarrett Clinton, director of the policy and research agency, which is part of the Public Health Service, said he was approaching practice guidelines in a new way in hope of increasing their chances of being adopted into standard practice. The agency does not write guidelines itself, but instead convenes panels of experts from other institutions to do the work or contracts with outside organizations to study certain medical procedures.
And instead of having just doctors work on treatment guidelines, the agency puts together panels that include all those involved with managing a disease or condition, as well as consumer representatives, Dr. Clinton said. This can include nurses, nutritionists, physical therapists, pharmacists, social workers, psychologists and many others.
 
Role as a Catalyst
 "We serve as a catalyst," Dr. Clinton said. "We have gotten groups that normally don't talk to each other to join around our table and determine what is best for patient care. Every panel person I talk to says how much they've learned about other people's specialties, and how they've developed a new appreciation for what other people do in managing a particular condition."
Dr. Clinton said the guidelines being developed tend to lay out options for care rather than picking certain practices as standards from which health workers should not deviate.For instance, if studies indicate three drugs are effective in treating a condition, the guidelines would list the drugs and what is known about them and doctors would have the option of choosing the one they consider best for a particular patient.
Unlike most recommendations on care issued by other medical groups, the new agency's guidelines are tested in clinics, medical offices and hospitals before they are released to make sure they are practical. This extra effort, coupled with periodic review of the guidelines to keep them up to date, should help persuade doctors and others to adopt them, Dr. Clinton said.
More significant than even the practice guidelines, Dr. Clinton said, are large-scale, nationwide studies of patient outcomes that are under way to determine how variations in care affect people's lives. So far, 12 Patient Outcome Research Teams, which Dr. Clinton calls "the jewels in our crown," have been financed to judge the effectiveness of treatment of heart attack, cataracts, arthritis and other conditions; initial findings should be available in a year or two.
Eventually, efforts like establishing treatment guidelines and studying the long-term benefits of certain therapies on patients could lead to reducing the cost of medical care, but that is not a goal of the agency, Dr. Clinton said.
"There are those in Congress who hoped, and still hope, that this effort would be a cost-savings device, but it has limited use for this purpose," Dr. Clinton said. "This is not about cost-cutting, but about getting the best value per dollar spent in the long run. In some cases, for instance, the guidelines may result in spending more money on some things."
Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who was one of the main sponsors of the bipartisan effort to create the new agency, said he was pleased with its work so far.
"It is doing what we set out for it to do," said Mr. Waxman, the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and Environment. "We not only want practice-pattern and outcome research to give us guidance for policy and reimbursement, but also to improve the practice of good medicine in this country."
If spending on health care must be cut, Mr. Waxman said, the agency's work would have another use. "I'd rather we do that with knowledge of what is appropriate care and not by arbitrary standards or some meat-ax approach," he said.
Dr. Robert H. Brook, a health-care researcher at the RAND Corporation and the University of California at Los Angeles, said it was too early to tell how effective the new agency would be. For more than 12 years, Dr. Brook has led a project that has documented the inappropriate use of a number of expensive surgical procedures, and he said the Federal agency appeared to be paying more attention to diseases than to some of these costly and overused procedures.
"To make the health system better now, we need to develop more guidelines for these major procedures, such as prostate surgery and hysterectomies," Dr. Brook said. And to get health professionals to accept guidelines, he added, clinical incentives like better care for patients must be combined with economic ones, like limiting reimbursement for those ignoring the recommendations.
Dr. John T. Kelly, the medical association's quality assurance director, said the nation's nearly 500,000 practicing doctors suffered from no shortage of recommendations and guidelines on how to do their jobs. Many medical specialty groups, general medical societies, government agencies like the National Institutes of Health, private research groups, insurance and reimbursement organizations and others offer advice, solicited or otherwise.
The medical association's latest directory of practice guidelines lists 1,300 sets of advice for the nation's doctors from various sources and 250 more under development, Dr. Kelly said.
"Since the 1930's, when the American Academy of Pediatrics released its first guidelines on immunization, they have become very broadly used because of their demonstrated success," Dr. Kelly said. "And in 1986, when the American Society of Anesthesiologists issued specific recommendations for monitoring oxygen and other gases, this had a tremendous impact on cutting adverse events and liability and quickly became a standard."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Clinical Practice Guidelines In the Works"
 
Medical Issue: Prediction, prevention and early treatment of pressure ulcers (bed sores) in adults
Report expected: May 1992
 
Medical Issue: Diagnosis and treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland)
Report expected: June/July 1992
 
Medical Issue: Diagnosis and treatment of depressed outpatients in primary care settings (doctors' offices)
Report expected: June/July 1992
 
Medical Issue: Management of functional impairment due to cataract in the adult
Report expected: June/July 1992
 
Medical Issue: Sickle cell disease
Report expected: July 1992
 
Medical Issue: Evaluation and early intervention for H.I.V.-positive patients without symptoms
Report expected: October 1992
 
Medical Issue: Management of cancer-related pain
Report expected: December 1992
 
Medical Issue: Otitis media (middle-ear infection) in children
Report expected: December 1992
 
Medical Issue: Diagnosis and treatment of heart failure secondary to coronary vascular (blood vessel) disease
Report expected: December 1992
 
Medical Issue: Post-stroke rehabilitation
Report expected: December 1992
 
Medical Issue: Treatment of deeper pressure ulcers (bed sores)
Report expected: February 1993
 
Medical Issue: Low back problems
Report expected: February 1993
 
Medical Issue: Screening for Alzheimer's and related dementias
Report expected: 1993
 
Medical Issue: Factors in quality of mammography
Report expected: 1993
 
(Source: Agency for Health Care Policy and Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN (AMA); AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (63%); AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY & RESEARCH (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN (AMA); AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY AND RESEARCH AGENCY FOR HEALTH CARE POLICY & RESEARCH (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; MALPRACTICE; NURSING AND NURSES HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); VIRUSES (71%); CATARACTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (61%); INCONTINENCE (52%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (51%); 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



512 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Studying the Fine and Less Expensive Art of Dining at Home

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 14

 BODY:
Surrounded by steam kettles and double-stack boilers, a class of food aficionados gathered around a master chef at his cutting board recently as he filleted a salmon, bone by bone, and lectured on the art of selecting vegetables.
"Please don't buy those jumbo carrots," Bradley Ogden, one of the country's leading chefs, chided over the whir of exhaust fans. "The big ones have no flavor to them. When you buy one, smell it, see if it's heavy, if the stem is still attached, if it has an aroma. If it doesn't, put it back." 
 Before him, taking notes, stood an accountant, a chiropractor, a schoolteacher, a stockbroker, a general contractor and some insurance executives, all of whom spent close to $900 a couple plus air fare to hear these words of wisdom and chop onions and grate ginger with the best in the business.
They had flown in from Palm Springs, Fla.; Tulsa, Okla.; East Hampton, L.I., and Nashville, 88 people altogether who spent a tidy sum for a weekend of cooking school at the Four Seasons Hotel here.
It was one of a series of enormously popular cooking weekends organized by Food and Wine magazine in conjunction with Four Seasons Hotels around the country that seem to have flourished in these days of scrimping and cocooning. To these amateur cooks, this was not money out the window but a long-term investment in healthier eating and a quick lesson in re-creating the foie gras 80's without guilt.
"People are finding you can do it for less at home and on your own terms," said W. Peter Prestcott, a senior editor at Food and Wine. "Home is becoming the last fortress. People are redigging their moats, drawing the curtains and standing by their stoves with their nearest and dearest."
Like recovering shopaholics chastened by overspending, some of the people who gathered here on a brisk spring weekend admitted to the excesses of a cheerier decade, the $100 dinners that had become all too routine, the feigned ignorance about how to preheat an oven. Now they want to change.
"Our version of cooking was pushing the re-dial button on the telephone to see which restaurant delivered," said Melvina Ng, a Manhattan accountant, who came to the cooking weekend with her husband, Mark Ng, a teacher.
Now Mr. Ng was assisting Mr. Ogden, the executive chef of the Lark Creek Inn outside San Francisco, with the blood-orange vinaigrette, pouring the olive oil as Mr. Ogden stirred.
In another corner of the kitchen, Richard Shilowich, a general contractor from East Hampton, stood over a flat-top range grilling onions. The cooking weekend was his Christmas present from his wife, Terri Rauch, a chiropractor, and Mr. Shilowich, the primary cook in the family, was in nirvana.
"What you get out of a weekend like this is a lot of subtleties," Mr. Shilowich said. "You can always pick up a recipe."
For them, the weekend was a declaration of independence from long lines at hot restaurants and the pressure to be pretentious.
"We've all gotten tired of the $100 dinners that are mediocre," Ms. Rauch said. "We're all going back to home-style things. Now you're not embarrassed to serve Irish stew or beef burgundy or pizza. People are just happy to be getting together. And you don't have to worry about somebody dropping the Waterford."
The downscaling of the food experience was everywhere during the weekend. Instead of decadent centerpieces of fresh-cut flowers flown in from the tropics, the tables at the weekend's semiformal dinner had glass vases filled with things like turnips or artichokes in free-form vegetable sculptures.
And in a course on table-setting, Mr. Prestcott showed how even cheap reproductions from modest retailers like Pier 1 Imports could become elegant table art with the right touch. He held up a blue fish vase and, before anyone could say it, conceded that everyone in the class probably hated it. Then he put three of them together as the table centerpiece.
"Now it becomes Bernini," Mr. Prestcott said, pleased with himself. "It becomes a fountain. One thing finds another. It is not just a fish. It is a statement of mass and subject."
In a lecture that was part Dalai Lama and part Robin Leach, he admonished the class not to make centerpieces into hedges or to use too-skimpy napkins or to seat ex-spouses together, all the while extolling the dinner table's central role in "the ceremony of life."
"The table is a forum," Mr. Prestcott said. "It is where you present who you are, what you've learned, what is important to you, your way of living."
That is why, he said, no table, however humble or how tough the times, should go without a little artistry. "Even on your non-Queen Elizabeth, Cousin Betty table, you want to keep a certain symmetry and neatness about it," he said.
Over all, however, the weekend was devoted to lighter, more healthful cooking, and students were taught how to cook with less fat, using vinegars and chilis and herbs to bring out the flavor.
"There is rice vinegar, balsamic vinegar, tarragon vinegar, imported white-wine vinegar and raspberry vinegar, which you can easily make at home," said Mark Baker, executive chef at the Chicago Four Seasons Hotel.
Within minutes, the kitchen took on the scent of vinegar and raspberries coming to a boil, nearly ready to be stored in earthenware a couple of weeks before being bottled. At the same time, a salmon fillet was ready after 10 minutes in a dime-store bamboo steamer over tarragon and ginger in water, without an ounce of butter or oil.
And in another kitchen, Mr. Ogden was instructing students on such things as the best way to dress a tossed salad.
"Most people season the center instead of the whole," Mr. Ogden said. He told them to oil the inside of the bowl rather than the lettuce and to "work from the bottom. Toss lightly until the leaves are evenly coated."
Karen Santucci, a first-grade teacher from Rochester, was taking notes as if she were in a calculus class, afraid to do too much dicing of vegetables because she might miss something.
"I didn't come here to chop and mash," Ms. Santucci said. "I can always chop and mash at home."
She grew up watching her Italian grandmother make pasta from scratch and decided, recession or no, to take the leap and treat herself to a dream weekend as a present to herself.
"I don't drink or smoke," Ms. Santucci said. "I don't drive a fancy car. I've never been one to whip out the Visa card and spend on just anything. But this is something that makes me smile."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Baker, executive chef at the Chicago Four Seasons Hotel, teaches students how to make sashimi tuna spring rolls, left. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FSH (TSX) (55%); FS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND WINE (MAGAZINE); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS LTD; FOUR SEASONS HOTEL (CHICAGO) FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND WINE (MAGAZINE); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS LTD; FOUR SEASONS HOTEL (CHICAGO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS RESTAURANTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); CHIROPRACTIC (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (66%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; OGDEN, BRADLEY MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



513 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: There's Still Time to Save U.S. Shipbuilding

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Those who want to know how committed Congress and the Bush Administration are to saving United States manufacturing and American jobs will get their answer when a bill designed to end the foreign subsidies that are annihilating an important American industry goes to the floor of the House of Representatives.
This is H.R. 2056, the shipbuilding trade reform bill. Introduced a year ago by Congresman Sam Gibbons of Florida, it was first intended to give an incentive to industrialized countries engaged in multilateral trade talks to quit stalling and terminate their subsidies for shipbuilding and repair that have shut United States shipyards out of the commercial ship construction market in the last 10 years. When that objective failed, the bill became a piece of legislation to be taken seriously in its own right. 
 What H.R. 2056 does is make shipbuilding and repair subsidies illegal under United States trade law. Although subsidies connected with construction or repair of ships in the current fleet would be grandfathered, subsidies provided after the date of the bill's enactment would have to be repaid before the ships concerned could dock in United States ports. Once a country signs an agreement with the United States to terminate its shipbuilding repair subsidies, the requirement goes away.
In addition, H.R. 2056 defines a ship as a product subject to the same trade laws as airplanes, trains, trucks and other manufactured goods, thereby ending the special exemption enjoyed only by shipowners that allows them to take advantage of dumped ships without penalty.
Despite strong opposition from ship owners and operators, H.R. 2056 has undergone the unusual procedure of being scrutinized and approved by two House committees, first by Ways and Means and then by Merchant Marine and Fisheries.
No doubt, the reputation of Sam Gibbons has helped to keep this tough trade bill from being buried. It is difficult to label the legislation as "protectionist" when it was introduced by a Representative with impeccable antiprotectionist credentials, who is a staunch advocate of free and fair trade.
Another reason the bill has gotten so far is that the subsidies case is compelling. In no manufacturing industry in the world today is the evidence of direct government intervention to capture market share so clear and irrefutable as in foreign shipbuilding. Government support policies in the 1980's allowed shipyards in Japan, South Korea and Europe to charge ship prices that covered as little as 45 percent of production costs. There have been examples of commercial ship construction subsidies as high as 60 percent of contract price. Foreign shipbuilding subsidies still distort the market.
Is it any wonder then that United States shipyards -- which had their subsidies cut off in 1981 -- were forced out of the commercial ship construction market? One-third of American shipbuilding capacity was shut down, and 120,000 American shipyard and shipyard-supplier jobs were lost. Now the situation is even more critical. With the end of the cold war, the United States Navy does not require a sufficient number of new ships to keep American yards in business. Consequently, it is projected that by 1998, 180,000 more Americans working in United States shipyards and related supplier industries will lose their jobs.
Unfortunately, ship owners and operators, who are fighting to retain construction and repair subsidies for their ships, have generated fears that H.R. 2056 will harm other American business segments (such as the ports), despite the lack of evidence.
However, there is plenty of evidence that other segments of the American economy would be harmed by the loss of the American shipbuilding industry, which includes more than 1,000 associated shipyard supplier companies. This is not hyperbole. It is the grim reality that passage of H.R. 2056 can avert.
 
JOHN STOCKER
President
Shipbuilders Council of America
Arlington, Va., April 3, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SHIPBUILDERS COUNCIL OF AMERICA UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHIPBUILDERS COUNCIL OF AMERICA

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FEDERAL AID (US) SHIPBUILDING (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (70%); FISHERIES (69%); APPROVALS (65%); MARKET SHARE (60%); 

PERSON: STOCKER, JOHN; GIBBONS, SAM (REPR)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



514 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Why Economists Shun Deficit Spending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your March 31 Business Day report that some economists now favor an increase in the Federal deficit to stimulate the economy misstates why many economists continue to resist this traditional Keynesian prescription. They do not believe that deficit spending, "by putting more money into circulation, increases inflation."
That is an Eisenhower-era view, which few economists still hold, if only because Government borrowing does not put money into circulation and because inflation is seen as fundamentally a result of excessive money creation by the Federal Reserve. 
 Many economists oppose more deficit spending now because they recognize that, despite all the gloom, the recession is shallow and is gradually correcting itself. They doubt that Government can quickly crank uptargeted public investment projects. Every one of the 435 Congressional districts will have to get something. Worse, they fear such spending will build gradually, even as the private sector acquires momentum, and that it will be impossible to moderate or stop the new Federal spending and avoid overheating the economy.
Finally, interest payments on the deficit pre-empt future decisions on how to regulate fiscal policy and allocate the resources available to the Government. In this sense of foreclosed opportunities, the next generation will have to pay for today's deficit spending.
 
EDWARD COWAN
Washington, April 2, 1992
 
The writer is with Ried, Thunberg & Company, investment researchers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NATIONAL DEBT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: COWAN, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



515 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Nobody Migrates for Better Welfare Benefits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
According to an article on the Albany legislative impasse on the state budget (March 23), officials were "arguing about measures aimed at deterring people from moving to New York to qualify for welfare benefits."
This myth stems from a supposition that poor people calculate the marginal increase in their standard of living that life in New York's poor neighborhoods might bring about and voluntarily pull their children out of school, cut off their relationships with friends and family, and move to the promised land represented by this recession-ridden state. 
 In 1969, similar criticisms were made of New York City's welfare administration at a time when welfare rolls were mounting. The Federal Government sent a team of researchers to determine the accuracy of the assertions that such increases in public assistanace claims were due to migration sparked by the lure of munificent welfare benefits.
The researchers found no such evidence. They determined that some migrant families applied for assistance about a year after they arrived, after a period in which they tried to make it on their own in the difficult economic climate of the city.
Legislative action to reduce welfare benefits is as shortsighted as it is cruel. Reduction of benefits for children of families on public assistance will destroy the fragile nutritional foundation they need to lead healthy lives as children and later as adults. We will be paying for these reductions for the rest of their lives with early results becoming evident in reduced school attendance and lowered school performance.
If we increase the desperation in the lives of adults on welfare, we will pay for it in increased homelessness, higher Medicaid bills for sicker people and increases in the costs of courts, police and corrections.
I believe we are witnessing an effort by some politicians to throw off responsibility for the recession and their failure to do much to help its victims onto the victims themselves. They are not supported by economic fact, but by self-serving fictions which are the product of racial and class bias.
 
LOUIS LEVITT
Prof. of Social Work, Yeshiva U.
New York, April 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); RESEARCH INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); 

PERSON: LEVITT, LOUIS (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



516 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Albany Blunders in Cut To Child-Care Funds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Cutting Title XX funds from the New York State budget is a clear example of the penny-wise, pound-foolish thinking that went on in Albany during state budget negotiations.
Title XX is one of the most successful programs the state has financed. In New York a significant portion is used for subsidized child care. It keeps the working poor working and off welfare. Single working mothers, who benefit most from these funds, will lose the most from this cut. Without Title XX, day care for these families will become unaffordable. Counties have been mandated by the Governor to shoulder the burden of the state's share of these funds. How they will do this, given their own fiscal woes, remains to be seen. 
 The Title XX cut may also have a domino effect. If the state cannot demonstrate to the Federal Government a maintenance of effort in paying for day care, New York will lose all or part of its share of the $2.5 billion in new Federal child care money. Subsidized child care more than pays for itself.
To cut Title XX funds when the recession is swelling the ranks of families who need to stay employed, shows fiscal absurdity, not fiscal responsibility.
 
HOWARD MILBERT
Executive Director
Ossining Children's Center
Ossining, N.Y., April 3, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (91%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILD CARE; DAY CARE CENTERS BUDGETS (92%); CHILD CARE (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%); 

PERSON: MILBERT, HOWARD

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



517 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Fly Now, Pay Later

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
WANT to jet round trip to Hawaii for just $149? No problem. Just book 45 days in advance, stay over one Tuesday that is not a legal holiday anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere and complete travel in a month with fewer than 29 days. . . .
American Airlines' bold move to simplify fares and slash the margins between discounted and unrestricted seats is winning applause from both business travelers and computer-bleary travel agents. But their enthusiasm may be tempered by the prospect of less competition and higher prices in the future. 
 For in the view of some analysts -- notably, Michael Levine, the former president of New York Airways who is now dean of Yale's School of Organization and Management -- it could give American a commanding edge over weaker rivals. And it will almost certainly unhinge the survival strategies of the very weakest, perhaps pushing Continental and T.W.A. past the point of no return.
Like it or not, most airlines have followed American's move from 16 or 17 fares per route to four. Fares for unrestricted seats in both the front and back of the plane have been cut sharply -- one-way coach from New York to Chicago, for example, is down from $427 to $250. And the hodgepodge of discounts has been rationalized to just two advance purchase options with obligatory Saturday stayovers.
The biggest winners are the minority of business travelers who cannot plan ahead, but lack the muscle to negotiate special deals with individual carriers. The changes should also eliminate some headaches for the airlines, which have been losing the battle to make posted prices stick.
With unrestricted coach fares down 38 percent, Daniel Kasper, an airline consultant at the Harbridge House firm in Massachusetts, predicts that few corporate buyers will bother to press for better deals. And few penny-pinching business travelers will bother to play games with restricted fares -- evading the Saturday stayover rule, for example, by purchasing two deeply discounted round trips and tearing up the return portions.
There is a darker side, though, to what is widely viewed as a strategic coup by Robert L. Crandall, the hard-driving chief executive of American who has exploited the airline's size and technological edge with the finesse of a sumo champion. By eliminating incentives for corporate discounts, virtually all bookings should end up at posted fares. And Michael Levine argues that "American does best when all the cards are played face up."
The giant carrier owns Sabre, the most successful of the computerized airline reservation systems. It will thus reap a modest windfall from writing more tickets for other carriers. Then, too, the cut in off-computer bookings and the simplification of the fare structure will make it almost impossible for other carriers to undercut American's fares without being discovered.
But these are marginal considerations, Mr. Levine suggests, compared with the blunter competitive effects of the new pricing formula. Mr. Crandall acknowledges that American will take an initial hit on revenues from the dilution of fares. But what is merely painful for American and its deep-pockets rivals, Delta Air Lines and United, could prove crippling to financially pressed Northwest and USAir. And it is likely to put both T.W.A. and Continental in the intensive care unit.
The consequences for these latter two carriers, Mr. Levine argues, may be even more dire than they initially appear. For both have been using pricing strategies that exploited travelers' frustrations with sky-high unrestricted fares.
T.W.A. has been luring passengers who lacked access to corporate discounts by selling unrestricted tickets at steep discounts to full fare. Continental has played a variation on the same game, seating those who paid full-fare coach in the first-class compartment. T.W.A. has already responded to the American initiative by cutting unrestricted fares yet again, further diluting potential revenues. And Continental is between a rock and a hard place: First class at the competitive coach rate now means far less income for the beleagured carrier.
How one stands on the fare changes largely depends on where one sits. Mr. Crandall makes no secret of his disgust with a bankruptcy system that forces American to compete with deeply indebted airlines that need not make interest payments to keep on flying. He believes that the technology and economics of the business leave room for only three healthy airlines operating nationwide -- a scenario that would ground Northwest and USAir, as well as Continental or T.W.A.
Effective price competition on virtually all routes may still be possible with just three or four mega-carriers. But it remains a scary scenario for deregulation-minded economists, who always assumed that competition would be guarded by the relative ease of entry into the airline industry.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
The Economic Scene column in Business Day on Wednesday misidentified the company once headed by Michael Levine. He was president of New York Air, an airline that served many cities from LaGuardia Airport before it went out of business, not of New York Airways, which provided helicopter service in the metropolitan area.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FARES AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (89%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); MARTIAL ARTS (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



518 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Schools Cope With Influx of Immigrants

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The huddled masses keep pouring into New York City's schools, infusing them with immigrant ambition and novel folkways but also overloading classrooms and straining the budget and the teaching staff.
An annual report issued yesterday by the Board of Education showed that about 120,000 immigrants from 167 countries had enrolled in the city's schools over the past three years, pushing the system's student population close to the million mark. This year's influx of 43,268 immigrants is greater than the 40,845 that enrolled in the 1990-91 school year, and even more than the 35,600 in the 1989-90 school year, indicating that the trend is nowhere near abating. 
 Robin Willner, the board's director of strategic planning, compared the tide to the immigrant waves of the turn of the century and the period after World War I when New York City's classrooms were brimming with Jewish and Italian immigrants who frustrated their teachers with their halting English and unfamiliar customs, but brought with them a vast reservoir of desire and hope.
 
Stretching a Shrinking Budget
 "There's a self-selection process for people who have been through incredible difficulties and they bring a lot of drive and determination," she said. "But these are also youngsters who have been through a lot of tumult and they are usually limited in English proficiency and going through differences in culture, and we need to provide services to make that transition easier."
Despite a shrinking budget, the board must find and pay for more bilingual teachers and teachers of English as a second language. It already has more than 5,200 such teachers, about 8 percent of its staff, and has had difficulty finding more, particularly for immigrant groups like Albanians, who have not historically been well represented in the city. The cost of immigrant language programs is $130.6 million a year, most of it paid with Federal and state money.
Many of the immigrants come from countries where education may not be compulsory for as many years as it is in the United States; New York City's teachers often must work with students who are illiterate even in their native languages. Ms. Willner said students also bring with them attitudes toward their teachers' authority and to class participation that are in sharp contrast to the more freewheeling customs of the United States.
The school board is also squeezed for classroom space. It has a $4.3 billion program for constructing new buildings and renovating old ones, but much of the program has been scaled back in the city's fiscal crunch.
 
Classes in Auditoriums
 Of the 120,000 students who have immigrated during the past three years, 23,000 are from the Dominican Republic, 10,000 from Jamaica, 8,000 from Russia and the former Soviet Union, 7,000 from Guyana, 7,000 from China, 6,000 from Haiti, 4,800 from Trinidad and 4,200 from Mexico.
One elementary school, P.S. 19 in Elmhurst, in Queens School District 24, has 2,100 students from 45 different countries and is so crowded that it equals the size of many high schools, which draw from far larger geographical zones.
John Falco, the district's deputy superintendent, told of classrooms in other schools in his district that are held on auditorium stages or in assistant principals' offices. One classroom with 45 students is taught simultaneously by two teachers in order not to violate the union contract.
Carlos Ledee, the district's bilingual director, said the district had enough Spanish, Chinese and Korean students to form bilingual classes of at least 20 on a grade. Students from Eastern Europe and other countries with small representations are assigned to regular classes and pulled out for 45 minutes each day for instruction in English as a second language.
 
2d-Generation Challenges
 The district, which includes Elmhurst, Corona, Maspeth, Ridgewood and Woodside, is getting two new schools and additions to another five.
"Our immigrant population is terrific," Mr. Falco said. "Without getting overly maudlin, it's more or less the way my family arrived in this country a generation or so ago. You have industrious people who come to this country for all the benefits our family came for -- freedom and economic prosperity -- with children eager to learn."
Dr. Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning at New York University, suggests that things may get tougher before they get better. Many of the immigrant couples who are bringing children will be bearing more children and many of the children they already have may be approaching child-bearing age themselves. All this promises a mushrooming in the numbers of second-generation children and the challenges they pose.
Mr. Tobier said that while hard-driving immigrants may find success among the city's employers, he wondered whether the children of those immigrants may lose some of their hunger to learn in schools that are overcrowded and underfinanced.


GRAPHIC: About two-thirds of the 120,000 immigrant children who have entered the New York City public school system in the past three years, including this school year, are from the 11 countries.

 	 	Dominican Republic	23,000	Jamaica	10,000	Russia	8,000	Guyana	7,000	China	7,000	Haiti	6,000	Trinidad	4,800	Mexico	4,200	Ecuador	3,800	Colombia	3,700	Korea	3,600	
 
(Source: New York City Public Schools)
Graph: "Education: Immigrants in Class"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ALBANIA (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ALBANIA (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; BILINGUAL EDUCATION IMMIGRATION (92%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (64%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (54%); WORLD WAR I (53%); 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH EMANUEL TOBIER (56%); JOHN FALCO (56%); ROBIN WILLNER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1992



519 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Topless Bars For a Crowd In Pin Stripes

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
AFTER a long day at work, Richard Siegel, a lawyer in his late 30's, likes to unwind with a cool beer, a little music and a circle of topless young women with cash stuffed in their garters.
"Hey, this is elegant -- it's not sleazy," he said, referring to Stringfellows, a nightclub in the staid Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan that was popular in the 1980's and recently reopened with semi-nude dancers. "You can bring a date here and not give a bad impression." 
 Posh strip clubs like Stringfellows, with their coat-and-tie dress codes and $15 cover charges, have been opening with an astonishing frequency in the past few years. About 1,100 "quality" topless clubs now exist in 47 states, up from about 800 in 45 states five years ago, according to Gentlemen's Club magazine in Austin, Tex., a trade magazine for the $3 billion-a-year topless industry. New Jersey has the most, 110, followed by Texas, Florida, Pennsylvania and New York.
"A lot of people have realized that the yuppies will pay top dollar if the atmosphere is right," said Kevin King, publisher of Gentlemen's Club.
Unlike the dark dives of years past, today's clubs make 80's features like topless female boxers and mud wrestlers seem declasse. Some clubs, like Stringfellows, have high-priced menus and a faux-Folies-Bergere ambiance; the dancers peel off sequined evening gowns.
A few, like Scores, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, bill themselves as topless sports bars, where customers who get bored looking at bare breasts can shoot baskets or watch hockey on a wide-screen television.
Others, like the Gold Club in Atlanta, the Men's Club in Houston or Cabaret Royale in Dallas, have amenities like valet parking, limousines, shuttle buses, executive dining rooms and fax-outfitted conference rooms, not to mention topless women who shine shoes and perform secretarial duties.
"What topless is doing is replacing disco in America," said D. Keith Mano, a writer who conducted 300 interviews over 10 years for his novel "Topless" (Random House, 1991). "What it is getting closer to is a kind of burlesque atmosphere."
The trend toward elegant topless clubs, which started in Canada a decade ago before spreading to Florida and Texas, may be attributed, at least in part, to novelty. Other factors include the fear of singles bars in the age of AIDS. But Jay O. Bildstein, a Manhattan investment banker who opened Scores late last year, thinks he has identified the real source of the boom: "This business has nothing to do with sex; it is about loneliness and low self-esteem," he said. "If anyone is being exploited it is the men, the guys buying into the fantasy of she really likes me."
Even so, the recent appeal of top-drawer topless bars comes at a curious time, especially considering the ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States last year in Barnes v. Glen Theater, which gave localities the right to ban the baring of female nipples unless they are covered with flesh-colored makeup and liquid latex, which is how pasties are concocted these days.
Campaigns to ban topless bars are being fought in towns across the country. In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Michael J. Peter, who manages Stringfellows and who owns or operates 23 other high-priced topless bars in several states, has estimated that he has spent $2 million in the past 18 months on lawyers to keep his clubs open. The legal expenses are a trifle, though, as are the tens of thousands of dollars that his clubs give, for public-relations purposes, to local charities each year. Mr. Peter's own clubs, located in Florida, Minnesota, South Carolina, Hawaii and Texas, can easily gross $30,000 to $100,000 a week each in alcohol sales alone.
"What you see here is the entertainment night life of the 90's," said Mr. Peter, who graduated from Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration and is widely credited with applying modern marketing techniques (like selling trading cards featuring his topless dancers) to what had been considered a seedy, small-time business.
Many women understandably believe that the bars exploit women. "They are demeaning and degrading to women and treat them like sex objects," said Caia M. Mockaitis, a spokeswoman for Concerned Women of America, an advocacy group in Washington. "All they do is foster an unhealthy relationship between men and women."
Not all women share this view. Many dancers say their work is no more exploitative than most other forms of employment. Besides, they say, by dancing in a G-string they can earn in one night's tips as much as they could in a month in many other jobs.
"I can make $1,000 a night or more, if I really work at it," said Tara Obenauer, 21, of Massapequa, L.I., who dances at Stringfellows and graduated from Adelphi University last year. "I was supposed to start law school at N.Y.U. in January, but I put it off for awhile," she said. "The money here is just so good."
No studies exist about topless dancing, but Mr. Mano, the author, estimates that 250,000 women in American have danced topless professionally at one time in their lives.
To be sure, some men view topless dancing with disdain. "It's one more example of where voyeurism has replaced committed sexuality," said Robert H. Knight, director of the Cultural Studies Project at the Family Research Council, a research organization in Washington.
"It portrays women as objects merely for men's fancies," he said, "and it helps create the kind of world in which you fear for your daughters walking down the street and not being seen as a person, but as an outlet for someone's fantasies."
Male customers, for the most part, seem oblivious to the politics of topless dancing. "Of course it's sexist -- if you worry about that," said Jim Watson, who lives in Manhattan and recently visited Stringfellows a second time.
Female patrons can also be found at topless clubs, although they account for only a smattering of the audience, regardless of what some club owners claim. "It's modern art," said Teeney L. Lee, 27, a real-estate agent from Flushing, Queens, who visited Stringfellows recently. "They are beautiful women, but I would like to see male dancers in here as well."
At Stringfellows and many of the bars, the dancers also work between sets, slithering seductively from table to table. "Would you like a dance after your dinner, sir?" they inquire.
For $20, a woman will strip at a customer's table; it's called "table dancing." Then, there is "lap dancing" in which a dancer strips within touching distance of a customer -- who must keep his hands to himself. The service usually ends with the dancer sitting in the customer's lap. Tips for both stage and private dances are usually proffered by tucking a bill or two under the woman's garter. Dancers are not permitted to make dates or meet with customers after work.
Though topless clubs are being aggressively promoted as ideal places for business lunches and meetings, it can be dangerous for a male executive to entertain female clients or colleagues there. It could lead to a sexual harassment complaint.
"If I were a person setting up a policy for a company, in the frame of today's anger on sexual harassment, I would completely forbid any company activity taking place in these establishments," said Wendy Reid Crisp, the director of the National Association for Female Executives.
She added that the apparent popularity of the bars may be part of the male backlash against social, economic and political gains made by women. "Men want to feel that they are back in control, in a relationship between the sexes that they understand," she said. "They feel extremely threatened by the issues of sexual violence and harassment. They are desperately trying to reestablish a masculinity that is familiar to them."
The clubs themselves are trying to establish respectability. To lure out-of-towners, Stringfellows, for example, intends to apply for membership in the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Said Rob Abner, publisher of Stripper Magazine, a three-year-old trade magazine in Manhattan, "There is a much more increased tolerance these days -- look at television and the tabloids. Even though most people think things have become more conservative, this kind of entertainment has actually become more common."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Living Section on April 15 about luxurious topless clubs misstated the number of topless bars in the United States aimed at a white-collar clientele. It is 50 t0 60; the total number of topless bars is 1,100.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Stringfellows, Steven Keene, left, and Steven Korn, with a dancer. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (75%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: STRINGFELLOW'S (TOPLESS BAR); SCORES (TOPLESS BAR)

ORGANIZATION: STRINGFELLOW'S (TOPLESS BAR); SCORES (TOPLESS BAR)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (75%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; NUDISM AND NUDITY DRINKING PLACES (90%); WOMEN (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); DANCERS (75%); MEN (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (70%); ATHLETES (69%); WRESTLING (65%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK MICHAEL J PETER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



520 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 25; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Office Space In Houston: Plenty of It

BYLINE: By Lettice Stuart

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
THE Apache Corporation, which signed a lease for 220,000 square feet of office space here last November -- in the largest office lease transaction completed in Houston in 1991 -- is now relocating its corporate headquarters here from Denver.
The move by Apache, the country's fourth-largest independent oil and gas producer, gave rise to optimism here. It came as part of the steady rebound of the Houston office market since 1987, when a drop in oil prices sent the city's office vacancy rate soaring to 30 percent. Today the vacancy rate is 22.5 percent. 
 Now, however, another shakeout in the energy industry is slowing that progress. Continued low oil and gas prices, as well as restrictive regulations, are forcing some major energy concerns to shut down domestic exploration and production and shift operations overseas. That translates into vacant office space in Houston, where many of the companies have consolidated in recent years.
"There's no question that the office market is being affected by cutbacks in the energy industry and the national economy," said Edward H. Cappel, senior vice president of the CB Commercial Real Estate Group Inc. During the first quarter of this year the amount of empty office space in Houston actually increased by 106,000 square feet, Mr. Cappel said.
Cutbacks at just two companies -- the Transco Energy Company and Union Texas Petroleum -- will soon add more than 700,000 square feet to the city's inventory of 30 million square feet of empty office space.
To compound the problem, several companies that are doing well have decided on new construction to fill their expansion needs. Three high-rise office buildings with a total of nearly 1.4 million square feet are under construction for major tenants that will leave behind blocks of empty space in other buildings when they move.
The Anadarko Petroleum Corporation will occupy 306,000 square feet of a 452,000-square-foot building being developed in North Houston by the Friendswood Development Company. The 19-story Anadarko Tower is scheduled for completion in June.
British Petroleum Exploration Inc., will occupy 430,000 square feet in the 20-story, 588,000-square-foot BP Plaza when it is completed late this year. That project is on Interstate 10 in West Houston. The Barker-Patrinely Group is the developer.
And BMC Software is building a 20-story, 475,000-square-foot headquarters building in West Houston. It is scheduled for completion in late 1993.
But, according to Mr. Cappel, the office market will pick up through the remainder of the year and end on a positive note with a net absorption of about 1.8 million square feet. Absorption is an increase in occupancy that reduces the city's total inventory of available office space.
When the major oil companies pull out, independent energy concerns like Apache will move in, Mr. Cappel predicted. "But that doesn't happen overnight," he said. "It takes time for companies to shut down their operations and sell off their oil and gas properties."
Apache decided to move its corporate headquarters to Houston last year after acquiring an Amoco subsidiary that owned a large amount of oil and gas properties in the Gulf Coast area, Jeanne Buchanan, Apach e's director of corporate communications, said. The move is intended to get management closer to operations.
Apache will occupy 14 floors of the 20-story 1 Post Oak Central building in the Galleria area. Some tenants in the Post Oak building were relocated to open up the necessary space, but a large chunk of the building had been vacant for several years, said Tim D. Relyea, executive vice president of Cushman Realty, who handled the lease transaction, along with Scott Wegmann.
The space has been completely gutted, and Apache is moving employees in as floors are built out. Apache will relocate 125 employees from Denver and hire additional staff in Houston for a total work force of 450, Ms. Buchanan said. Apache currently occupies 145,000 square feet of space in 1 United Bank Center in downtown Denver.
Mr. Relyea also recently leased 70,000 square feet of space in 1 Allen Center downtown to the Phibro Energy Company, a large oil trader that is relocating its corporate offices to Houston from Greenwich, Conn.
But despite such positive signs, Mr. Relyea does not see the current problem in the oil patch as short term. He said office rents had already started to decline in the central business district and the Galleria area, the two areas with the greatest concentration of office space.
According to a survey by the Kerr Resource Center, the average rental rate for office space in the central business district, which has 41 million square feet of office space, is $15.75 a square foot. The average rate in the Galleria area, which has 33 million square feet of office space, is $13.85. Both areas have a vacancy rate of 21.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: APA (NYSE) (96%); APC (NYSE) (84%); BP (NYSE) (72%); BP (LSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (68%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (67%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (63%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: APACHE CORP (96%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (84%); BP PLC (72%); CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (68%); TRANSCO ENERGY CO (67%); FRIENDSWOOD DEVELOPMENT CO (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOUSTON (TEX) UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); 

PERSON: STUART, LETTICE DAVID DAVIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1992



521 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: $44 BILLION NEEDED TO AID EX-SOVIETS IN 1992, I.M.F. SAYS

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund said today that the former Soviet Union would need $44 billion in foreign aid this year to help insure that the transition to a market economy does not break down.
In presenting the fund's first official estimate of the needs of Russia and the 14 other republics, Michel Camdessus, the I.M.F.'s managing director, confirmed an estimate by the United States and Germany that Russia required about $24 billion and said the 14 other republics would need about $20 billion more in outside help this year. 
 Most of this would be for financing crucial imports like food and spare parts.
Indeed, I.M.F. officials said the 130 million people of the 14 other republics, including the three Baltic nations -- Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania -- would need more aid to finance imports than the 150 million people of Russia.
 
Exports Help Russia
 Russia's financing needs are smaller, the officials said, because it has traditionally been a large exporter of oil, natural gas and machinery, while most of the other republics, which were never large exporters, import most of their energy needs.
At a news conference at the International Monetary Fund's headquarters here, Mr. Camdessus said that over the next four years, the lands of the former Soviet Union would need more than $100 billion in outside aid from the I.M.F., the World Bank, the governments of industrial nations and private investors.
He estimated that the I.M.F. would provide $25 billion to $30 billion in loans over the next four years and that the World Bank would lend $12 billion to $15 billion.
American officials said the Group of Seven nations, already discussing aid to the 14 republics other than Russia, have identified where more than half of the $20 billion needed this year would come from.
 
Aid From Europe and Others
 They said the United States, the European Community countries and other industrial nations were talking about providing $7 billion in direct government-to-government aid, including $500 million in commodity credits promised by President Bush.
The I.M.F. and the World Bank are expected to provide $2 billion to $3 billion in aid. Then there is $3 billion more coming from the deferral of principal and interest payments on the republics' foreign debts.
"The magnitude of the problems facing the 15 republics is unprecedented," Mr. Camdessus said. "They go far beyond what is generally understood by the concept of economic transformation. These peoples are creating new nations, from scratch and in a very brief period."
The amount that Mr. Camdessus said was needed for the former Soviet lands this year dwarfs aid to most other countries. The total foreign aid budget of the United States is about $15 billion a year. The I.M.F.'s current aid package to India, which has 850 million people, is $1.65 billion.
Early this month, President Bush and Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany announced the aid package for Russia, including $18 billion to help finance imports and $6 billion for a ruble-stabilization fund.
Today, though, Mr. Camdessus said he was unsure when large-scale aid would begin flowing to the former Soviet republics.
"They face serious obstacles," he said in further remarks tonight, at a speech at Georgetown University. "There will be setbacks, time and time again. We must help make the move to freedom irreversible."
Mr. Camdessus said he hoped the I.M.F.'s 156 members would vote to approve membership of Russia and 13 other republics in the fund in time for the fund's spring meeting on April 27. He said Azerbaijan's membership application had been delayed by a snag in communications with Baku, that republic's capital.
Mr. Camdessus said fund officials would go to Moscow in May to negotiate an agreement calling on Russia to make market-oriented reforms and meet certain economic goals in the hope that major aid would begin flowing in July.
Such agreements with other republics would probably be signed later in the summer, opening the doors to I.M.F. loans. Direct government aid and debt rescheduling are often contingent on the signing of an I.M.F. agreement.
 
A Sense of Urgency
 "Can these countries wait so long?" Mr. Camdessus said. "I hope so. They are under a tremendous financial squeeze, and the sooner the program is in place, the better."
Mr. Camdessus predicted that in several years the former Soviet republics would begin enjoying economic growth of a robust 4 percent a year, after last year's 17 percent plunge in output.
Mr. Camdessus said the recent clash between the reform team of President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and a Parliament hostile to rapid change was to be expected and was a healthy development that could help create a consensus in Russia on reform.
With the I.M.F. stepping up its negotiations with the 15 republics, Mr. Camdessus sought to prod them to faster reforms, calling on them to remove price controls, remove trade barriers, privatize state enterprises and slash their budget deficits to prevent hyperinflation. He also called on them to adapt laws and institutions to enable a market economy to function.
Because the transition to a market economy and lifting of price controls is creating trauma in the already poor republics, he called for greater effort to protect the poor.
"The need for adequate social safety nets is greatest when society is undergoing far-reaching upheavals, which is now," he said.
Mr. Camdessus said the I.M.F. would be more generous in aiding republics that are more aggressive in embracing reform. "The stronger the program, the stronger the financing will be," he said.
He acknowledged, though, that it would be the unwise for the I.M.F. to push countries to move too rapidly with reforms because the pain they cause could set off a popular explosion that would end reforms. Poland's Prime Minister, for instance, was in Washington this week to talk with the I.M.F. about a reform program that many Poles believe is too harsh.
Mr. Camdessus said that in light of the heavy financing demands that the former Soviet Union and many developing countries are making on the fund, it was important for the I.M.F.'s funding to be increased. The failure of the United States to approve an additional $12 billion contribution is holding up a planned overall $60 billion increase in the I.M.F.'s capital.
After months of not pressing the issue, the Bush administration has stepped up its call on Congress to approve this contribution.
"The vote by the U.S. Congress is absolutely critical," Mr. Camdessus said.
President Bush has said the United States will finance about one-fifth of the $24 billion in aid to Russia, but American and I.M.F. officials say it is too early to specify how much the United States or any other country will contribute toward the $20 billion needed by the other 14 republics. The United States says it will contribute $2 billion in direct aid to the Russian Government, mostly credits for it to buy grain from American farmers.
The United States has about a 19 percent share in both the I.M.F. and the World Bank, and thus will indirectly finance 19 percent of the money those institutions lend to the former Soviets republics. But because of those loans will be repaid and because the United States contributed this money to the I.M.F. years ago, the costs are not really felt by American taxpayers. And since the United States holds very little of the more than $60 billion in debt that Russia is seeking to defer, debt rescheduling will have little effect on the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michel Camdessus, I.M.F. managing director, at news session. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); BALTIC STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); INDIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES; RUSSIA (RUSSIAN REPUBLIC); GERMANY RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); BALTIC STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); INDIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ; CAMDESSUS, MICHEL GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



522 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
THE $44 BILLION ANSWER
The International Monetary Fund said the former Soviet Union would need $44 billion in foreign aid this year to insure a transition to a market economy. The fund's managing director confirmed that Russia would need $24 billion. A1
The Russian Government and Parliament muted their conflict. A9
 
CRACKING DOWN ON LIBYA
Air traffic between Libya and the rest of the world appeared to be at a standstill as both Arab and non-Arab nations began enforcing the Security Council embargo. Countries also began to expel dozens of Libyan diplomats as part of the effort to force Colonel Qaddafi to hand over two suspects in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. A1
 
THE MAN BEIJING FEARS
The horrors Han Dongfang experienced in prison are not remarkable. What is remarkable is that the democracy campaigner talks about his experience and risks it again. He is the Chinese Government's worst nightmare: a man who is less afraid of it than it is of him. A1
 
VANCE TRIES FOR PEACE, AGAIN
The United Nations special envoy urged Serbian leaders to suspend their military actions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As he spoke, units of the Serb-led Yugoslav Army continued their assaults on Muslim Slav and Croatian areas. A1
The United States warned Belgrade to stop its attacks. A8
 
WINNIE MANDELA STEPS DOWN
The embattled official of the African National Congress resigned under pressure from her influential post as head of social welfare in the congress. The move came two days after the announcement of her formal separation from her husband, the congress president. A6
 
NEW CONCERN OVER IRAN
Teheran has stirred concern among its Persian Gulf neighbors by expelling Arab inhabitants of an island in the gulf that it jointly administers with the United Arab Emirates, officials in gulf nations said. A7
 
CLOSING IN ON KABUL
Two rebel groups said they had captured a major Government air base north of the capital of Afghanistan. A provincial capital fell Tuesday, and reports said President Najibullah might have gone into hiding. A5
 
Peru's President Fujimori lives up to his nickname, the Emperor. A3
North Korea partly lifts the secrecy from its nuclear projects. A3
 
National A12-21, B6-7
 
A STRIKE ENDED, A UNION HUMBLED
News analysis: The abrupt end of the strike against Caterpillar showed that management could bring even so powerful a union as the United Automobile Workers to its knees by threatening to hire permanent replacement workers. A1
Even with the strike over, many are not assured a job. B6
 
NEW LOS ANGELES POLICE CHIEF
A year after officers' widely publicized beating of a black motorist had intensified racial discord in Los Angeles, the city chose the Police Commissioner of Philadelphia to replace Chief Daryl F. Gates. The appointee, Willie L. Williams, will be Los Angeles's first black Police Chief, although exactly when he will take office is unclear. A1
Man in the News: Willie Lawrence Williams. B7
 
CHICAGO FLOODING CONTINUES
Heavy rain frustrated Chicago's efforts to stem the flooding of many downtown buildings, although the Mercantile Exchange held regular trading for the first time this week and the Chicago Board of Trade reopened for a short session. A12
 
ANOTHER BREATH OF SCANDAL
A Senate postal employee sold crack on Capitol Hill to an undercover narcotics officer last year. In the annals of Washington's booming cocaine trade, that case might scarcely rate a footnote. But it illustrates for the first time that the Senate, until now untouched by the recent wave of scandal that has damaged the House, is not immune from similar problems. A18
More Republicans are bruised by the House bank affair. A17
 
CLINTON GOES BACK ON THE ROAD
After remaining in Little Rock for a week to nurse strained vocal cords, Governor Clinton campaigned in California, where he all but ignored former Governor Brown and turned his fire on President Bush. A16
So, is Pat Caddell backing Brown, or maybe Perot? A16
Quayle's press secretary called a radio talk show, incognito. A16
In the Bush household, Millie is the big wage earner. A17
 
FALLOUT FROM REAGAN PROTEST
The protester who rushed the stage where Ronald Reagan was speaking on Monday had press credentials, a circumstance now leading the Secret Service to consider tightening its restrictions on reporters who cover Presidents, Vice Presidents and Presidential candidates. A20
 
CHILD AGENCY UNDER ATTACK
A Florida organization has stirred up a storm with a publicity campaign accusing the state's main children's welfare agency of "kidnapping" children in a plot to "undermine parental authority." A14
 
Columbia Journal: For Doolittle's Raiders, a big anniversary. A12
Experts recommended a delay in cloning Lincoln's genes. B6
New evidence was found linking halogen lights to skin cancer. B6
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
POWERFUL UNION HEAD RESIGNS
The head of the most powerful union in the New York region's construction industry resigned before he was to face charges that he had been a pawn of the Gambino crime family and had helped John Gotti extract payoffs from contractors. A1
 
L.I. CAR DEALER HELD IN FRAUD
A Long Island car dealer borrowed $1.75 billion from General Motors last year to finance thousands of cars that did not exist, Federal prosecutors said, and they charged him with fraud. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
The Home Section C1-9
Italian furniture goes all cuddly. C1
Studio! Life style! Empire? C1
At home with John Epperson. C1
Growing C2
Parent & Child C9
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-20
Whose money is being used to fuel Broadway? C11
In line for "Guys and Dolls." C11
Music: Rattle and the Birmingham. C11
Dance: Mark Morris troupe. C11
 
Obituaries B8
 Vakhtang Mikhailovich Chabukiani, a Soviet ballet master.
Sammy Price, a jazz pianist.
 
Sports B9-16
Baseball: Mets beat the Phillies. B9
Yankees fall to the Blue Jays. B9
Basketball: Atlanta hands Knicks a loss. B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
Editorials A22
Overdrafts and overkill.
Iran's vote: little change.
Tiny babies, many risks.
Mary Cantwell: Bad foods.
 
Letters A22
William Safire: The rising gorge. A23
Anthony Lewis: Straight and narrow. A23
Camille Paglia: Endangered rock. A23

GRAPHIC: Photo: Men who raided Tokyo to mark the 50th anniversary. (Associated Press, 1943) A12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CHINA (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); CHINA (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (79%); CROATIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STRIKES (89%); POLICE FORCES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ARMIES (74%); MILITARY BASES (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); BOMBINGS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); 

PERSON: WINNIE MANDELA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



523 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: ISOLATION OF LIBYA GROWS AS ITS LINKS TO WORLD ARE CUT

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 15

 BODY:
Air traffic between Libya and the rest of the world appeared at a standstill today as both Arab and non-Arab countries began enforcing the second major punitive embargo the Security Council has imposed on a United Nations member since the end of the cold war.
Libyan passenger jets were turned back in flight and many countries began expelling diplomats from the North African nation as the sanctions against Tripoli started to take effect. 
 All this put pressure on Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to hand over two suspects in the Pan Am bombing over Scotland in 1988 for trial in Britain or the United States, and to make others available for interrogation by France in connection with the destruction of a French airliner over West Africa in 1989.
 
Arab Nations Comply
 Libya's Arab neighbors generally appeared to be cooperating with the air embargo, as flights were canceled across the Middle East. Libyan travelers and foreigners working in the country were reported flooding into neighboring Egypt and Tunisia by road in search of planes to foreign destinations.
The measures being taken against Libya are far less onerous than the economic blockade the Security Council imposed on Iraq in 1990 after its invasion of Kuwait. Nevertheless they show again how the collapse of Communism has given the Security Council the cohesion needed to enforce its orders. That was impossible in earlier crises like the seizure of the American Embassy hostages in Teheran in 1979 or Indonesia's annexation of East Timor three years earlier.
Italy said it scrambled F-104 jet fighters to intercept a Libyan passenger jet as it was approaching Italian airspace on its way to Zurich. The action was taken after Italy refused the aircraft permission to fly over its territory. But the plane turned back toward Tripoli before the fighters reached it. Although not a United Nations member, Switzerland said it would observe the air embargo.
Egypt, which spearheaded Arab efforts to resolve the dispute over Libya's purported role in two airline bombings, closed its airspace to Libyan planes and turned back two Libyan aircraft as they were trying to reach Cairo. Officials said Cairo has canceled all flights to and from Libya.
Tunisia, another North African neighbor, also sent back a Libyan plane heading for Tunis. It said all air links with Tripoli were suspended until May 9. Morocco, the only Arab country on the Security Council, canceled its four daily flights to Tripoli while Jordan said it was canceling its biweekly air link.
But the Sudan's Parliament urged its Government to ignore the air embargo today, calling it "an international crime." It was unclear if the Government of Col. Omar Hassan al-Bashir will try to maintain air links with Libya.
Turkish airlines and Tunisia's domestic line, Tuninter, were also reported adding extra flights to the Tunisian vacation island of Djerba near the Libyan border to accommodate Libyan travelers. The ferry service between Libya and Malta was also reported to be increasing its activity.
 
'No Planes Are Flying'
 Other European, Middle Eastern and North African airlines with regular services to Tripoli also said they were suspending these flights for the duration of the sanctions. "No planes are flying to any destinations," the Libyan Arab Airlines director general, Saleh Sirjani, told Cable News Network in a telephone interview from Tripoli.
Meanwhile, France, Belgium, Japan, Sweden, Denmark and Germany said they were ordering some Libyan diplomats to leave in accordance with the Security Council's order that all countries should reduce the size of Libyan embassies and missions. The United States and Britain have already broken diplomatic ties with Libya. But the United States said it would expel an undisclosed number of diplomats from Libya's 16-member mission to the United Nations.
Libya's official news agency, Jana, reported Tripoli was planning "reciprocal measures" against countries expelling its diplomats, suggesting a series of tit-for-tat expulsions.
Libyan radio attacked the sanctions, calling them "the continuation of a war by the imperialist states against other peoples and an attempt to force them to submit to hegemony."
In addition to cutting all air links with Tripoli and reducing the size of Libya's foreign missions, the sanctions also include a total arms embargo and a requirement that its Government demonstrate its renunciation of terrorism by undefined "concrete actions" that could involve providing details of terrorist actions it planned.
As yet, the sanctions are more bothersome than crippling to Libya because Libyans can still drive to airports in neighboring Egypt and Tunisia to catch flights elsewhere. And the embargo does not affect oil sales, which Libya depends on for virtually all its income.
But Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd of Britain told the BBC today that an oil embargo might be imposed next if the current sanctions package did not achieve its aims. This, however, might be opposed by other European countries that depend heavily on Libya's light, high-grade oil.
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt also hinted at possibly tougher measures to come, saying, "If there are no political solutions, no one can predict how far the escalation will go."
Support for tougher sanctions also came from a spokesman for the families of victims of the Pan Am bombing. Bert Ammerman told a news conference here, "We applaud the United Nations and the Security Council for imposing sanctions but the next step must be an oil embargo."
Besides handing over the two Libyans accused of destroying Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, with the loss of 270 lives, the Security Council wants Libya to send four other suspects for questioning by a French magistrate investigating the destruction of the French plane. That disaster took 171 lives.
The Russian Embassy announced today that Russia planned to withdraw some 1,500 military advisers working in Libya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); TUNISIA (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (87%); MOROCCO (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (73%); 

CITY: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); ZURICH (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND) ; FRANCE LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); TUNISIA (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (87%); MOROCCO (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); SUDAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (73%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); ZURICH (73%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; FOREIGN SERVICE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL ; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



524 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
American Airlines said the lower fares it introduced last week generated a 46 percent increase in bookings. It also announced first-quarter earnings of $20 million. [Page D1.]
Apple's legal setback in its copyright suit against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard could provide a freer environment for developing new software. [D1.] 
 Coca-Cola's chairman made his first public defense of the $86 million in compensation he received last year. [D1.]
Alexander's creditors failed to agree to a deferred payment plan proposed by the New York retailer. [D5.]
Ford will buy 50 percent of Mazda's Michigan plant. [D5.]
Chrysler will soon sell cars that can run on methanol. [D5.]
The abrupt end to the Caterpillar strike shows that a company can still bring a powerful union to its knees. [A1.]
 
Earnings
A.T.& T., and Sprint and Pactel reported strong earnings because of cost cuts. But revenue growth lagged. [D6.]
Bear Stearns reported record quarterly earnings. [D6.]
General Dynamics and Northrop reported sharp increases in earnings as they worked off back orders for military goods. [D6.]
Merck and Upjohn, two big drug makers, said earnings growth slowed in the first quarter. [D10.]
Bank of New York, Norwest, First Fidelity, Fleet and Shawmut reported profits and fewer bad loans. [D19.]
CBS said operating income jumped nearly 79 percent, mainly because of lower news costs, but profits fell. [D21.]
 
The Economy
Import restrictions have had glaringly mixed results for the industries they were supposed to help, economists say. [D1.]
Industrial output rose two-tenths of 1 percent in March, the first back-to-back advance since last summer. [D9.]
Business sales shot up in February, while inventories held steady, a good sign for the economy. [D9.]
The Census Bureau said 76 percent of new workers between 1987 and 1989 took jobs in the service industry. [D9.]
A former S.E.C. commissioner implied to a judge that the agency mishandled a civil case against two accountants. [D12.]
New York State lost a record number of jobs since 1989. [B1.]
 
International
The I.M.F. said the former Soviet Union would need almost $45 billion in aid for its economic transition. [A1.]
Per capita income in the developing world declined for two consecutive years, the first such trend since World War II. [D1.]
The chairman of Taiwan Aerospace resigned, casting doubt on Taiwan's plan to invest in McDonnell Douglas. [D2.]
 
Markets
Stocks rallied again. The Dow jumped 47.63 points to a second consecutive closing record. [D1.]
Treasury notes and bonds dipped in slow trading. [D19.]
The dollar gained against most foreign currencies, continuing its rally against the mark. [D20.]
Precious metals futures crumbled, as the soaring stock market and weakening inflation prompted investors to dump gold. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
Hanson has nudged the level of the American ownership of its stock over 20 percent, but the British conglomerate is far short of the goal it outlined to investors. Market Place. [D12.]
Most of the current ambitious advertising campaigns by gasoline companies are stressing a relatively new theme -- cleansing. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); BK (NYSE) (55%); GD (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (55%); TAIWAN AEROSPACE (56%); S E C (56%); I M F (56%); NEW YORK (56%); BUREAU OF THE CENSUS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAIWAN AEROSPACE (56%); S E C (56%); I M F (56%); NEW YORK (56%); BUREAU OF THE CENSUS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); CHEMICALS (74%); BONDS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COPYRIGHT (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); RETAILERS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ALCOHOLS (69%); WORLD WAR II (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); CENSUS (65%); METALS MARKETS (63%); FUTURES (63%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); CURRENCIES (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%); 

PERSON: STUART ELLIOTT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



525 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Census Data Show Boom Before Bust

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
New information from the 1990 Census provides a haunting still life of New York in the glittering and affluent 80's, an ever more cosmopolitan center of sophisticated jobs, rising educational attainment and soaring incomes that had begun to make a dent on the intractable problems of the poor.
By almost every measure, from falling dropout and poverty rates to increases in income, life in New York City and its environs improved during the last, heady decade, characterized by conspicuous consumption and economic growth. While nationally, the income of a typical household increased only slightly, it went up 21.5 percent in New York City. 
 The Census was taken in a few frenzied weeks of enumeration two years ago, when the New York region had just begun to drift into a deepening recession.
Since then, economists and planners say, virtually all the 80's job growth in New York City and in the state has been wiped out. Welfare caseloads have soared, and the poverty rate is back up to perhaps its highest levels ever.
"When the Census was taken, most of the bad news was still to come," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the Regional Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "After that, the deluge came, and New York City was the center of the storm."
 
The Last of the Boom
 The Census catches the end of a boom fueled by the city's huge financial and services industries and by a surge in immigration that more than made up for New Yorkers who moved to the suburbs and beyond.
In statistical reports released today, the Census Bureau is providing the first portraits of daily life in some of the largest counties and cities in New York State, culled from detailed questionnaires sent to one in six households in the 1990 Census.
Almost a million new immigrants -- nearly one in seven New Yorkers -- were drawn to the city, especially to the middle-class neighborhoods of Queens, and thousands more moved to the surrounding counties. Two of every five people in the city said they did not speak English at home, and half of those said they did not speak English very well.
Many immigrants were drawn by the boom in jobs. There were more jobs created within New York City in the 1980's -- overwhelmingly high-skilled, high-paying managerial, professional and technical jobs -- than there are people in Buffalo, the state's second largest city: population, 328,123.
In 1989, the median household income rose to $29,823 in New York City and to $32,965 in the state. In Nassau County, often listed among the wealthiest counties in the country, household income was $54,283; in Suffolk, it was $49,128. More than 929,000 jobs were created in the state.
"This the story of a resurgence in New York during the 1980's, a powerful and extraordinary comeback," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "It brought with it a shift to a more information-oriented economy, and more better-paying professional, technical and managerial jobs."
The Census reports reveal that city education levels rose significantly -- more than two-thirds of New York City residents had high school degrees and one in four had at least a bachelor's degree.
During the 1980's, many New Yorkers -- living with growing homelessness and panhandling -- became convinced that the city was in the midst of decline. But the Census figures show that poverty had not worsened during the decade and had even begun to decline slightly.
Among teen-agers, the census bureau reported, the proportion of 16- to 19-year-olds who had dropped out of school declined in the city, moving to 13.5 percent from 15.7 percent. Statewide, one in 10 youngsters in the survey had dropped out.
New York City's Board of Education, using a different way of counting, said that 19.2 percent of its high school students in the class of 1990 had dropped out and is predicting that this year's number will be even lower. But some researchers have disputed this figure, arguing that the real figure must be higher.
 
Decline in Poverty Rate
 The Census reports also document a small decline in the poverty rate in the city, with 19.3 percent of all people and 30 percent of all children reported living below the poverty rate. In Queens, the poverty rate dropped below the statewide figure of 13 percent.
The percentage of households reporting public assistance payments also declined, from 9.1 percent to 7.5 percent, illustrating that economic growth had only begun to improve the life of the poor before the downturn.
"You would have expected the poverty rate to have gone down more than it did," said Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning at New York University.
But the poverty rate rose to 25 percent in 1991, according to New York City's count, the highest level ever recorded, Professor Tobier said.
City officials fear that the 1990 Census numbers will delude people about the the problem of poverty.
"Any reasonable person would not accept these numbers as a true picture of the poverty population as it exists today," said the city's Human Resources Administrator, Barbara J. Sabol, in a statement. "There is a danger that some people might use these numbers as a depiction of current economic conditions in this city."
One byproduct of the 80's economic boom was the soaring cost of housing. The median rent in New York City doubled to $498 a month, a 41 percent increase after inflation. On Long Island, median rents were even higher and went up faster, with a median of $749 in Nassau and $802 in Suffolk.


GRAPHIC: Census Bureau figures from a survey completed by one of every six households in the state:

 	 	 		New York	New York		State	City	 	 	 	Median Household	 	 	Income (in 1989	 	 	dollars)--1979	$28,433	$23,663	Median Household	 	 	Income (in 1989	 	 	dollars)--1989	$32,965	$29,823	 	 	 	Percent Below	 	 	Poverty Level--	 	 	1979	13.4%	20.0%	Percent Below	 	 	Poverty Level--	 	 	1989	13.0%	19.3%	 	 	 	High School	 	 	Dropout rate--	 	 	1979	10.6%	15.7%	High School	 	 	Dropout rate--	 	 	1989	9.9%	13.5%	
 
(Source: Census Bureau)
Graph: "Census: By Many Measures, a Decade of Improvement"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME CENSUS (97%); POVERTY RATES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); COUNTIES (87%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



526 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Workers' Shock: Jobs Aren't Ready for Them

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., April 15

 BODY:
Although Caterpillar Inc. agreed Tuesday night to take back the workers who have been on strike for five months, it did not say when it would do so. So Jerry Dolan and thousands of other employees who showed up at their plants early today, hoping to put the bitterness behind them, met one more rude surprise.
Foremen told Mr. Dolan and all other strikers: Go home and wait to be summoned to return. 
 In fact, many workers are still a bit skeptical that they will ever be called back. Although Caterpillar agreed to abide by the terms of its latest contract offer, which guarantees six years of job security to all current employees, company officials have also said some seemingly conflicting things. They have said, for example, that they think they could run their plants with 10 to 15 percent fewer workers.
So, while the strikers feel some relief, it is far outweighed by their anger and frustration.
"We could have had this agreement signed months ago," said Mr. Dolan, a 50-year-old supply carrier who has worked for Caterpillar for 26 years. "We've been walking the picket line and doing without for months, and what do we have to show for it? Nothing."
In their five months on strike, they have braved financial calamity and the doubts of their families, who wondered if they were doing the right thing. Now, as they prepare to return to their jobs, under the terms of a contract offer that their leaders had dismissed as a "mean-spirited proposal," many union members feel betrayed by their union and are angry at their employer. They describe themselves as pawns in a high-stakes chess match between two powerful opponents.
 
'This Things Stinks'
 It was their own leaders who urged many union members to report for work today. But Caterpillar officials said they were thrown so off-guard by the speed of the events, which resulted from a meeting called by a Federal mediator, that Caterpillar was simply unprepared to resume regular production. The company said employees would have to wait, possibly well into next week, before it could absorb the strikers and return things to normal.
"This thing stinks," said Morris White, a 38-year-old systems operator who has worked at Caterpillar for nine years, when asked about the agreements to end the strike. "It seems like we're back where we started because after all the hardship we've been through, we've gotten nowhere. I doubt that life in this company will ever be what it used to be."
The resentment of the union members was fueled by the company's vagueness not only on when the workers would be asked to return but also on whether all strikers would be invited back. Company officials today said they were still determining their personnel needs.
"We would like to have all of our employees come back," said Terry Thorstenson, a Caterpillar spokesman. "But we aren't sure what the process for their return will be."
Mr. Thorstenson added that Caterpillar had anticipated having weeks to prepare for a return of its members, a period that would have included a strike ratification vote by the union rank and file. "The events of the last day were completely unexpected," he said. "We have been operating differently during the strike, with 4,000 management workers. We can't just absorb 12,000 people in a matter of a few hours."
 
'We're in Limbo'
 Still, union officials said that an immediate mass return to work was what the company had sought when it told striking workers to return to their jobs by April 6 or risk losing them.
The scene today on Washington Avenue in East Peoria, where there are three entrances to Caterpillar plants, was sharply different from previous mornings, when crowds of boisterous strikers waved picket signs and honked their car horns. Only a handful of U.A.W. workers stood forlornly around the gates today.
"We're not locked out," said Ronald Walker, a 55-year-old mechanic who has worked at Caterpillar for 25 years. "We're not on strike, we're not working, we're in limbo. How can they agree for the workers to return to work and not let us go back to work?"
Caterpillar employees had the same experiences at other Illinois plants where workers have been on strike: Mossville, Decatur and Aurora.
Throughout the day, more than 1,000 members of the union stopped by the office of Local 974 of the U.A.W., which represents 9,000 Caterpillar workers here, in an effort to get clarification of the agreement between the company and the union.
Jerry F. Brown, president of the local, said the strike had been a success because the five-month dispute had shown that "the membership of this union can stand together and stand up to this corporation and this attack on the membership." Mr. Brown said the union had not been broken because "we're going to continue to negotiate."
"Anything they do that we're not happy with will be an issue on the bargaining table," he said. He said the union would never ask its members "to commit economic suicide."
Those sentiments are apparently of little consolation to many of the former strikers. "I just don't understand this agreement," said George E. Petty, a U.A.W. member a heat treatment technician at the Caterpillar plant. "It just makes you feel that everything we did was for nothing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Despain, second from left, a vice president of Caterpillar Inc., and David Stevens, with tie, a labor relations manager for the company, informing union members yesterday that they could not yet return to work as they arrived for their regular shift at the plant in East Peoria, Ill. (David Zalanik/Peoria Journal Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (96%); CATR (PAR) (96%); CAT (SWX) (96%); CAT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) CATERPILLAR INC (96%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PEORIA, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT; STRIKES; CONTRACTS; LABOR STRIKES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (59%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



527 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Bridgeport U. Clears Path For Bailout

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., April 15

 BODY:
Deeply in debt and fast running out of students, the University of Bridgeport tonight agreed to pursue a bail-out plan that would give control of the private university to the Professors World Peace Academy, an affiliate of the Unification Church.
If threats made by students are carried out, hundreds, perhaps thousands, will leave rather than attend a university controlled by a church they see as opposed to academic freedom and democratic values. 
 But there are barely 3,000 students now, half of them part-time, after the university's long slide from a peak enrollment of 9,100 in 1970. What weighed most heavily on the trustees was the university's $22 million debt.
Having spent, with court permission, the university's restricted endowment funds, and having failed, in a sinking economy, to sell any part of the 80-acre campus a block from Long Island Sound, the trustees finally accepted the World Peace Academy's offer of a first-year investment of $20 million and the promise of $30 million more and thousands of new students.
Colin Gunn, chairman of the trustees, said the board planned to vote on a final agreement within a week or two, and approval is expected.
"This agreement and the substantial funding it will provide," Mr. Gunn said, "will protect the vital interests of both students and faculty by assuring that U.B. will stay open with complete academic freedom and ample finances."
 
First of Five
 The University of Bridgeport, Mr. Gunn said, would be the first of five World Peace Academy universities established around the world.
Officials said it remained undetermined how many seats on the board of trustees would be given to the World Peace Academy, which is 90 percent financed by the Rev. Sun Myung Moon and the Unification Church. The academy wanted majority control when it first proposed affiliation last October, offering an initial investment of $10 million.
"The board of trustees was faced with a momentous decision," Mr. Gunn said defiantly. "Whether we were going to continue this university, or do away with the university."
People, he said, now had choices. "Students can leave," he said. "Faculty can leave." But there would be an operating campus in Bridgeport's South End, he said.
Trustees, concerned that they may be held personally liable for the university's $22 million debt, have been trying to reach agreements that would preserve the university as a financial entity that could continue to make payments on the debt.
In agreeing to pursue affiliation with the World Peace Academy, the trustees rejected proposals by several colleges and universities in Connecticut to take over academic programs, keeping them on the Bridgeport campus.
Even those proposals focused on the university's financial condition, converting the University of Bridgeport into a real-estate holding company collecting rent and fees from other institutions.
 
$2 Million Short
 The most comprehensive offer, from Sacred Heart University in neighboring Fairfield, fell $2 million a year short of what trustees said they needed to survive financially, even if not academically.
"They've got a $22 million debt, and the banks don't want the land, they don't want the buildings, they want the money," Annie Baldwin, the one student allowed to speak to trustees tonight, said.
Speaking as a representative for the College of Professional Studies, she urged trustees to allow the college to affiliate with the University of New Haven rather than stay as part of a university affiliated with the World Peace Academy.
"They asked me pointed questions," she said. "They asked me, 'What would you do?' "
Trustees arriving for their meeting were greeted by students and faculty opposed to any agreement with the World Peace Academy. Many had signed petitions asking trustees to release their schools to affiliate with other institutions, as the law school did this winter with Quinnipiac College, in Hamden.
"We have a very rich history," said Kristin Minihan, a second-year student at the Fones School of Dental Hygiene, part of the original junior college from which the university grew. "You have a lot of credibility when you graduate from here. Unless they go with the P.W.P.A."
Both students and professors predicted a wholesale transfer of students to other colleges if the academy won control.
The student government president, Scott Miller, a senior graduating in May with a degree in fashion merchandising, said five of his 20 fraternity brothers transferred at the beginning of spring semester.
And in every job interview, Mr. Miller said, he is asked about the university and Unification Church. "The job market is terrible," he said. "You're always fighting that, and you're always fighting the reputation of the university."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT; WORLD PEACE ACADEMY; UNIFICATION CHURCH PROFESSORS WORLD PEACE ACADEMY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT; WORLD PEACE ACADEMY; UNIFICATION CHURCH PROFESSORS WORLD PEACE ACADEMY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF BRIDGEPORT (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ENROLLMENT STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE CHRISTIE HEFNER (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



528 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Third World Economies Shrink Again

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
For the first time since World War II, per-capita income in the third world has declined for two consecutive years, the World Bank said in a report released today.
But for the 1990's as a whole, the World Bank forecast that the economies of the third world would do better than in the 1980's, largely because many developing nations have embraced economic reforms. 
 The report said Middle Eastern countries had been particularly hurt by the war in the Persian Gulf, and Eastern Europe by its transition to a market economy. The slowdown in the United States and other industrial nations hurt all third world countries, which rely on them for export revenues.
 
Growth in Future Seen
 According to the report, income per capita in the third world fell by two-tenths of 1 percent in each of the last two years. For the rest of the decade, the report said growth in per-capita income in the third world countries would jump to 2.9 percent a year, up from 1.2 percent a year in the 1980's.
"We are most optimistic about growth in East Asia and are least optimistic about per-capita income growth in Sub-Saharan Africa," said Lawrence Summers, chief economist for the World Bank.
According to the report, the industrialized nations could greatly spur growth in the third world by removing their many import barriers to manufactured goods. If the United States, European Community and Japan reduced their trade barriers by 50 percent, that would increase the third world's exports by $50 billion anuually, the World Bank said. That is almost equal to the net flow of official development aid in 1991.
The bank's economists said a successful completion of the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade talks would reduce the industrial world's trade barriers by about one-third.
The report, entitled "Global Economic Prospects and the Developing Countries," views increased exports of manufactured goods as a crucial way for the third world to grow.
Cheap labor remains the main competitive advantage of the developing world, the report said, but it added that remaining a low-cost supplier required more than cheap labor. The report said developing nations must improve their marketing expertise, telecommunications systems and transportation networks to remain competitive.
 
Estimating Export Growth
 The report predicted that growth in the seven major industrial countries will average 2.6 percent a year this decade, down from 2.8 percent in the previous decade. It said Germany's high interest rates, the large American budget deficit, and the efforts of American banks and companies to improve their balance sheets will be factors behind the slower growth.
It added that growth of one percentage point a year in the industrialized world over three years would raise exports from the developing world by $60 billion a year.
Between 1990 and 2000, East Asia's economic output will grow by 7.1 percent a year, compared with 7.9 percent in the 1980's, the report said. In Latin America, growth is expected to average 4.2 percent a year this decade, up from 1.6 percent in the 1980's, because of a continued resolution of the debt crisis and "a significant shift toward market-friendly policies."
The report predicts that in Sub-Saharan Africa growth in domestic output will rise from 2.1 percent a year to 3.5 percent a year this decade. Factoring in population growth, per-capita income is expected to rise by three-tenths of 1 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa this decade, compared with a drop of nine-tenths of 1 percent in the last decade.
In South Asia, which includes India, growth of output is forecast for 5 percent a year (3.1 percent per capita), compared with 5.4 percent in the previous decade.
For Eastern Europe, growth is expected to rise to 1.9 percent a year from growth of 1.4 percent in the 1980's.
The World Bank foresees a continuing shortage of capital that will hurt developing countries struggling to attract investment. One result of this shortage, the report said, is that real interest rates will be a high 3.3 percent this decade, which will nonetheless be lower than the record 3.8 level of the 1980's.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Developing Nations' Income Decline" shows the average annual change in per capita gross domestic product in developing countries from '65-'90. (Source: World Bank) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) WORLD BANK (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); INDIAN OCEAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FORECASTS; INCOME INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



529 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY EARNINGS;
Two Military Contractors Post Big Gains in Quarter

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
The General Dynamics Corporation and the Northrop Corporation, two of the nation's largest military contractors, reported sharp increases in first-quarter earnings yesterday.
Like other weapons producers and aerospace companies, General Dynamics and Northrop have been posting solid results for more than a year as they work off a backlog of orders from the last decade. But over the next several years, analysts said, earnings growth will become much harder to sustain because the Pentagon's budget cutting will start biting more deeply into the industry's sales and profits. 
 Following are details of the companies' results:
 
General Dynamics
 General Dynamics, which is based in Falls Church, Va., said its net earnings for the quarter surged to $435 million, or $10.32 a share, from $57 million, or $1.37 a share, in the corresponding period last year. Sales were flat at $2.1 billion.
Earnings for this year's first quarter included a one-time after-tax gain of $358 million from the sale of the Cessna Aircraft Company. General Dynamics said its earnings on continuing operations increased 44 percent, to $72 million, or $1.71 a share, from $50 million, or $1.20 a share, in last year's first quarter.
In recent months the Bush Administration moved to kill General Dynamics' contract to build additional Seawolf submarines for the Navy, although Congress is now reconsidering the issue. General Dynamics has continued to benefit from long-running weapons programs, including the F-16 jet fighter.
General Dynamics stock gained 75 cents a share, closing at $65.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
Northrop
 Northrop, based in Los Angeles, reported net income for the quarter of $47.2 million, or $1 a share, in contrast to a net loss in last year's first quarter of $34.8 million. Sales rose 4 percent, to $1.3 billion.
The net earnings figures for the 1991 period included the effects of an accounting change. Before restating the earnings to reflect the change, Northrop had posted net income for last year's first quarter of $32.6 million, or 69 cents a share, figures that included a charge of $6.7 million for the accounting change.
Northrop said it benefited from higher sales on the B-2 bomber program and from its role as a subcontractor on the F/A-18 jet fighter. But it said most of the earnings gain came from an increase in pension income and a decrease in interest expense.
Northrop stock gained 50 cents, to $26.375, on the Big Board.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
TRW Net Up 15%
 CLEVELAND, April 15 (AP) -- TRW Inc. reported a 15 percent gain in first-quarter earnings today on a 6 percent rise in sales.
The automotive, aerospace technology and information systems company said it earned $41 million, or 65 cents a share, in the first quarter on sales of about $2 billion, compared with earnings of $35 million, or 57 cents a share, on sales of about $1.9 billion a year earlier.
"We are pleased with our profit improvement, which was particularly strong in our air bag systems business," TRW's chairman, Joseph Gorman, said in a news release. "We remain cautiously optimistic about the economic recovery."
TRW said sales in the automotive segment were up 14 percent, to $1.12 billion, from the comparable quarter last year, while sales were off about 6 percent in the space and defense segment, down to $709 million.
In the information systems and services segment, which includes TRW's credit reporting network, sales were up 12 percent, to $200 million. TRW stock gained $2.25, to $50.75, on the Big Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (96%); NOC (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (95%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (95%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (95%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; NORTHROP CORP GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (96%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (95%); CESSNA AIRCRAFT CO (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP; NORTHROP CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (56%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



530 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Chief: Every Bit the Emperor

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 15

 BODY:
Alberto K. Fujimori, Peru's pragmatic and business-suited President, has lived up to his flashy street nickname, the Emperor.
Four months ago, the President shrugged off the crown, telling a Peruvian business conference, "Even though it might be convenient if there were an emperor, that emperor won't be me, because I'm very respectful of the Constitution." 
 But with the nation's courts and Congress padlocked by presidential decree last week, Peruvians now have a clearer picture of the obscure university dean who burst onto the national scene in elections two years ago.
"Fuji's a shy man," Hernando de Soto, an economist who resigned in January as the President's drug policy adviser, said today. "And like all shy people, by the time they manifest themselves, they have punched you in the nose."
Former President Alan Garcia may feel that way. Mr. Fujimori's Government announced today that it had issued arrest warrants for Mr. Garcia and other leaders of his Aprista party, charging they were responsible for weapons it said were found in the party's headquarters in a raid on April 5.
Mr. Fujimori, the 53-year-old son of Japanese immigrants, has made a career out of being underestimated.
In the 1990 presidential election, Mr. Fujimori, a virtually unknown agronomist, ran a shoestring, word-of-mouth campaign, using a tractor called the Fuji-mobile. He handily beat Mario Vargas Llosa, the internationally acclaimed novelist, who ran a multimillion-dollar campaign.
 
A Slap at Japan
 In office, President Fujimori has gored sacred cows.
Roman Catholic Church leaders sputtered when the new President advocated a national family planning program because he was "tired of seeing children eating out of garbage cans."
United States officials were furious when Mr. Fujimori, at a regional conference on drugs in Texas in February, accused the United States Drug Enforcement Administration of "corruption" and then warned that stationing American military advisers in Peru could provoke another "Vietnam War." United States officials have long charged that Peruvian corruption prevents a crackdown on the nation's coca leaf crop, the world's largest.
In an obvious effort to soothe American feelings, Mr. Fujimori gave the Peruvian Air Force authority last week to control airports and to shoot down unauthorized planes in the major drug-growing region.
Last month it was the turn of officials in Japan to fume. On a weeklong visit, Mr. Fujimori met the Emperor, addressed Parliament in Japanese, visited his parents' hometown and negotiated a $126 million aid package. On leaving, he told reporters that the aid money was "insufficient."
But Mr. Fujimori's disregard for the niceties of diplomatic convention and, more recently, for democratic institutions has kept his public approval ratings high, generally above 50 percent.
Last month, the President's popularity was shaken at a startling news conference offered by his wife, Susana Higuchi Fujimori. The First Lady charged that the President's sister, Rosa Fujimori Aritomi, and his brother, Santiago Fujimori, had sold clothing donated to Peru by Japanese charities for personal profit.
To explain her action, skeptical Peruvians offer three theories: she sought revenge against her husband for leaving her behind when he went to Japan; she sought to curtail influence enjoyed by her in-laws in palace politics, or she sought to further her ambition to run this year for Mayor of Lima. In a meeting with a prosecutor, she failed to provide proof of her charges.
With last week's attack on Congress and the courts, Mr. Fujimori soared to the highest ratings of his 20-month-old presidency -- 70 to 85 percent.
Aware that public opinion can be fickle, Mr. Fujimori has labored from the start of his Government to build a solid power base among the army. Manipulating promotions, Vladimiro Montesinos, a cashiered army captain who is the President's security adviser, has built a corps of commanders who owe their positions to Mr. Fujimori.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; PUBLIC OPINION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); AIR FORCES (71%); DRUG POLICY (69%); RELIGION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (67%); ARRESTS (67%); ARREST WARRANTS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); AGRONOMY (65%); IMMIGRATION (65%); WRITERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); VIETNAM WAR (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); FAMILY PLANNING (51%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO (PRES) SUSANA HIGUCHI FUJIMORI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



531 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Several Big Banks Post Higher Quarterly Profits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Several large banks around the country yesterday reported large gains in profits during the first quarter as problems with bad loans declined and they benefited from a wider spread between the interest rates they pay on deposits and the interest rates they collect on loans.
The Bank of New York earned $80 million after losing $63 million a year ago, while the Norwest Corporation of Minneapolis reported a 29.7 percent gain. The First Fidelity Bancorporation of Newark, N.J., said its profits rose 16.8 percent from a year ago. 
 In New England, the Fleet Financial Group, formerly known as the Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, earned 97.6 percent more than a year ago, while the Shawmut National Corporation earned $43.3 million after losing $116.7 million a year ago.
Although most banks are still burdened by a high level of non-performing assets -- badly delinquent loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure -- analysts have been expecting a rebound in profits because the level of troubled loans has begun to decline and banks have already recognized most of the losses from those loans.
Following are details of the earnings reports:
 
Bank of New York
 The Bank of New York's first-quarter profit of $80 million, or 97 cents a share, was attributed to a sharp decline to $133 million from $343 million in the amount the company added to its reserve for loan losses. The smaller addition to the loss reserve coincided with a continued decline in holdings of badly delinquent loans and real estate to $1.29 billion from $1.85 billion a year earlier.
The company added that fees from record-keeping services for mutual funds rose sharply, and it was able to reduce slightly its costs for salaries, equipment and other overhead.
 
Norwest
 The Norwest Corporation, said a decline in problems with bad loans led to a record quarterly profit of $122.4 million, or 82 cents a share, up from $94.3 million, or 68 cents. Its home mortgage financing unit earned $15.3 million, up 62.1 percent as lower interest rates led to a sharp increase in home-financing activity.
 
Shawmut
 At Shawmut, the first-quarter profit of $43.3 million was helped by a decline to $83.5 million from $140.2 million in the amount of loans the company wrote off as a loss. Shawmut, which owns Connecticut Bank & Trust Company and Shawmut National Bank in Massachusetts, also said it added $68.5 million to its reserve for future loan losses, down from $234 million a year ago.
 
Fleet Financial
 Fleet Financial earned $50.4 million, or 31 cents a share, in the first quarter, up from $25.5 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier. In addition to a wider interest-rate spread, the company's profits were helped by a sharp reduction in the amount it added to its loan-loss reserve, to $11 million from $96 million a year ago.
Fleet's mortgage-financing business earned $24.5 million in the quarter, more than twice as much as a year ago.
 
First Fidelity
 First Fidelity Bancorporation, the largest banking company in New Jersey, said first-quarter profits were $65.5 million, or 81 cents a share, up from $57.8 milllion, or 87 cents a share a year ago.
The earnings per share declined despite the increased profit because the company issued 14.3 million additional shares, assuming conversion of preferred stock to common shares. At the same time as non-performing assets declined slightly, First Fideltiy reduced the amount it added to its loan loss reserve to $61 million, down from $85 million a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK; NORWEST CORP; SHAWMUT NATIONAL CORP; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP; FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); CONNECTICUT BANK & TRUST CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); RED RIVER BANCSHARES INC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK; NORWEST CORP; SHAWMUT NATIONAL CORP; FLEET FINANCIAL GROUP; FIRST FIDELITY BANCORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY PROFITS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



532 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY EARNINGS;
Gains at A.T.& T., Sprint and Telesis

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
A.T.& T. and the Sprint Corporation, two leading long-distance telephone companies, reported strong first-quarter earnings yesterday, in large measure because of cost-cutting moves like layoffs and plant closings. But the recession continued to take its toll with lackluster revenue growth in the quarter.
Another telephone company, the Pacific Telesis Group, the provider of local-telephone service in California and Nevada, reported that its first-quarter net income rose 24.4 percent. 
 Following are the details of the companies' results:
 
A.T.& T.
 The American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which also has operations in computers, telecommunications equipment and credit-card services, said that earnings in the first quarter rose 16.5 percent, to $883 million, or 67 cents a share, from $758 million, or 59 cents a share, a year earlier. But quarterly revenue continued flat at $15.38 billion, up less than 1 percent from the $15.27 billion a year earlier.
The earnings for A.T& T. were slightly better than expected by stock analysts, although they found some troubling aspects in the financial report.
Charles W. Schelke, a telecommunications analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, had projected earnings of 65 cents a share for A.T& T., 2 cents below the actual results. But the depression in the computer industry hurt A.T& T.'s NCR unit.
Nonetheless, the stock market reacted favorably.On the New York Stock Exchange, A.T& T. shares closed at $42.875 a share, up 25 cents.
At A.T& T., telecommunications services, about 64 cents of every revenue dollar, rose 3.3 percent in the quarter, to $9.87 billion. Such services consist of not only domestic and international long-distance, but also directory-assistance, calling-card services, and toll-free "800" lines. Growth was relatively strong across the board, both internationally and domestically.
But sales of products and systems, like computers and telephone switching equipment to corporations and other nations' telephone companies, dropped 6.3 percent, to $3.45 billion. Lease of computers and other telecommunications gear also dropped 4.5 percent, to $1.64 billion.
Financial services and leasing, which includes A.T& T.'s successful Universal card, rose 32 percent, to $407 million.
 
Sprint
 Sprint, formerly United Telecommunications, reported that first-quarter operating income rose 19.5 percent, to $99.9 million, or 45 cents a share, from the final net of $83.6 million a year earlier, or 38 cents a share. An accounting change added $36.4 million to Sprint's 1992 earnings, which totaled $136.3 million, or 62 cents a share. Quarterly revenue rose 2.2 percent, to $2.21 billion, from the $2.16 billion a year earlier.
Also on the Big Board, Sprint closed at $23.75 a share, up $2.25.
Mr. Schelke of Smith Barney had projected Sprint's earnings 2 cents lower at 43 cents. He said intense competition between A.T& T. and the MCI Communications Corporation might bruise third-ranked Sprint, which could not spend as much money on expensive television advertising.
At Sprint, the accounting change was due to adoption of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109, which governs the accounting for income taxes that were accrued in the past but deferred for future payment. The standard assumes that today's tax rates will apply to the past period. For example, today's top corporate tax rate of 34 percent would apply to a deferred tax of a few years ago.
All companies must adopt No. 109 by next January, but Sprint chose to adopt the standard, which also governs acquisitions, because of its recent acquisition of the 19.9 percent of Sprint that the company did not already own.
Sprint's long-distance division posted a gain in net income of 28.8 percent, to $67 million, while revenue rose only 1.5 percent, to $1.34 billion. Sprint's local-telephone business posted a 6.6 percent rise in profit to $178 million and a rise in revenue of 3.8 percent, to $714 million. The balance of profit and revenue came from Sprint's distribution company for telecommunications equipment and a publisher of telephone directories.
 
Pacific Telesis
 Pacific Telesis said its quarterly net rose to $331 million, or 83 cents a share, from $266 million, or 68 cents a share, a year earlier. Quarterly revenue rose 2.7 percent, to $2.47 billion, from $2.41 billion a year earlier.
Pacific Telesis also said its directors would consider a proposal to spin off its Bell operating companies, including Pacific Bell, which handles California traffic, to shareholders in an effort to increase shareholder value.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); SPRINT CORP; PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); AT&T INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (68%); PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); SPRINT CORP; PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; COMPANY REPORTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); COMPUTER RENTAL & LEASING (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); CREDIT CARDS (55%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



533 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Albany Reaches Tentative Labor Pact

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 15

 BODY:
New York State reached a tentative contract agreement with its largest public employees union today, ending a contentious period in which disgruntled state workers have labored without a contract for more than a year.
The agreement, which will affect about 100,000 state workers represented by the Civil Service Employees Association, calls for a wage increase of 4 percent next April and an increase of slightly more than 4 percent in the next fiscal year. Workers will also receive bonuses in December 1993 and September 1994. 
 In exchange, the union offered a number of concessions, including an agreement to drop its court challenge of an accounting device known as the "lag payroll." The method, which was devised by the state in late 1990 to reduce its budget gap by $135 million, deferred the payment of a week's salary to state workers. The workers will receive the money when they leave state employment. A number of unions, including this one, had contested the legality of the device and the courts thus far have ruled in their favor.
The union's salary increases are expected to cost the state $87 million in the next fiscal year and $103 million in the year after that. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the State Legislature just finished closing a $4.8 billion budget gap in constructing this year's $30.8 billion budget.
 
Risks to Budget Tolerated
 But the Cuomo administration apparently believes that any financial risk posed by the salary increases would be diminished significantly by eliminating the lag payroll lawsuit and by the other concessions offered by the union, state officials said.
Most members of the Civil Service union, which represents more than half of all state workers, are blue-collar or clerical employees. They include secretaries and janitors who work for state agencies, laborers on road maintenance crews and therapy aides in state mental institutions.
No agreements have been reached with the state's other unions.
The contract would grant state workers the largest part of their salary increase in 1994, when the state's economy may be stronger and when Mr. Cuomo would face re-election if he chose to run for a fourth four-year term. Mr. Cuomo said today that he did not think state workers should continue to bear a disproportionate share of the state's fiscal burden.
"I couldn't do it this year and I couldn't do it last year but I thought it was too much to ask our people to take another sacrifice next year," Mr. Cuomo told reporters today after an appearance in Waterford.
The union contract represents the first break in a labor logjam that has severely strained the once amiable relations between Mr. Cuomo and the state's public employees.
The state workers unions, which claimed a large share of credit for Mr. Cuomo's first election as Governor in 1982, have vilified him in the last two years.
Since November 1990, the state's work force, which then numbered 185,700 employees, has been reduced by 21,300, including 6,100 layoffs. A reduction of another 3,000 jobs, including up to 1,800 layoffs, is expected by next March. State workers last received raises in April 1990, when they pocketed a 5.5 percent increase.
In response to that treatment, public employees unions have denounced Mr. Cuomo in speeches, newspaper advertisements, campaigns and marches by the thousands on the Executive Mansion.
Joseph McDermott, the president of the Civil Service union, nearly lost his re-election campaign last year after endorsing Mr. Cuomo for re-election in 1990. His opponent called him Mr. Cuomo's invisible running mate. Last December, when Mr. Cuomo was still actively considering a Presidential campaign, Mr. McDermott announced that he would not support the Governor if he ran.
The union contract agreement was reached after a marathon negotiating session that began last Saturday in a meeting room at an Albany hotel. A team of state negotiators, led by Joseph Bress, the director of the Office of Employee Relations, bargained with Mr. McDermott and his aides, with little sleep, almost continuously for five days.
The contract, if approved by the Legislature and the union's membership, would cover four years but would be retroactive to April 1, 1991, when the union's previous contract expired. It does not call for either a retroactive wage increase for that year or for an increase in the 1992-93 fiscal year, which began 15 days ago.
It would grant 4 percent raises on April 1 of the next two years and an additional 1.25 percent increase on Oct. 1, 1994.
The union agreed to increase the number of years required for an employee to reach the maximum pay grade for a given job, to seven years from five, and to a slight reduction in workers' compensation benefits.
The state is still negotiating with its other unions -- the Public Employees Federation, which represents about 53,000 white-collar workers; Council 82 of the Security and Law Enforcement Employees, which represents about 22,000 prison and security workers; United University Professions, which represents about 20,000 university workers; the Police Benevolent Association, which represents about 4,000 state troopers and investigators; and District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which represents 600 rent regulation workers in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSN CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (84%); CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSN CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (84%); CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; CONTRACTS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (70%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



534 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Chrysler Will Sell Dual-Fuel Vehicles Soon

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation will soon begin selling cars that can run on methanol as well as gasoline, Lee A. Iacocca, the company's chairman, said yesterday. Unlike some dual-fuel cars now being sold, the Chrysler models will be offered at no additional charge, he said.
The feature will cost the company several hundred dollars a car, automotive engineers say, but it will give Chrysler valuable credits in meeting Federal gasoline mileage requirements. 
 In a breakfast speech in which he dwelled on environmental matters, Mr. Iacocca described the offer to reporters who had gathered for a preview of the New York Auto Show. The offer, which will cover the Plymouth Acclaim and Dodge Spirit models, was first announced in January. The cars will go on sale in July.
They can run on gasoline or a blend of gasoline and as much as 85 percent methanol, the standard at pumps where the fuel is sold. Methanol, also known as wood alcohol, causes less air pollution than gasoline.
 
Predicts Move by Competitors
 Mr. Iacocca predicted that Chrysler's competitors would eventually have to offer the option free too.
General Motors now sells "variable fuel vehicles," in the form of the Cheverolet Lumina mid-size model, in California. These cars, which can run on methanol as well as gasoline, cost $1,500 extra, but that does not cover the company's additional expense, a spokesman said.
California offers buyers a $2,000 subsidy on dual-fuel vehicles, potentially making the buyer's cost lower than for models that run on gas only.
Automotive engineers estimated that if the production of dual-fuel vehicles rose into the tens of thousands, the additional cost would fall to $200 to $500 a vehicle. Chrysler would presumably spread that cost over all of its vehicles.
A Chrysler spokesman, Tom Kowaleski, said the cars would run just as well on pure gasoline as an ordinary car and would perform better on methanol. He said they would be lower-priced than competing dual-fuel models.
The extra costs come about because methanol is corrosive, requiring special seals and hoses. A larger-capacity fuel pump is also needed, as well as a sensor to measure the mixture in the tank and send instructions to the fuel injector.
 
Sold Mostly in California
 Very little methanol is sold outside California, and even there, sales have disappointed some early backers, but Mr. Iacocca did not put any geographic restriction on the offer.
He did not state a motivation for the offer, other than California air officials' finding that methanol burns substantially more cleanly than gasoline. But Congress, in an effort to stimulate the market for the new fuel, has offered the auto companies an inducement to build the cars. The inducement is a credit in calculating the fuel economy of their fleets.
Samuel A. Leonard, the director of automotive emission control at General Motors, said a car that would get 25 miles on a gallon of gasoline would count as a 40-mile-per-gallon vehicle if it could use methanol.
The law allows an auto maker to use that benefit to raise its fuel economy rating by up to 1.2 miles. The current standard is 27.5 miles a gallon, so a company whose cars averaged only 26.3 miles a gallon could still be in compliance if it sold enough cars that could use methanol.
Chyrsler, which sells mostly small and medium cars, is already in compliance, but the credits can be "banked" for future years.
Some environmentalists opposed the credit for dual-fuel cars when it was first proposed, saying some of the vehicles might never use a fuel besides gasoline.
But Mr. Leonard described the provision as an effort by Congress "to beat the chicken and egg problem": almost no one buys methanol-powered cars because almost no one sells methanol, and vice versa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; METHANOL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L LEE A IACOCCA (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



535 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: New York Logs 500,000 Jobs Lost Since 1989, a Record High

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Job losses in New York State over the last three years were worse than they have been for half a century, since records began being kept in 1939, a leading economist said yesterday. But he also reported signs that the pain may be easing.
The report by Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, Regional Commissioner for the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, is just another sign of just how concentrated the national recession has been in this region. Over the last two years, New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have suffered the second-worst declines in nonagricultural employment of any states in the nation. The worst declines were recorded in the region encompassing Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. 
 Since employment peaked in the New York State in April 1989, over half a million jobs have been lost, or 6.3 percent of the state's total, according to Mr. Ehrenhalt, who yesterday released a review of the state's economy. Before this recession, the most severe loss of jobs, 5.9 percent, occurred in 1945.
This does not mean that half a million people were necessarily added to the unemployment rolls. Some may have left the state, retired, or otherwise dropped out of the workforce. What the job losses do indicate, however, is a shrinkage of the state's economy and a much tougher market for those seeking work.
Despite the gloomy picture, Mr. Ehrenhalt said he saw some signs that the pain in New York State may finally be easing. In the first two months of the year, employment losses totaled 13,000. If job losses in March run at about the same rate, the first quarter of 1992 will show job losses of about 20,000. Although that is still a decline, it is a dramatic improvement over the 71,000 jobs that were lost in the state in the last quarter of 1991, and the 66,000 that were lost the quarter before that.
Also providing a ray of hope for the state's fortunes are tax receipts. Collections of the state's 4 percent sales tax were up five-tenths of 1 percent in the first three months of this year over the same period last year. "That's not a strong increase, but at least it's an increase," said Karl Felsen, a spokesman for the state's Department of Taxation and Finance. Last year, by contrast, sales tax receipts in each quarter showed declines when compared to the previous year's.
 
Higher Tax Collections
 And thanks to bonuses paid by Wall Street firms, tax collections in the first part of this year were $40 million to $50 million higher than expected, James W. Wetzler, the state's tax commissioner, said. "Things seem to be bottoming out," he said.
In previous recessions, manufacturing typically accounted for the vast majority of the state's job losses, but in this recession, virtually all sectors of the state's economy have suffered, especially business services, construction and trade.
That is not to say that manufacturing industries have prospered. Over the last three years, the state has lost 180,000 manufacturing jobs, 15 percent of the total. That is dramatically more than the rest of the nation, which lost 6 percent of its manufacturing jobs during that same period. Mr. Ehrenhalt could not explain why New York State's manufacturing sector, which now has 2,000 fewer factories than it did four years ago, had fared so poorly.
If there was an region to avoid during the last three years, it was clearly downstate, which accounted for 92 percent of the state's employment decline. The worst-hit area was New York City, which lost 8.7 percent of its jobs. By contrast, urban areas upstate, like Syracuse and Rochester, registered employment declines of less than 1 percent, while the Albany-Schenectedy-Troy area registered no decline at all.
"A very considerable part of the state was relatively little affected by the state's steepest decline in decades," said Mr. Ehrenhalt. He noted that the recession of the last three years has wiped out just 6 percent of the job growth that occurred during the 1980s in the upstate area, whereas it eliminated nearly two-thirds of the job growth downstate.
But it is the area around New York City that drives the rest of the state's economy, so any troubles there have far-reaching consequences. Mr. Ehrenhalt noted that although New York City accounts for just 43 percent of the state's private-sector employment, it generates 53 percent of the earnings, about $100 billion. And income generated by jobs in Manhattan accounts for about three-quarters of that amount, making that island a key contributor to the state's economic engine.
In an earlier study of New Jersey's economy, Mr. Ehrenhalt found a similar geographic concentration of that state's economic troubles. Eight of the state's 21 counties accounted for about three-quarters of the state's job losses for the two-year period that ended in March 1991. The eight were Union, Passaic, Hudson, Bergen, Camden, Sussex, Morris and Monmouth. All but Camden are clustered in northeastern New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS); LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS); LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; FORECASTS EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); STATISTICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SALES TAX (66%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH; EHRENHALT, SAMUEL M SAMUEL M EHRENHALT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



536 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: HARTFORD JOURNAL;
On One Side of Gun Control, She Puts Connecticut on the Other

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
THE State of Connecticut, through its public investment in the Colt's Manufacturing Company, has become a major, if perhaps unwitting, force in the effort to overturn or undermine restrictions on assault weapons across the nation, a leading gun-control advocate contended yesterday.
The advocate, Sarah Brady, who heads Handgun Control, the Washington-based lobby group, said here at a news conference that by almost any measure it was possible to conclude that a "pro-assault weapons policy" is the official view of the state, which owns 47 percent of Colt's stock through the state employee pension fund. 
 Mrs. Brady asked the state treasurer, Francisco L. Borges, who manages the fund, to disavow Colt's or force the company to stop making the Sporter rifle, which is a modified version of the AR-15, a civilian version of the M-16 military rifle.
The Connecticut Development Authority, a state-sponsored organization that has also given Colt's loan guarantees, issued a statement attacking Mrs. Brady's group as having inaccurately portrayed the company and the state in an effort to "make a trophy" of a "wounded company they can bring down." The authority also denied that the Sporter was an assault weapon "by any legal definition."
The president of Colt's, Ronald E. Stilwell, said in an interview yesterday that Mrs. Brady's "strident" statements "continue to deal with emotions." Mrs. Brady's husband, James, was shot and partly paralyzed in the attempted assassination of President Reagan in 1981. The facts are, Mr. Stilwell said, that because the Sporter is semiautomatic, requiring a pull of the trigger to fire each bullet, it cannot be considered a true assault rifle, which can fire in continuous bursts.
The state pension fund invested $25 million in Colt's in 1990 to strengthen the financially troubled company and save more than 900 jobs. Colt's had voluntarily halted production of the AR-15 semiautomatic rifle but began production of the Sporter -- a slightly modified version -- shortly after the state investment, despite Mr. Borges's vehement objections.
Since then, Colt's has become more aggressive in producing the rifles and defending them as recreational sport weapons, even as the company's fortunes have continued to decline. Industry analysts said Colt's, which filed for Federal bankruptcy protection last month, had reduced its product line, thus linking its fate -- and Connecticut's involvement -- all the more securely to continued sales of the Sporter.
The Sporter is by far the best-selling domestically produced assault-style rifle, according to the handgun group, which cited figures from the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. In recent months, the company has filed or participated in lawsuits attempting to overturn bans on such weapons in Ohio and California.
The company has said that private donations have funded those legal changes, not stockholder's funds from the state, and the development authority statement also denied at length any direct participation by the state.
Mr. Stilwell said the company did not break out sales figures and declined to say how important the Sporter was to Colt's survival through the period of its reorganization in Federal Bankruptcy Court.
But Federal figures and industry analysts suggest that it is a fairly heavy reliance. From 1984 to 1989, for example, when Colt's halted production of the AR-15, the company produced between 13,000 and 20,000 such rifles a year. In 1990, when production of the Sporter began, production jumped to 38,013, according the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
"It's certainly one of their better-selling products," said Scott A. Farrell, editor of Shooting Industry magazine.
At the same time, many of the company's other lines have been slumping in the recession. Colt's recently introduced a new 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol, for example, that Mr. Farrell said is about five to seven years behind the competition in design and technology.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sarah Brady, a gun-control advocate, contends that Connecticut's investment in the Colt's Manufacturing Company makes the state a major force in the effort to overturn weapons restrictions across the country. She illustrated her points with a chart at a news conference at the State Capitol in Hartford. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COLT'S MANUFACTURING CO COLT'S MANUFACTURING CO LLC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLT'S MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL GUN CONTROL (91%); FIREARMS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LITIGATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ASSASSINATION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; BRADY, SARAH; STILWELL, RONALD E RONALD REAGAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



537 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Gains Second Straight Month

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
Aided by a weather-induced surge in demand for electric and gas, industrial output rose two-tenths of 1 percent in March, producing the first back-to-back advance since last summer, the Federal Reserve reported today.
The rise, which closely matched predictions, was seen by economists as further evidence of a modest economic recovery even though last month's gain was less vigorous than February's five-tenths of 1 percent. 
 "The recovery's still shaping up pretty much as people have been expecting," Robert T. McGee, economist at the Tokai Bank in New York, said. Bruce Steinberg, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch, added, "The industrial sector is slowly coming back to life."
 
Business Sales Gain
 A separate report by the Commerce Department showed that business sales posted a second straight solid gain in February while inventories held steady. This suggested that companies would be called on to raise production in coming months if stepped-up demand continues.
Helping to push up industrial production, which covers roughly one-third of the economy, was output of such durable consumer goods as trucks, appliances and furniture as well as higher production by the nation's utilities.
Over all, however, the gain in manufacturing was just one-tenth of 1 percent, compared with five-tenths of 1 percent in February, and mining output eased two-tenths of 1 percent last month after an advance of seven-tenths of 1 percent.
The halting nature of the economic recovery, economists said, meant that the Fed would remain inclined to add some additional monetary fuel. They cautioned, however, that the next set of figures that might touch off another round of interest-rate cuts would probably be the Labor Department's survey of April employment conditions, which will not be published until May 8.
 
First-Quarter Decline
 For the first quarter, industrial output declined at an annual rate of 4.1 percent, a deterioration from the seven-tenths of 1 percent rate of decline in the final three months of 1991. At 107.2 for March, the Industrial Production Index remained about 1 percent below its level of last October.
Today's report also showed a small increase, one-tenth of a point, to 78.1 percent, in the operating rate of the nation's industry. But this was entirely attributed to a faster pace at utilities, where activity had been curtailed over the winter months by unseasonably warm weather.
Production of consumer durables climbed five-tenths of 1 percent last month despite a decline in output of automobiles, assembled at a 5.2 million annual rate compared with 5.4 million in February. Furniture output was particularly strong, rebounding from an early-year decline.
Nondurable consumer goods rose four-tenths of 1 percent, spurred by energy for residential use.
Business equipment other than motor vehicles rose two-tenths of 1 percent as most major categories posted increases. The Fed noted, however, that the business sector "has remained weak," even when allowance is made for the strike at Caterpillar Inc. Output of construction supplies edged lower last month after being unchanged in February.
 
Surge by Utilities
 The surge in output by the nation's utilities, which account for 7.8 percent of the total index, was 2.1 percent last month. This was enough to more than offset the decline in mining, which represents 7.5 percent of the index, and the minimal gain in manufacturing, which represents 84.7 percent.
Today's report also showed the operating, or utilization, rate fell in manufacturing for both primary and advanced processing. These have weakened since fall, the Fed noted, "with large drops occurring" in transportation equipment, primary chemicals and in paper, rubber and plastic products.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" shows the index of total industrial production from Oct. '90-March '92. (Source: Commerce Departemtn); "Capacity Utilization" shows the total output as a percentage of capacity from Oct. '90-March '92. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



538 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metal Prices Fall As Investors Turn to Stocks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Precious metal futures prices crumbled yesterday as the soaring stock market and a weakening inflation outlook prompted investors to dump gold and buy stocks.
Gold for April delivery dropped $3.50, to $336 a troy ounce, on New York's Commodity Exchange; April silver sank 9.5 cents, to $4.006 a troy ounce. April platinum fell $2.90, to $343.30 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Large commodity funds sold precious metal holdings to take advantage of the Dow Jones industrial average's second straight daily increase of more than 47 points.
"The stock market's going up like nobody's business and you're seeing people shift their investments away from the metals and putting them into the equity markets," said Randolph Donney, head of commodity research for the Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J.
He said the spot gold price could drop as low as $320 an ounce before finding major buying.
Analysts also cited the general downtrend in commodity prices as measured by the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 markets. The C.R.B. index, which is considered an inflation yardstick, fell about one-half point yesterday, to 205.55.
Gold is considered an investment hedge against inflation, so low inflation is a disincentive to own gold.
The C.R.B. index is around its 1978 level, said James M. Nevlar, an analyst for the New York-based bureau, which is owned by the Knight-Ridder media company.
Gasoline led a rebound in fuel and crude oil prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Wholesale gasoline prices, which fell more than 3 cents in the two previous sessions, regained about a third of that amount after the American Petroleum Institute reported a 3.78-million-barrel drop last week in domestic gasoline supplies.
Crude oil for May delivery edged up 1 cent, to $19.87 a barrel; May heating oil climbed 0.51 cent, to 55.59 cents a gallon; May unleaded gasoline jumped 1.14 cents, to 59.37 cents a gallon; May natural gas rose 6.4 cents, to $1.34 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Soybean futures rose but corn and wheat prices ended narrowly mixed on the Chicago Board of Trade in an abbreviated two-hour trading session that marked the end of a two-day emergency shutdown.
Volume was described as fair to active as traders returned to the grain pits for the first time since an underground flood in downtown Chicago on Monday forced the shutdown of electrical systems in the affected area.
Exchange officials scheduled another abbreviated session for today. The Board of Trade, like other financial and commodity markets, will be closed tomorrow, Good Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); MNI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); MCCLATCHY CO (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; OPTIONS TRADING METALS MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); TRENDS (75%); WHOLESALERS (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



539 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Hanson Viewed As Undervalued

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder

 BODY:
AFTER years of trying, Hanson P.L.C. has finally nudged the level of American ownership of its stock over 20 percent. However, that is far short of the goal the industrial and natural resources conglomerate outlined to American analysts and portfolio managers during the company's recent investment roadshows.
The company wants to be "a core investment holding here as we are in Britain," according to Lord White, head of its American operations. Hanson's track record certainly warrants attention. The company has reported increased profits every year since it was founded in 1964 when Lord White and Lord Hanson merged their fertilizer, commercial vehicle distribution and printing businesses and built the conglomerate with a string of successful takeovers. 
 By now almost no company in Britain or the United States is too large to be considered a potential Hanson acquisition, a point driven home by the furor that erupted in London last summer when Hanson began buying shares in Imperial Chemical Industries P.L.C. for investment purposes. And some analysts say the stock, which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange where one American depository receipt represents five British shares, is currently undervalued. It closed yesterday at $20.50, down 37.5 cents.
"It's extremely cheap right now," said Geoffrey Allum, leader of the analysts who follow Hanson for County NatWest Wood Mackenzie in London. "It doesn't need to acquire any more assets to benefit hugely from any economic pickup."
In recent years, over half Hanson's business has come from American operations, where its natural resource holdings include Peabody Coal, the nation's largest coal company; Cavenham Forest Industries, and Gold Fields Mining. Other businesses include Jacuzzi health spas, Endicott Johnson shoes, Faberware cookware, Kaiser cement, Ames tools and Grove Worldwide, the world's largest producer of construction cranes. The American businesses together would form a company with revenues that would rank among the top 60 in the nation. Hanson, which formerly owned the Smith Corona Corporation, took it public in 1989 but retains a 48 percent interest.
Hanson's holdings in Britain, where it is the fifth-largest company, include Imperial Tobacco, Britain's Ever Ready battery company and a huge stake in the construction industry, which was recently enlarged by the acquisition of Beazer P.L.C.
Most analysts are less impressed than Mr. Allum by the prospects for Hanson's stock. The company has become so large that they see scant hope that it can continue achieving 28 percent annual returns. Bruce Davidson, who follows Hanson for Smith New Court in London, describes it as "mature but cyclical" with over a third of its revenues coming from economically sensitive businesses.
Operating income fell in the fiscal year that ended last Sept. 30 for the first time, and net income is likely to be down this year for the first time unless a fairly sizable business is sold at a hefty profit. Net income in the quarter ended last Dec. 31 fell 21.2 percent, to $349 million, on revenues of $3.93 billion, from $443 million in the last quarter of 1990, which was bolstered by $92 million in one-time profits from the sale of businesses.
The earnings slowdown comes as Hanson is trying to shed its image as a deal-driven company dependent on its founders. Another stumbling block for investors has been the company's accounting practices, a result of operating an array of companies under differing American and British accounting standards.
The argument for Hanson is that companies that have been retained under its umbrella have typically recorded huge productivity gains and improved their strategic position. That record was tarnished, company executives admit, by the decline in Smith Corona's fortunes after the public offering.
During the recent roadshow, Hanson executives said that similar partial disposals were unlikely in the near future and that they remained open to selling companies or acquiring new ones. In the United States, the most likely targets are extensions of existing businesses. Hanson is also interested in expanding into Europe through friendly takeovers but is leery of European Community and local laws that might prevent it from pursuing productivity-enhancing employment cutbacks and factory consolidations.
The company's high dividend -- $1.17 an A.D.R. for a yield of 5.59 percent -- is especially appealing to American investors, but analysts say the real payoff depends on economic recovery. The stock currently trades at a discount of almost 30 percent to the market in Britain, compared with a 100 premium in 1984, according to David Ireland, an analyst with Hoare Govett in London. It will take renewed earnings growth to narrow the discount.
"To invest in Hanson, you have to expect that the economy is going to get better," agreed Sidney J. Heller, who follows the company here for Shearson Lehman Brothers. Shearson's London office has a "neutral" rating on the company, which Mr. Heller accepts although he describes himself as more favorable than his London counterparts. Mr. Heller said a potential investor in Hanson might do better with two American conglomerates, Allied-Signal and Textron. "You can already see that things are going well for them," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (82%); PSN (LSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (96%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (96%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (82%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (82%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (82%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (63%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (62%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (62%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (62%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (62%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (62%); SIC0811 TIMBER TRACTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: HANSON PLC HANSON LTD (96%); IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (83%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (82%); SMITH CORONA CORP (63%); PERSIMMON PLC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GOLD FIELDS MINING CORP (53%); CAVENHAM FOREST INDUSTRIES INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HANSON PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE) INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); FERTILIZERS (69%); COAL MINING (69%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (65%); COAL INDUSTRY (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); CHEMICALS MFG (53%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; ALLUM, GEOFFREY

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



540 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts General Gains, Still Rallying Against Mark

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar gained against most foreign currencies yesterday as it continued its rally against the German mark.
Foreign exchange dealers directed most of their attention to the relationship between the dollar and the mark, said James Lorenzo of ABN-Amro Bank. 
 The dollar fetched 1.6625 German marks late in the day in New York, stronger than Tuesday's late level of 1.6535.
 
Volume Is Sluggish
 Mr. Lorenzo said there were no fundamental factors to buoy the dollar, and new United States economic reports failed to stir much interest among currency dealers.
Among the figures released in Washington was a Federal Reserve report that production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose two-tenths of 1 percent in March. The slight gain in the industrial production index followed a five-tenths of 1 percent advance in February.
Currency trading volume was moderate at best, Mr. Lorenzo said. Activity is expected to be even more sluggish today ahead of the Good Friday holiday. European financial markets will be closed tomorrow and Monday, which will curb currency dealings here.
In New York, the dollar closed at 133.38 Japanese yen, up from 133.00 yen late Tuesday. In Tokyo, the dollar rose 0.20 yen, to a closing price of 133.25 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted at 133.35 yen.
The dollar strengthened against sterling in worldwide trading. The pound closed at $1.7550, down from $1.7640. In London, the pound fell to $1.7570, from $1.7720 late Tuesday.
Other late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with Tuesday's late levels, were: 5.6230 French francs, up from 5.5995; 1.5330 Swiss francs, up from 1.5225; 1,249.00 Italian lire, up from 1,243.25; 1.17925 Canadian dollars, up from 1.18215.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (96%); BRITISH POUND (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); EASTER SEASON (74%); MINING OUTPUT (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); 

PERSON: JAMES LORENZO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



541 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Businesses' Sales Rise 1.4%, As Inventories Hold Steady

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
Business sales shot up in February while inventories held steady, the Government said today, a combination considered a good sign for the economy's future.
The Commerce Department said sales increased 1.4 percent -- the steepest rise in 10 months -- to a seasonally adjusted $544.85 billion. That gain followed a rise of nine-tenths of 1 percent in January. 
 Inventories, meanwhile, held steady at $812.99 billion after a decline of five-tenths of 1 percent a month earlier.
 
Positive Signal
 Falling or flat inventories in the face of rising sales are a positive signal for the economy. If higher sales are sustained, businesses with depleted stocks will soon start ordering more goods from factories, which in turn will increase production and eventually lead to new hiring.
Industrial production registered an advance of two-tenths of 1 percent in March, according to a separate report by the Federal Reserve.
Sales last fell in December. Inventories had risen each month from September through December.
 
Inventory-to-Sales Ratio at 1.49
 In February, the combination of rising sales and flat inventories brought the inventory-to-sales ratio to 1.49, down from 1.51 a month earlier and the lowest since August. The latest figure means that it would take 1.49 months to exhaust inventories at the current pace of sales.
By sector, February sales jumped 2.1 percent at factories, five-tenths of 1 percent at wholesalers and 1.3 percent at retailers. An advance estimate for March showed retail sales falling four-tenths of 1 percent.
Manufacturers reported a drop of three-tenths of 1 percent in inventories in February. Retail backlogs were unchanged over all, although they were down at department stores and up at automobile dealers. Wholesale inventories rose six-tenths of 1 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Inventory-Sales Ratio" shows the total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales from Sept. '90-Feb. '92. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPANY REPORTS; SALES SALES FIGURES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



542 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
A 10.8% Gain For Gannett

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., April 15

 BODY:
The Gannett Company today reported a 10.8 percent increase in profits for the first quarter of 1991 over results in the comparable period last year.
The company reported net income of $55.5 million, or 39 cents a share, for the quarter, up from $50.1 million, or 32 cents a share, a year earlier. Some of the per-share earnings gain reflected the repurchase of 15 million shares in June 1991. 
 Revenues climbed 1 percent, to $793.1 million from $786.5 million.
Gannett said recent trends, including favorable interest rates and lower newsprint costs, "suggest a more encouraging economic environment."
The company's total newspaper advertising revenues were flat for the quarter. Gannett, however, sold The Arkansas Gazette in October. Newspapers owned in both quarters showed a 1 percent rise in advertising revenues for the reporting quarter.
For the entire company, classified advertising linage was up 4 percent in March, compared with a year earlier.
Gannett publishes 81 daily newspapers, including USA Today, and operates 10 television and 15 radio stations, along with North America's largest outdoor advertising company, the Gannett Outdoor Group.
Total advertising revenues at USA Today were up 4 percent, but paid advertising pages at the national newspaper were off 3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO GANNETT CO INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (86%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (74%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); NEWSPRINT (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



543 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: At 'Guys and Dolls,' Seeking Fun and Breaking a Record

 BODY:
When the head porter at the Martin Beck Theater showed up for work at 8 A.M. yesterday, the line had already formed for "Guys and Dolls." Then it grew, and grew. Even Michael Jukovsky was impressed. Mr. Jukovsky, well known to theater personnel up and down Broadway as New York's most persistent patron of musicals, holds the distinction of having bought the first ticket for the first preview of "Guys and Dolls."
Surveying the crowd lining up for advance tickets, he shook his head and said, " 'Crazy for You' had lines, but nothing like this." Theater management acted quickly and set out a table with free coffee and many of those in line indulged in reminiscence. With memories of Vivian Blaine and Sam Levene thick in the air, older patrons recalled watching the original in the same awed tones that some baby boomers use when talking about Woodstock. 
 By 9 P.M., 6,870 tickets had been sold, a box-office take of $374,737, breaking the day-after-opening record of $359,000 set by "The Phantom of the Opera" in 1988. No one in line seemed surprised at the response.
"There hasn't been a real musical for years: not like the old ones," said Susan Andelman of Manhattan, waiting in line. "We're in a recession, so we don't want messages. We want uplift and good tunes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Long lines formed at the Martin Beck Theater for "Guys and Dolls." (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GUYS AND DOLLS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARTIN BECK THEATER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); TICKET SALES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



544 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Where the Money Comes From To Fuel the Boom on Broadway

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
In a recession, and after one of the most disastrous fall seasons in years, Broadway has 23 new productions this spring, more than at any time in recent memory.
So where's all the money coming from? 
 The director of research for the League of American Theaters and Producers in Manhattan, George Wachtel, said, "There are more different and new investors this year than in any of the last five seasons."
They include corporate entrepreneurs looking for a big score, foreign corporations trading for ancillary rights, and individuals like the musician and music executive Herb Alpert and Nobunao Furuyama, a Japanese real-estate developer.
 
Investing Out of Gratitude
 Mr. Alpert has invested an undisclosed amount in the musical "Jelly's Last Jam," which opens April 26, and Mr. Furuyama anted up half a million dollars for "Shimada." Mr. Furuyama said the money for the play, a drama about tensions between a Japanese businessman and an Australian former prisoner of war that opens next Thursday, was an expression of his gratitude "to the American education system and my contribution to American culture." His son attends a prep school in Washington.
The investor who has got the most attention is Roger Horchow, of Horchow Collection catalogue fame, whose long-held admiration for Gershwin's "Girl Crazy" extended to his pocketbook: he put up two-thirds of the $7.5 million capitalization of "Crazy for You." Mr. Horchow has invested in productions before, but never to this extent.
Nonprofit theaters, which with eight shows are more of a Broadway presence than ever before, have also become major financial contributors to their own productions. One, "The Most Happy Fella," was produced by three nonprofits -- Lincoln Center Theater, the Goodspeed Opera House and the Center Theater Group -- as well as commercial investors like Japan Satellite Broadcasting/Stagevision and the Shubert Organization. And "A Small Family Business," the Alan Ayckbourn comedy that opens April 27, is being financed by Manhattan Theater Club Productions, a profit-making subsidiary set up by that nonprofit theater, along with a commercial producer, Weissman Productions. Such subsidiaries make it possible for nonprofits to share in money-making without jeopardizing their tax-exempt status.
 
They Don't Grow on Trees
 New backers, of course, have not simply appeared, unprompted, from the wings. On the contrary, said Roger Berlind, a producer of "Death and the Maiden" and "Guys and Dolls." "Investors have been more reluctant to risk capital in a time when everything is marked down," he said, "and their house or their art is worth less than they thought."
Thus, said Elizabeth Williams, a co-producer of "Crazy for You," "Producers have had to become more ingenious, they've had to work harder to find corporate sponsorship and investment, and to find individuals who are both passionate about the theater, and comfortable with risk."
In their search for corporate assistance, many producers have found help abroad, with angels like the Tokyo-based entrepreneurial company Office 2-1, which the producer, Emanuel Azenberg, said had put a "significant" amount of money into "Jake's Women" and would also provide part of the financing for Mr. Simon's $7 million musical version of "The Goodbye Girl," scheduled to come to Broadway next fall.
Increasingly, foreign corporations are investing in Broadway productions in return for ancillary rights. The Dutch-owned Polygram Diversified Entertainment, for instance, has invested $1 million in "Jelly's Last Jam" in return for pay-per-view television rights, and TV Asahi, the Japanese partner of Jujamcyn Theaters, received the right of first refusal for a Japanese production of "Jelly's Last Jam" in exchange for a $500,0000 investment in the Broadway version.
 
Saving Something for Later
 This trend "is one way to bring in new blood in a time when producers have to be increasingly resourceful," said Margo Lion, a co-producer of "Jelly's Last Jam." "The challenge is that you don't want to sell off everything up front so that investors can share in subsidiary rights later on."
Much of the money for plays this spring has come from familiar sources: veteran investors who have jousted on the theater scene for years, corporations that have long had financial arrangements with Broadway productions, even the occasional playwright with a solid-gold track record (Neil Simon is the principal investor in "Jake's Women," though he won't say how much).
The $1.5 million for "A Streetcar Named Desire" came from "our traditional partners," said Gerald Schoenfeld of the Shubert Organization, referring to Capital Cities Communications and Suntory International, the Japanese whisky maker, which began its investing relationship with the Shuberts in 1979.
And most of the 22 investors who chipped in the $1.4 million for Herb Gardner's "Conversations With My Father" were angels from past Gardner plays like "I'm Not Rappaport."
Despite the celebratory atmosphere created by all the new shows, and the variety of financing sources, however, many theater people are reluctant to view all the new productions as the harbinger of a bright Broadway future.
Some producers feel that the spring boomlet simply reflects a pent-up explosion of capital constrained earlier in the season, when only one new production, "Dancing at Lughnasa," was a success with both critics and audiences.
But others, noting the delays that most of this season's shows endured on their way to Broadway, believe the spring lineup has, as James Walsh, the producer of "Conversations With My Father," said, more to do with "sheer coincidence."
"I would like to think that this is a new wave," said Mr. Walsh, "but I think it's an aberration."
 
Like Comedy, It's All Timing
 John Breglio, a theater lawyer at the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, said the spring season was driven by the Tony Awards, which are presented in late May. "The so-called spring gold rush is a matter of timing," he said, "and it's gotten out of hand. Producers feel they've got to have the momentum of going into the Tonys." So Broadway, he said, has now evolved "into a two-and-a-half-month season."
There is a difference of opinion, too, on the increased role of nonprofit productions on Broadway. Mr. Breglio, who calls it "a significant change in the Broadway season," said, "to me, the nonprofits are filling the gaps, doing what traditional producers used to do."
In putting their own shows on Broadway, the nonprofit companies maintain creative control over projects and stand to reap more profits if the show is successful. The money to mount their shows and pay for marketing can come from the surpluses from previous successes (the New York Shakespeare Festival used the profits from "A Chorus Line" to finance many other productions), or from other institutional or commercial partners.
 
Nonprofit Threat to Business
 Although nonprofits frequently pay full freight when renting a theater, they occasionally get a discount, as in the case of the National Actors Theater, which pays the Shubert Organization little more than the cost of lighting, heating and other fixed expenses for use of the chronically underoccupied Belasco Theater.
But though it is filling Broadway houses that might otherwise be dark, the growing presence of the nonprofits, and the competition for money and audiences they bring, is not universally embraced. "It's not a trend that I look upon with celebration," said Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters. "It's a legitimate question, whether we should be competing on Broadway with subsidized productions. Long term, I don't think it's healthy for those institutions, or for Broadway."
Mr. Landesman said it put unsubsidized producers at a competitive disadvantage monetarily, accustomed audiences to look to the nonprofits for plays, and discouraged investors from mounting productions that might compete with those of the nonprofits.
The involvement of nonprofits can also cut down on revenues to commercial partners: "The Most Happy Fella," which received critical raves, has offered discount tickets to Lincoln Center Theater subscribers, thus extending the time of recoupment.
There can be pitfalls for the Broadway-bound nonprofits too, which are not immunized by their subscription lists, or their subsidized status, from the travails that can afflict commercial producers. The Circle Repertory Company, which hoped to open the new Lanford Wilson play, "Redwood Curtain," last Thursday at the Nederlander Theater, fell $120,000 short of its $800,000 financing, and the opening was postponed to next fall, when a commercial producer may bring it to Broadway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'Jelly's Last Jam'
Cost: $5 million
Investors: Jujamyen Theaters, $1 million; Polygram Diversified Entertainment, for pay-per-view rights, $1 million; TV Asahi, $500,000 for Japanese rights; various individuals. (Martha Swope/"Jelly's Last Jam")
 
'A Small Family Business'
Cost: $1.5 million
Investors: Manhattan Theater Club Productions Inc., profit-making subsidiary of the non-profit theater group; Weissman Productions, a commercial producer. (Gerry Goodstein/"A Small Family Business")
 
'Conversations With My Father'
Cost: $1.4 million
Investors: 22 private backers, mahy of whom have invested in other works by the playwright, Herb Gardner (Marc Bryan-Brown/"Conversations With My Father")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THUS PLC (THUSPLC) (50%); THUS PLC (THUSPLC) (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES THEATER (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MUSIC (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN HERB ALPERT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



545 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Home Video

BYLINE: By Peter M. Nichols

 BODY:

The Hits Are Coming
Stuck for months with generally humdrum titles, video stores will soon have a dozen splashy movies to offer for rent. Video releases usually follow theater openings by four to six months, and from May into the fall will come the big films -- from "The Addams Family" to "The Prince of Tides" -- that got people into theaters last winter and in a couple of cases went over the $100 million mark at the box office. 
 Divining the right release date is as big a headache for studio video divisions as it is for their theatrical counterparts. Last week Warner settled on May 20 for "J. F. K." (on two cassettes) to precede a schedule crowded with "Cape Fear" (June 4), "The Addams Family" (June 18), "Grand Canyon" (June 25) and "Bugsy" (July 1).
But May, if schedules don't change, is crowded, too, especially the last week: "Father of the Bride" (May 27), "My Girl" (May 27) and "For the Boys" (May 28). In an attention-getting move also scheduled for late May, Orion will drop the price of "The Silence of the Lambs," the big Oscar winner and a best renter for months, to $19.98.
In July, according to plan, will come "Star Trek VI" (July 1) and "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle" (July 15). The month might also produce "The Prince of Tides," though a specific date hasn't been confirmed.
Two later entries are "Beauty and the Beast" ($24.99), which Disney is saving for Oct. 30, and "Hook," which could be released at about the same time and also at a low price.
 
Unexploited Audience
 Performing-arts titles make up a minute percentage of the overall video market, but to hear the public opinion pollster Louis Harris tell it, the industry is missing out on a veritable bonanza by not promoting the genre.
Recently L. H. Research, of which Mr. Harris is chairman, polled 1,500 Americans at all economic levels to determine their attitudes about supporting the arts and viewing them in all mediums. When it came to video, 40 percent of the respondents from VCR households reported that they increasingly watched cassettes rather than television programs and 56 percent said they would like to rent or buy arts tapes.
Using this and other of his research findings, Mr. Harris has made some rough projections. Eight percent of the respondents said they would be certain to rent or buy arts tapes if they were available. Take 8 percent of 178 million adult Americans in VCR households and that comes to 14.2 million potential renters or buyers of arts tapes.
The Harris report found that respondents who patronized the arts rented tapes an average of 28.2 times over the past 12 months. Multiply 28.2 by 14.2 million and that makes about 400 million rentals. If the rental is $2, say, then a hypothetical arts market could reach $800 million.
"Someone's going to connect on this sooner or later," Mr. Harris said.
 
New Video Releases

 
The Last Boy Scout
1991. Warner. $94.99. Laser disk, $29.98. 1 hour 45 minutes. Closed captioned. R.
Bruce Willis plus Damon Wayans plus goons, gore and auto wrecks add up to a sort of poor man's "Lethal Weapon." Tony Scott's formula thriller is the brutal, graceless story of a pro-football team owner who will do about anything to get senatorial backing for a bill to promote legalized gambling on sports. Into the Gibson "Lethal Weapon" position steps Mr. Willis as a burned-out private eye; in the Danny Glover slot is Mr. Wayans as his seedy sidekick. Though the film sinks in mechanical sleaze, "the news isn't all bad for Mr. Willis. 'The Last Boy Scout' is better than 'Hudson Hawk' " (Vincent Canby).
 
1,000 Pieces of Gold
1991. Hemdale. $89.95. LD, $39.95. 1:45. PG-13.
In famine-stricken China during the 1880's, young Lalu (Rosalind Chao) is sold to a marriage broker and shipped to America, where she finds herself the slave of a rapacious saloon keeper (Michael Paul Chan) in the gold-mining town of Warren's Diggens, Idaho. Nancy Kelly's film, based on a true story, addresses the larger issue of labor exploitation in the mines and on the railroads. Ms. Chao's impressive performance as a survivor and Ms. Kelly's straightforward narration turn what could have been an overwrought story into "cool, clear-eyed historical drama" (Stephen Holden).
 
Liebestraum
1991. MGM/UA. $89.99. LD, $34.98. 1:49. CC. R.
A Mike Figgis film can mix odd ingredients. In this one, named for a Liszt piano composition, there's an architectural writer (Kevin Anderson), a bored wife (Pamela Gidley), a dying mother (Kim Novak) and a cast-iron department-store building where a murder took place 40 years earlier. In the present day the building is about to be torn down, the writer is having an affair with the wife, whose husband (Bill Pullman) is supervising the building's demolition. From the players in that situation Mr. Figgis "is very capable of of teasing a a voluptuous blend of danger and sexual possibility" (Janet Maslin).
 
Mambo Mouth
1990. Polygram$19.95. 1:00. No rating.
"You too can be a crossover success," says a neatly dressed Japanese lecturer. He's really John Leguizamo, a performer of Colombian and Puerto Rican extraction, who in this skit from his 1990 one-man Off Broadway show turns himself from a "loud, obnoxious Latino holding my crotch for self-assurance" into a "Japanese warrior who listens to Lite FM" In this and six other sketches Mr. Leguizamo delivers hilarious renditions of Hispanic braggadocio and bitterness, playing characters "with the edgy, finger-snapping energy you might imagine, but also with flashes of pathos that are apt to catch you totally off guard" (David Richards).
 
Arts and Artistry
 The arts on video tend to sell slowly but steadily over a period of years. Here is a selection of popular tapes from various distributors.
 AIDA. Highlights from the La Scala production starring Ghena Dimitrova, Luciano Pavarotti and Maria Chiara, conducted by Loren Maazel. 1988. Home Vision. $39.95. 1 hour.
 BARYSHNIKOV AT WOLF TRAP. The dancer's American debut in 1976 at the performing arts center in Virginia includes the "Don Quixote" pas de deux. 1992. Kultur. $29.95. 50 minutes.
 DISTANT HARMONY: PAVAROTTI IN CHINA. Views of the 1986 tour move from concert stage to master classes to the streets. 1987. Pacific Arts. $14.95. 1:26.
 GEORGIA O'KEEFFE. A biography features the artist's work, with interviews and critical commentary. 1977. Home Vision. $39.95. 59 minutes.
 KIROV BALLET. The company performs highlights from "Esmeralda," "Diana and Acteon," "The Venice Carnival" and others. 1989. V.I.E.W. $29.97. 1:35.
 LA BOHEME. A production of the Royal Opera at Covent Garden features Ileana Cotrubas and Neil Shicoff. 1985. HBO. $19.99. 1:55.
 LADY DAY: THE MANY FACES OF BILLIE HOLIDAY. A biography of the singer includes performances, and recollections from colleagues. 1991. Kultur. $29.95. 1 hour.
 MOISEYEV DANCE COMPANY. The famed Russian troupe performs a selection of folk dances. 1989. V.I.E.W. $29.97. 1:10.
 PICASSO: THE MAN AND HIS WORK. Two tapes study the artist's private and professional life. 1986. V.I.E.W. $79.98. 45 minutes each.
 VICTOR BORGE IN LONDON. The sophisticated Dane occasionally pounds the keyboard in accompaniment to his views on music and life. 1991. Kultur. $29.95. 50 minutes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Costner in "J.F.K." (Warner Brothers)
 
Chart: "From Big Screen to Small"
 
Scheduled video release dates for some recent popular films.
 
May 20: J.F.K.
27: Father of the Bride
27: My Girl
 
June 4: Cape Fear
18: The Addams Family
25: Grand Canyon
 
July 1: Bugsy
15: The Hand That Rocks the Cradle
 
Oct. 30: Beauty and the Beast

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: RECORDINGS (VIDEO); REVIEWS; MOTION PICTURES VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (90%); FILM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); THEATER (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, PETER M BRUCE WALTER WILLIS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



546 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Former Football Star Gets Job at Drug Maker

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
Nicholas A. Buoniconti, whose career has run from professional football to charities to business, yesterday was named vice chairman and chief operating officer of Columbia Laboratories Inc., a pharmaceuticals company.
Mr. Buoniconti, 51 years old, the former Miami Dolphins linebacker and former president of UST, a big maker of snuff and chewing tobacco, is returning to the business world after a two-year sabbatical to raise money for The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, which he co-founded. 
 He joined Columbia's board last summer at the invitation of Columbia executives whom Mr. Buoniconti had known for more than 20 years. In January, he was offered a more active role after the chairman resigned to pursue other business interests.
Although Mr. Buoniconti has not worked in the pharmaceuticals industry before, he pointed out that he has had experience in operating a company. At UST, he was in charge of 4,000 employees at the Fortune 500 company. He said in an interview yesterday that while Columbia, with 40 employees and based in Hollywood, Fla., is a much less established company, he "felt they were qualified and their product line was innovative."
Columbia recently set up licensing agreements with several companies, including Warner-Lambert, to market and sell its products in domestic and foreign markets. A typical arrangement calls for Columbia to receive 28 percent to 30 percent of the product's sales price.
Mr. Buoniconti said one of his principal roles will be to work with licensing partners. Columbia also plans to open a factory in Ireland in 1994 for manufacturing its products, now made by subcontractors. Columbia has chosen Ireland because of tax advantages and its central location to the company's worldwide markets, he said.
Columbia's over-the-counter products, based on a patented technology, include Replens, a remedy for vaginal dryness. The company is also developing some prescription drugs, but Columbia has not yet decided whether it will license those products or sell them itself. Columbia had revenues of $10.6 million last year and a net loss of $14.5 million.
Mr. Buoniconti has an economics degree from the University of Notre Dame and a law degree from the Suffolk University Law School in Boston. He and his wife, Terry, live in Coral Gables, Fla., and have three adult children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas A. Buoniconti, Columbia Laboratories Inc. (UST)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CBRX (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA LABORATORIES INC COLUMBIA LABORATORIES INC (91%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (58%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA LABORATORIES INC MIAMI DOLPHINS (58%); MIAMI DOLPHINS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); ATHLETES (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); PATENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM; BUONICONTI, NICHOLAS A JOSEPH C PAPA (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



547 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Rising Gorge

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Outrage is In. The fashion color for spring is red in the face. The national gorge on the rise.
Pollsters assure us that this is the year of the mad-as-hell voter. Popularity ratings mean nothing; only the feared "negatives" are counted -- and in that inverted rating, to be behind is to be ahead. 
 Radio talk shows have become snarlfests; the most successful call- in hosts are the dudgeonaries who whip listeners into new danders at representatives checking their caches.
Television news has tapped into the hyperarticulated frustration. Its anchors are heard spreading the disparaging word, and its cameras linger lovingly on images of joblessness, homelessness, hopelessness and lessnessness.
The print media are not to be outdone in the surliness sweepstakes. The tabloids trash the candidates with garish glee, raising "in your face" to the year's hottest compound adjective. Meanwhile, the sobersided sachems of the responsible press lionize a couple of Senators who quit because they are bored with their jobs, and treat the handsome pair as heroes for disdaining the anxieties of public service.
The politics of resentment is being covered -- and of course, exaggerated -- because enough people are persuaded that it is more fun to sound off than to sign on. As a result, the nation's most visible product is steam, which is being let off at a great rate.
Five years ago, you couldn't stir up outrage with any provocation. Saddam Hussein slaughtered 5,000 Kurds with poison gas and a handful of moralists hollered in vain; professors at our own Army War College are still explaining that the atrocity never happened, and while watchdogs yawned the State Department helped Iraq prepare for war.
That was then, when cool was in. Those who inveighed against the abuse of the franking privilege by a Congress stuffing its constituents' mailboxes with advertising were shrugged off as scolds.
Now a combination of recession, restlessness and a loss of the focus of anti-Communism has transformed the public mood. Outrage bestrides the stage.
Fringe political types, who always capitalize on fads in philosophy and feelings, moved in on the mood swing. Today's attitude is to take offense, and would-be leaders rush to affront lines to lead the national tantrum.
Thus we have the mirror-image candidacies of Brown and Buchanan, catering to the voguish resentment by espousing nativism, protectionism and isolationism. Their answer to alienation is to bait the aliens.
Thus we have the weird wish for the All-Positive Candidate, unblemished by the experience and compromise that burden the candidates of reality.
Republicans let themselves be infuriated at the demonstrated shortcomings of George Bush; Democrats vent their wrath at being forced to accept a "flawed candidacy" of Bill Clinton. The election will be decided by how many more Democrats cannot stand Clinton than Republicans cannot abide Bush.
Mr. Bush, the candidate of continuation, styles himself as the agent of change; that's a joke. Mr. Clinton, the candidate of a new generation, has genuine change to offer, but the moment's majority prefers only to express outrage at the status quo -- not to take a chance on loving a stranger.
This general embrace of outrage, this trendy glorification of outsiderhood invites a far-out candidacy to flower. The most self-possessed nation in the world has indulged its frustrations to the point of creating a constituency of the dispossessed.
Enter Ross Perot, the man on computerback. He scoops up the troops of Buchanan and Brown, inherits the wind of resentment and buys loose votes with a billionaire's riches without causing concern because he's seen to be "too rich to steal."
For those stressed out by life's complications, Mr. Perot has no- sweat answers. His simple message has great appeal to simpletons. He says he'll handle the deficit by eliminating "waste, fraud and abuse."
But it is our indulgence of selfish grumpiness that is the waste. It is the notion that the democratic system is unfair that is a fraud. And it is the willingness of free people to be diddled by misdirected outrage that is an abuse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); SWEEPSTAKES (69%); ARMIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR); BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; PEROT, H ROSS BILL CLINTON (79%); JERRY BROWN (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



548 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Old Mills and Factories All Over the Northeast Get a New Life

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As an architect and a historic preservation consultant involved in two major mill restoration projects, we would like to comment on some of the statements quoted in your March 23 article about Trenton's efforts to reclaim old factories left for dead.
While it is true that many older industrial buildings are contaminated with hazardous materials unknowingly used in the past, this does not mean that they are beyond hope of salvage. In most cases, cleanup consists of removing or encapsulating lead paint or asbestos-lined heating units or transformers. Where extensive contamination exists, even new construction is impossible without a thorough cleanup, often requiring state or Federal assistance. 
 The architectural and historical value of many of the mills warrants extensive study of their potential reuse. Many of the mills we have examined are cathedrals of industry, imbedded into the social fabric of the communities surrounding them. With their heavy, timber-frame construction and masonry walls, they were built with a precision and care unknown today, and designed to last despite decades of neglect.
You quote Stephen M. Segal, a Trenton broker of industrial real estate, as being concerned about the limitations of reusing old mills for modern industry. While we agree that 19th-century factories are not easily converted to modern production methods, it is unlikely that this kind of industry will ever return to the Northeast, no matter how up to date the facility.
That does not mean there are not many other uses for mill space. The "low ceilings" Mr. Segal refers to are often 15 feet high, maybe not enough for modern manufacturing, but more than ample for offices, retail establishments and loft-type residences.
There have been too many successful mill conversions throughout the Northeast for anyone in Trenton to lose hope. The former Winchester Rifle Works in New Haven, which you refer to, is only one example of creative reuse of an obsolete, historic mill. There are numerous examples of everything from factory outlets to artists' lofts. And the often spectacular riverside or waterfall settings of old mills only add to their appeal.
 
RENEE KAHN, ELENA KALMAN
Stamford, Conn., April 2, 1992
 
The writers are, respectively, director, Historic Neighborhood Preservation Program, and an architect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TRENTON (NJ) UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ASBESTOS (71%); LEAD (71%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LEAD PAINT (55%); 

PERSON: KALMAN, ELENA STEPHEN M SEGAL (67%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



549 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Drop in Slow Trading

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped in slow trading yesterday, as liquidity continued to be drained from the credit market in the aftermath of the underground flooding in Chicago that interrupted futures trading there.
The Chicago Board of Trade did open for a couple of hours yesterday, but traders said that most futures traders have essentially gone on vacation for the rest of the week. The Board plans shortened hours again today and will be closed tomorrow, Good Friday. 
 The largest price decline was seen among shorter-term notes, securities that have rallied sharply for two weeks.
"Given the Fed easing and the way the market reacted to it, this just shows that things are calming down," one government securities trader said. "And with the Board essentially out of business, that means we are going to stay in a pretty narrow trading range."
 
Retail Activity Brisk
 A sharp rise in Japanese stock prices and a report from the Johnson Redbook Service, a consumer survey organization, showing that retail activity was fairly brisk in early April helped to push down prices of Treasury securities early in the session.
That decline was not overcome during the remainder of the session even though the two-tenths of a percent rise in industrial production during March reported by the Federal Reserve Board was a bit weaker than expected.
Analysts said the rise in industrial output was consistent with an economy that is recovering sluggishly.
"Talk from last week that the Fed was going to cut the discount rate imminently is fading," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial markets research at the Bank of America. "Now people realize the Fed isn't about to do that, and they are trimming back positions in advance of the long weekend."
The coming auctions of new two- and five-year Treasury notes are also beginning to weigh on the market, traders said.
Yesterday the Treasury announced that it will sell $14.75 billion worth of two-year notes on Wednesday and $10.25 billion of five-year notes next Thursday.
In when-issued trading following the announcement, the two-year notes were offered at a price to yield 5.27 percent, and the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 6.67 percent.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 10115/32 , down 3/32 , to yield 7.87 percent, compared with 7.86 percent late Tuesday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered late yesterday at 10031/32 , down a quarter of a point, to yield 7.35 percent. And the 7 percent seven-year notes were offered at 9930/32 , down 6/32 , to yield 7.01 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates dipped slightly.
Three-month bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 3.60 percent, down a basis point, or hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 3.71 percent.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, the Gulf States Utilities Company offered a total of $600 million worth of 12-year and 32-year first mortgage bonds through an underwriting group led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The 8 1/4 percent 12-year bonds were priced at $99.796 to yield 8.276 percent, 92 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The remaining $300 million of 8.70 percent bonds due 2024 were priced at $98.203 to yield 8.869 percent, one percentage point over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds at the time of pricing.
The 12-year bonds are noncallable for life. The 32-year bonds are not callable for 10 years.
The issue is rated Baa-3 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
New Junk Bond Issue
 In the high-yield junk bond market, the BT Securities Corporation acted as lead manager for an offering of $175 million worth of senior notes from Food 4 Less.
The 10.45 percent securities, which are not callable for four years, were priced at $100, or par.
The size of the issue was increased from $150 million due to strong demand.
The securities are rated Ba-3 by Moody's and BB-minus by Standard & Poor's.
Corporate bond traders said that prices of most investment-grade securities were little changed on the day.
And participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that prices of most actively quoted bonds rose by about a quarter of a point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows the average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates from Dec. '91-April '92. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CME GROUP INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); FUTURES (91%); BONDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



550 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2451 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Protection -- A special report.;
Trade Curbs: Do They Do the Job?

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
In the midst of the recession and election campaign, protectionist pressures have boiled to the surface, but economists say that import restrictions have had glaringly mixed results for the industries they were supposed to help.
For a few industries like motorcycle manufacturers, protection has provided the breathing room they wanted to begin to regain their strength. But several other industries, most notably autos, are worse off. For some industries, like steel and machine tools, the results of protection have been less than desired. And in most cases, economists generally agree, one clear loser is the American consumer. 
 "Except for motorcycles, I can't think of a case where the benefits that protection gives to producers outweigh the injury suffered by consumers," said Gary Hufbauer, a fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. He figures that in the mid-1980's quotas on Japanese car imports cost American car buyers an average of $500 a car, whether the car was imported or domestically made.
 
Weighing Costs and Benefits
 Several Presidential candidates, including Patrick J. Buchanan, a Republican, and Edmund G. Brown Jr., a Democrat, have backed protection, viewing it as much-needed medicine for the nation's ailing industries. President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas say they support free but fair trade and have shunned strong protectionist rhetoric.
The protectionist drumbeat, which reached a peak during the Michigan primary, is expected to remain strong in April when the primaries continue in industrial states like Pennsylvania.
Many economists say they are unenthusiastic about protection because, in their view, Washington's trade negotiators have often failed to chose its most effective forms. This has sometimes produced painful results, as when import quotas prompted Japanese car makers to build factories in Detroit's backyard.
"The lesson is that very often protectionist measures can behave in an unanticipated way and can even be counterproductive," said Daniel Roos, director of the International Motor Vehicle Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Tariffs are generally more helpful than quotas, because they have a direct effect in making foreign products less competitive. In contrast, quotas, which limit a product's supply, can strengthen foreign competitors by enabling them to raise prices and profits, giving them more money to expand or develop new products.
"Quotas are an extremely blunt instrument," said Robert Z. Lawrence, professor of international trade at the the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
One novel form of protection came in 1986 when American semiconductor companies, worried about cutthroat pricing by Japanese competitors, pressed Washington to get the Japanese to sign an agreement setting a floor on computer chip prices.
Industry analysts say the agreement came too late to save many American producers of the main type of basic memory chips, but by subtly helping persuade Japanese chip makers to be less aggressive, the accord helped American companies making some newer types of chips. Nonetheless, many American computer makers complained that the agreement made them less competitive against the Japanese because they had to pay more for their computer chips.
Companies can grow stronger under protection if they use it as an opportunity to invest in equipment, improve product quality and otherwise shape up, economists say, although lazy companies can use protection as a cushion.
"Quotas give you a window of opportunity," said Eli Lustgarten, an industrial analyst at Paine Webber. "If you don't take advantage of that window to solve your problems, then you're going to disappear."
Labor unions are often the biggest fans of quotas and voluntary restraint agreements. "They are designed to provide an industry with time to adjust to specific foreign competition," said Rudy Oswald, chief economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "It's desirable to allow industries to do that because, otherwise, we will put whole industries out of business."
While most economists say protection means higher prices and fewer choices for consumers, Mr. Oswald argues that protection can mean more competition and lower prices in the long run by preventing Japanese cartels from dominating the American market and jacking up prices.
But in the view of many economists, the political debate about protection too often focuses on the needs of industry, while ignoring consumers, many economists say.
"Protection has cost American consumers big bucks," Mr. Hufbauer said. "If people knew how much it was going to cost them, wouldn't they insist that the nation, that the industries involved, get a better payoff from protection?"
 
Autos
For the Big Three, A Policy Misfires
 Cars imported from Japan had 20.5 percent of the American market when a voluntary-restraint agreement on such imports took effect in 1981. Last year, Japanese imports and cars built in Japanese factories in the United States grabbed 30.3 percent of the domestic market. What is more, despite a decade of quotas, the Big Three lost a record $7.5 billion last year.
What went wrong?
The quotas helped Japan's auto makers by fattening their profits. As American demand for Hondas and Toyotas outstripped the supply, prices and profit margins rose, giving the auto makers more money to invest in new models and factories.
The quotas also encouraged the Japanese to build ultramodern factories in the United States. While this has hurt Detroit, many economists say the transplant factories are a positive development, asserting that they are creating jobs and a more efficient domestic car industry, although one that is Japanese-owned.
By limiting the number of cars -- rather than the total value of Japanese imports -- the quotas gave Honda, Toyota and others a big incentive to build larger, more profitable cars. Honda turned its hot-selling Accord into a midsize car, while Toyota with its Acura, Honda with Lexus and Nissan with Infiniti put new entrants in the upper tier.
At the same time, the quotas swelled the profit margins of Detroit's Big Three, reducing the urgency for them to grow more competitive. Instead, the industry bought financial institutions, computer services companies, electronics companies and foreign auto makers, like Jaguar. If that money had gone into building more modern plants, Detroit would not be in such bad shape, many economists say.
"We created an incentive for the foreign producers to become more competitive, and we created an incentive for the domestic producers not to get more competitive," said Michael Borrus, co-director of the Berkeley Roundtable on the International Economy at the University of California. "What's perverse is American consumers paid for all of this."
The Big Three did invest billions of dollars in new plants, equipment and designs, but most industry analysts say that the Big Three still lag behind the Japanese in managing their employees, building quality into the assembly line and developing efficient factories.
"There have been some successes, but they happen to be in a broader context of failure," said Harley Shaiken, a visiting scholar at the Institute of Industrial Relations at the University of California at Berkeley.
And Mr. Roos of M.I.T. added: "There is no question that the American product has improved, but you are competing against a moving target. It isn't sufficient to play catch-up baseball."
 
Motorcycles
Harley-Davidson A Rare Success
 After recession and a flood of Japanese imports threatened Harley-Davidson Inc.'s survival in 1982, the Government agreed to impose five years of tariffs on Japanese motorcycles. The tariffs began at 45 percent in 1983 and were scheduled to decline to 10 percent in 1987, before being phased out.
A company known for making the roaring machines Marlon Brando rode in "The Wild Ones," Harley by the early 1980's was known for motorcycles that leaked oil and broke down easily. Under the umbrella of protection, it re-engineered its motorcycles, improved quality, and cut its costs by adopting new inventory methods and laying off layers of management. As a result, its market share has soared to 63 percent in large motorcycles, up from 23 percent in 1983. The plunge of the dollar after 1985 also helped.
"The tariffs gave us time to complete the revitalization that we had undertaken," said Jeffrey Bleustein, executive vice president at Harley-Davidson. "The fact that the tariffs declined told us we better get going as fast as we could."
Harley-Davidson regained its health so quickly that it asked Washington to eliminate the tariffs a year early. In fact, Harley is doing so well it is exporting aggressively to Japan.
"The Harley-Davidson case was exactly the way protection is supposed to work," said Mr. Hufbauer, the economist. "If you had many examples like that, you would be much more enthusiastic about protection."
 
Machine Tools
Help for Some, Hurt for Others
 The machine tool industry shows how protection can have mixed effects, with some companies saying quotas have rescued them, while others say quotas have nearly drowned them.
In 1986, when imported machine tools were flooding in at bargain prices, the industry asked for protection. The Pentagon lent a sympathetic ear, fearing that the nation's leadership in building weapons would suffer if the industry that made metal-cutting machinery was crippled.
So in 1987, the Government, finding that Japanese and Taiwan competitors had dumped machines on the American market at improperly low prices, got those competitors to accept a voluntary-restraint agreement, called a V.R.A. The quotas sought to keep imports from rising above 50 percent of the market.
Many machine tool manufacturers say the quotas, and the weaker dollar, have stabilized the market and increased their profits, enabling them to spend more on capital investment and developing new products.
Since the quotas took effect, for example, Cincinnati Milacron, a large machine tool producer, has increased its research and development budget by 50 percent, company officials say. It now introduces twice as many new models a year as before the quotas. "The V.R.A.'s have allowed us to rededicate ourselves to turning the machine tool business around," said Christopher C. Cole, vice president for strategy at Milacron.
But some machine tool makers say the quotas have hurt. For example, Brian McLaughlin, chief executive of Hurco, a machine tool company in Indianapolis, said the quotas almost drove his company bankrupt by preventing it from buying parts from Taiwan parts that represented 30 percent of the value of Hurco's machines.
Mr. McLaughlin said Hurco had cut back spending on developing advanced items like electronic controls because the quotas have forced it to invest in low-technology machines to produce basic cast-iron parts once obtained from Taiwan. He said the quotas might push Hurco to move production and 500 jobs overseas.
 
Choking Off Supplies

 
 "All we want to bring in are a few routine parts from Taiwan, and then incorporate 70 percent U.S. content," he said. "The quotas are telling us, 'You have to take U.S. jobs somewhere else,' because they're forcing up the costs of our production."
While many executives hail the quotas, economists ask why, if the quotas have been so successful, the industry still asked the Bush Administration last year for five more years of protection. In a compromise in December, President Bush extended the quotas for two years.
"We've put a tremendous amount of money into developing new machines over the past few years so we asked for an extension of the V.R.A.'s to give us more time to market these machines so we can make the money back," said John Fedor, president of Masco Machine Inc., a machine tool company in Cleveland.
 
Steel
Breathing Spell Spurs A Fragile Comeback
 When steel companies and steelworkers lobbied for protection in 1984 and again in 1989, they argued that temporary relief from low-priced imports would allow the industry to regain its strength.
Now, eight years after the quotas began, the nation's major steelmakers have staged a comeback by improving productivity and quality, but they lost more than $2 billion last year because capacity still outstrips demand. The quotas expired March 31, and the Bush Administration has decided not to extend them, preferring to rely on existing trade laws to battle unfairly priced imports.
In the Administration's view, the American industry has been shielded enough from competition and should be able to stand on its own. The industry is certainly a more formidable competitor than before, but many analysts say this transformation was brought about only partly by protection and mostly by the strong dollar and competitive pressures from low-cost, nonunion domestic mini-mills.
 
History of a Turnaround
 Some industry analysts say the big steelmakers did little to increase efficiency in the late 1970's and early 1980's when they were protected by a so-called trigger price mechanism that protected steelmakers against low-priced imports. They say this is a classic example of protection coddling industries into laziness.
The industry's attitude changed radically after 1982, when recession and a strong dollar drove it into crisis. Since then, the big steelmakers have vastly improved quality and productivity, with the number of man-hours required to produce a ton of steel cut in half. Steelmakers have slashed employment from 240,000 in 1984 to 160,000 today, showing that protection is not always friendly to workers. And the industry has spent more than $12 billion on equipment since 1984, although Japanese and Korean companies have helped finance many of these modernizations.
"The V.R.A.'s gave us some breathing room to become more competitive," said Lynn Williams, president of the United Steelworkers of America. For their part, industry officials say the quotas fattened their profits during the late 1980's, giving them cash to invest.
Still, faced with recession and worldwide overcapacity the nation's steelmakers complain that foreign competitors are dumping steel at cut-throat prices. For example, a ton of cold-rolled steel, which is used in automobiles, sells for $440 a ton, compared with $504 a ton in 1980.
All this shows that protection is no panacea. "Just because you've become much more competitive doesn't necessary keep you from losing money," said James Hughes, a spokesman for the American Iron and Steel Institute, the industry trade group.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 1992, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on April 16 about import barriers misidentified the motorcycle that Marlon Brando rode in the movie "The Wild One." It was a Triumph.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American motorcycle manufacturing is one of the few industries that have been helped by import restrictions. Harley-Davidson Inc., once threatened by Japanese imports, is doing so well today that it exports to Japan. Above, assembly operations at Harley's plant in York, Pa. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) (pg. D10)
 
Graphs: "Two Pictures of Protectionism" shows Japan's share of the U.S. car market from '79-'91, and America's share of the U.S. market for superheavye weight motorcycles from '79-'91. (Sources: Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association; R.L. Polk) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (64%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (59%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); IMPORT QUOTAS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS ; AUTOMOBILES; MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES; STEEL AND IRON; PRICES IMPORT TRADE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (77%); MOTORCYCLES (77%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); NEW PRODUCTS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JERRY BROWN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



551 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Studio! Life Style! Empire?

BYLINE: By JAMES SERVIN

 BODY:
ORIBE, the star hair stylist to the star models Linda Evangelista, Naomi Campbell, Christy Turlington et al, lingered for a moment outside a converted garage on Washington Street in the West Village. Wearing tight purple jeans and a leather jacket, he turned a well-heeled cowboy boot toward a huge glass doorway. Running a hand through a head of matinee-idol-thick black hair, he buzzed and then entered a cavernous concrete white-washed space.
Inside, a youngish woman in T-shirt and denim overalls sat behind a black matte desk. The phone rang. "Industria," she said, pronouncing the word with an Italian inflection. 
 White lights shone from a futuristic steel fixture above. Sinead O'Connor wailed a tortured song. All across the reception desk, office supplies bore a tiny, determined-looking, white-on-red label: "Industria." It appeared everywhere. On a stapler. A Rolodex. A book jacket.
Welcome to the world of Industria, a smooth-running model of politically correct fabulousness. Photo studio by day, sometime party place by night, Industria has been hired out for events whose hosts were Eddie Murphy, Ralph Lauren, Chanel and American Vogue. It's very 90's: Studio 54 with an early wake-up call. Even if a party draws thousands of guests and carries on until 4 A.M., a twilight cleaning crew assures that by 8 A.M., every last trace of confetti has vanished. Enter Steven Meisel, ready to photograph Madonna.
In the beginning, Industria was simply a great photography studio. Brainchild of the photographer Fabrizio Ferri and sister organization to Superstudio, Mr. Ferri's 9-year-old warehouse-size operation in Milan, Italy, Industria opened last February to instant popularity.
With 22,000 square feet of space, five studios and a smorgasbord of services (from equipment rental to catering to set-building to an adobe-style cafe), Industria offered magazines and ad agencies an attractive, recession-wise alternative to outdoor location shooting.
In its one short year on the block, however, Industria has become much, much more. The essence that all that is model-world-clubby, photo-studio trendy and Italiano seductive now infuses a range of products marketed under the Industria label. A core design team of five, headed by Mr. Ferri, sketches and plans product ideas, and Italian factories and artisans execute them.
Industria has already produced a spring collection of clothes (cashmere and suede shawls, leather vests, silk shirts and the like), and furniture is to follow. Overweening? Overextended? Or right on the money? No one can say at this early point, but plans are already under way for Industria watches, Industria stores and the inevitable Industria perfume.
"Industria is a place that embraces all of you, not just your professional side," Isabella Rossellini said as she was being made up for a Steven Meisel session. "There is a family feeling here -- I can bring my child if I want to. And there is that wonderful cafe."
The Industria esthetic is calm, solid, basic and unobtrusive. What provides the flash, and the life-style endorsements, are the models who wear the Industria sweaters (Calvin Klein's model of the moment, Lisa Taylor, says she has ordered a few), the film stars who sit in the slatted-back mahogany Industria chairs.
Industria's first avocational venture, the clothing line, appears to have been received well. Confirmed orders from Charivari, Barneys New York, Linda Dresner, Ron Ross, Ultima and Greta insure that the upscale countrywear (wool parkas for $690, cashmere and suede scarves for $1,500) will be in stores this August.
The furniture is another story. Industria has commissioned an Italian designer to handcraft three chairs and two tables. There is a straight, slatted-back chair, in mahogany or walnut, for $1,200, and two similar chairs with pliable slatted backs (an armchair is $1,300; a rocking chair, $1,550). Both Barneys and Charivari have expressed interest in buying a mahogany display table topped with glass and removable set of drawers ($1,800). No firm distribution plans are set for the furniture.
"The craftsman who makes the pieces sits in a courtyard in Milan, filling orders as they come in," said Industria's director of marketing, Lisa Immordino. "I have no idea how we're going to handle the furniture yet."
Then there is the series of massive, one-of-a-kind tables, chairs and beds fashioned from roots of Brazilian rain forest trees that will displayed and sold at Industria starting May 20. "Of course, only dead trees have been used," said Ms. Immordino. Over bottled water in Industria's cafe, she told the tale of their origin, of the 40-year-old "crazy man" who lives in a hut and carves the pieces.
"We like to say it's a sculpture," she said, examining a photograph of an hourglass-shaped piece of wood, "but technically it could be used as a plant holder." Where are the real things? "They're in two Mack trucks," Ms. Immordino said, "sitting in a garage."
Fabrizio Ferri, the man behind all this activity, has a suitably broad resume. Photographer to the international Vogues (English, Italian and German), among other publications, he has also worked on ad campaigns for corporations from Versace to Lanvin. Driven to capture serenity on film, Mr. Ferri will fly to New Mexico to shoot a Gucci bag on white sand, at sunset. When asked to explain what Industria is all about, Mr. Ferri comes up with a perfectly pitched ad-man's answer. "Industria is less about design and more about experience," he said from his Italian office. "It's about what you think you have but you really don't."
Days later, he made a slightly jet-lagged appearance in Industria's cafe. Dressed all in black and bodyguard robust, the bearded, 6-feet-4-inch Mr. Ferri stalked like a matador to kiss-kiss the model Toukie Smith, who came clattering down the hall in a bright red dress, her trademark gold hoop earrings flying. Ms. Smith was getting ready to be hostess of a benefit at the studio. "Fabrizio, baby!," she cried, disappearing into his chest.
"I like to say that I started the chair collection because I'd broken too many myself," Mr. Ferri said. "I hate the idea of a chair that's fragile. I broke one last week in our restaurant in Milano."
Sipping espresso, Mr. Ferri spoke captivatingly about Tantelleria, his retreat off the coast of Italy. He described the beauty of this volcanic island where the wind whips and burns everything in sight; where orange trees have walls built around them for protection; where palm trees grow with brave beauty out of the stony terrain; where Linda Evangelista, when she visits Mr. Ferri's home, washes the dishes every night and walks around barefoot.
It is in Tantelleria that Mr. Ferri is developing yet another concern. "I want to renovate some stone houses that look out to the sea," he said. "They have a biblical quality. I would like to restore them and share them with all my best friends."
Like any well-marketed status product, Industria offers an invitation to mythic exclusivity. The difference is that what's being pushed is, in a roundabout way, utter normalcy -- with a price tag. The world-weary photographers, models and stars who spun out the opulent fantasies of the 80's are now settling into the comfort afforded by all things solid and dependable. At least that's the idea.
"I always say that the only way to get out of a recession is to invest," said Mr. Ferri, finishing his espresso. "This recession has a good quality to it. Being Italian, it comes easy to me to say this, but it's like when you drain pasta? All the water goes down and the good pasta stays."
Spoken like a man who truly has his plate full.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Industria: 22,000 square feet of politically correct fabulousness in the West Village. (Industria) (pg. C1); Fabrizio Ferri, above, in Industria's cafe, and a chair he can't break, right. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRIA (NYC CO)

ORGANIZATION: INDUSTRIA (NYC CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: RENTING AND LEASING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (87%); RESTAURANTS (85%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: SERVIN, JAMES RALPH LAUREN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1992



552 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-10
 
AFGHAN PRESIDENT DEPOSED
Six years after his installation by Soviet occupiers, President Najibullah was overthrown in Afghanistan. His Foreign Minister said he had been detained. Muslim guerrillas who have waged a 13-year war against the Government surged toward the capital. A1
U.N. peace negotiators called for a noviolent transition of power. A10
 
PERU'S CHIEF SEEKS SUPPORT
Seeking to break Peru's impasse after seizing broad powers last week, President Fujimori called on "all political forces" to take part in a "national dialogue for peace" starting May 1. Politicians quickly dismissed the idea. A3
 
HARASSMENT RULING IN JAPAN
In a decision making the first successful legal action against sexual harassment in Japan, a court ruled that a company and one of its male employees had violated a woman's rights because of crude remarks that drove her to quit her job. A3
 
ITALIAN FINANCIER CONVICTED
One of Italy's most powerful businessmen, Carlo de Benedetti, was convicted by an Italian court on charges of fraud stemming from the 1982 collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, once Italy's largest private bank. He was sentenced to six years. D1
 
'MACEDONIA' RIVETS GREECE
Greece seems hypnotized once again by its past, not in study of its glorious achievements, but in an extraordinary burst of nationalism set off by the disintegration of Yugoslavia to the north. The object of this passion is the name Macedonia. A9
 
LIBYANS SAY THEY'VE SEEN WORSE
It takes much longer to travel to and from Libya now, but Libyans are quick to remind outsiders that they have suffered far worse from their mercurial leader than from sanctions imposed by the U.N. A5
 
'MINI-BOOM' IN CAMBODIA
Phnom Penh Journal: The inflow of thousands of United Nations personnel has given Cambodian towns an economic lift. People who have fled to the West since the Communist takeover are sending money to their families now or trying their luck in enterprises in the capital. A4
 
RUSSIA CUTS IT SHORT
On the 10th day of their tempestuous deliberations in the Kremlin, 1,000 or so lawmakers voted to return the Russian Federation to its historic name Rossiya, or Russia. A2
 
National A12-18
 
CHECKS AND IMBALANCES
The House ethics committee issued a list of 247 current and 56 former lawmakers who overdrew on their accounts at the House bank. A1
 
NOW, FOR THE HUNTING SEASON
News analysis: In the official sense, the release of the check-overdraft list brought the House bank affair to an end. In the political sense, something remains: the fall election campaign. A1
The House list included a few surprises in the New York region. A15
 
NEW WEATHER RULES FOR PILOTS
Breaking sharply with a policy that has long given broad discretion to airline pilots, the Government intends to establish rules telling them when they may take off in snowy or icy weather. The new policy results from the crash at LaGuardia Airport last month. A1
 
F.D.A. SETS BREAST-IMPLANT RULES
Women who want silicone-gel breast implants after cancer surgery will be able to get them. But relatively few women will be allowed to use them simply to enlarge their breasts, and everyone who receives them must agree to take part in clinical studies. A1
 
PEROT: PUSHED, OR PUSHING?
Ross Perot continues to portray himself as riding along on the public will, but there are increasing signs that he and his close associates are shoving his Presidential bandwagon toward the starting line. A1
Speaking at Wharton, Clinton widened his attack on Bush. A16
The President proposed an expanded student loan program. A16
 
CATERPILLAR REHIRING ALL
Putting to rest considerable uncertainty, Caterpillar said it would accept back on the job all the 12,600 workers who struck the company for five months. A12
 
GUAM ABORTION LAW SET BACK
A Federal appeals court ruled that Roe v. Wade was still binding and that Guam's particularly restrictive anti-abortion law was in conflict with it. A13
 
A GAMBIT ON THE CIVIL RIGHTS LAW
Rather than jeopardize their argument that the new civil rights law is not retroactive, Administration lawyers have abandoned a victory in an unrelated case. A18
 
Reporter's Notebook: The flooding in Chicago's Loop. A12
A survey faulted the writing skills of American schoolchildren. A12
 
Law Page B16
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
SOLVING A SMELLY PROBLEM
The central source of debilitating odors -- long an object of community outrage -- at New York City's sewage plant on the Hudson River in Harlem has finally been identified: The odors come from beneath an eight-block concrete roof where acres of foul air collect until periodic gusts roll off the river and blow them onto land. A1
Business Digest, D1
 
Weekend C1-26
Baseball, fans and history. C1
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"Metro," from Warsaw. C1
"All-Time Greats." C3
Film: At the Movies C8
"The Babe." C8
Music: Presenting video and performance art. C16
Art: Vogue photographs. C1
The Art Market C17
 
Sports B6-14
Baseball: Yanks falter in ninth. B6
Mets keep close eye on bullpen. B9
Basketball: Knicks work overtime to fritter away title. B7
Nets lose to Pacers. B10
Gillen has eye on St. John's job. B12
Boxing: No retirement plans for Foreman. B12
Columns: Vecsey on picking a Noo Yawker B7
Lipsyte on Rangers B10
Hockey: Vanbiesbrouck in top form. B10
Dream matchup for Devils. B10
Horse Racing: The Wood points to Derby. B14
Sports People B12
 
Obituaries A19
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
Editorials A26
In Russia, democracy!
Even Arabs boycott Libya.
A creative tuition increase.
The other election.
 
Letters A26
A. M. Rosenthal: Jesse Jackson's message. A27
Leslie H. Gelb: $1.5 trillion for "defense." A27
Thomas S. Foley: Criticism of the House Bank is overdrawn. A27
Jocelyn White: Superfund -- pouring money down a hole. A27

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Congress, a new state votes to become the old Russia. (Associated Press) A2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PERU (94%); ITALY (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GREECE (91%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (73%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PERU (94%); ITALY (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GREECE (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); SENTENCING (74%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (74%); ETHICS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (60%); 

PERSON: CARLO DE BENEDETTI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



553 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Democrat;
Clinton Challenges Bush on Economy

BYLINE: GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 16

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, broadening his attacks on President Bush, called today for a new national economic strategy that emphasizes education, investment tax credits and converting military spending to domestic uses.
In a speech delivered at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Clinton offered a sweeping but essentially repackaged version of ideas he has offered for months. 
 But the plan, for college tuition assistance, retraining workers and renovating the nation's highways and bridges, was presented this time as a direct challenge to President Bush, who unveiled his own tuition assistance program today while also campaigning in the state. Pennsylvania holds its Presidential primary on April 28.
Mr. Clinton portrayed the nation's economic choices as a battle to stay competitive in a world economy where Japan and Germany are "beating our brains in" with smarter investment and growth decisions.
"In 1992, the very future of the American dream is at stake," he said. "Unless we decide we want a very different kind of President with a very different economic policy, unless we decide we are going to be more responsible citizens, responsible for our common problems, we're in for more trouble."
 
Focuses on Pell Grants
 Mr. Bush, he said, proposed a budget last year that would cut the Government's Pell education grants to families making more than $10,000 a year, "but just 12 days before the Pennsylvania primary, the President comes to Pennsylvania to promise universal access to college loans, a program that has been at the core of my Presidential campaign since the day I announced," he said. "Now, they say I'm slick?"
Saying the Presidential campaign should not be "just another shallow political quarrel between the establishment philosophies of Republicans and Democrats in Washington," Mr. Clinton nevertheless used his speech to get in several digs at the President's tuition assistance proposal.
"I looked at that today, and I thought the President had decided to celebrate the 500th anniversary of Columbus' discovery of America by discovering America himself," he said.
The details of Mr. Clinton's proposal include these elements:
*Full financing for Head Start, which would cost about $5 billion; creating a $1 billion-a-year apprenticeship program for high school graduates who are not college-bound, and creating an $8 billion-a-year tuition assistance "trust fund" that would allow students to borrow money for higher education and pay it back as a percentage of future income or by participating in a national service program. Mr. Clinton has said he would replace the current $14 billion student loan program.
*Creating $2 billion in investment tax credits for new businesses, making the research and development tax credit, which costs about $1 billion a year, permanent. Mr. Clinton would also support a new "enterprise tax cut" that would cost about $200 million a year.
*Setting up a "future budget" that would be designed to increase investment in areas like education and environmental technology, and to accelerate spending on highway and bridge construction and upkeep.
George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's deputy campaign manager, said most of the programs Mr. Clinton calls for would be financed by savings in military spending, a 3 percent across-the-board cut in administrative costs and an effort to restrain costs from rising faster than personal incomes.
Mr. Clinton said: "We spend a quarter of what our competitors do on training programs for our workers. Last year Germany and Japan had productivity growth rates several times ours because they educate their people better and they organize their economies to change better than we do."
"This is not a Democratic or Republican issue," he said. "It's America against the rest of the world."
Mr. Clinton also suggested creating a civilian research and development agency that would be financed by money taken out of savings accrued from cuts in military research and development.
The Governor said he would encourage early retirement and pro-rated pension benefits for people whose jobs are lost because of cuts in military spending, and help create a retraining fund for military scientists that would be administered by the National Science Foundation. He has also said he would support granting the President a line-item veto, a power to reject specific parts of budget legislation. Many governors have line-item veto power, but Congress has withheld that power from Presidents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor Bill Clinton speaking yesterday at the Wharton School of Business of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (63%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); IFILL, GWEN BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



554 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Plight of Unlikely Altar Mates;
Passover-Easter Weekend Strains Space-Sharing Schedules

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

 BODY:
During tough economic times, it is not just families and businesses that are doubling up in cramped quarters. Houses of worship are, too, and in sharing space, they are stepping across religious, denominational and linguistic barriers in new ways.
Korean Methodists are meeting in Presbyterian church basements. Lutherans are sharing space with Baptists. In a few cases, even churches and synagogues are doubling up under one roof. 
 These relationships, born of economic necessity, have often flowered in ecumenical and ethnic harmony. But that harmony could be tested by ecclesiastical gridlock this weekend, as people flock to church and synagogue for the religious equivalent of the political Super Tuesday: Easter-Passover Super Holiday Weekend.
Friday is both Good Friday and, in the evening, the first seder of Passover. For most Christians, this weekend culminates on Sunday with Easter, the central event of Christian faith; the Jewish festival continues for another week with family gatherings and prayer services.
One church that will be feeling the holiday crunch is St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Greenwich, Conn., which is home to both the Episcopal congregation and to the Greenwich Reform Synagogue. Balancing the needs of the two congregations is usually easy: the Jews meet on Friday nights and the Christians on Sundays.
 
Quick Change
 When the synagogue meets, a church employee hangs cloth banners with Jewish themes like the menorah or the Star of David over the stained glass windows that depict the life of Jesus from birth to the resurrection. The banners are translucent to let in the light, although sometimes an image of Baby Jesus shines through a Jewish symbol as well.
An ark containing the Torah scrolls is placed before the marble altar where the Christians normally consecrate bread and wine. The American flag remains on the pulpit but the Episcopal Church flag is replaced with the flag of Israel.
"It's like an interfaith marriage," Rabbi Robert B. Lennick of the Greenwich synagogue said of the relationship. "We are always very conscious of each other's boundaries."
This holiday weekend, the Jews decided to yield. Since the main Passover observance is the seder -- the ceremonial meal held in the home that commemorates the Exodus, the Israelites' flight from Egypt -- the Jewish congregation decided not to hold services in the church on Friday night, but is encouraging members to gather with family at home.
In Manhattan, where Congregation B'nai Jeshurun shares space with St. Paul and St. Andrew United Methodist Church, rabbi and pastor argued over who should get the sanctuary. Both insisted that the other take it.
For nearly a year, the Jewish congregation, which is Conservative, has been a guest of the church at 86th Street and West End Avenue. But it refused to impose on the church's holy weekend, so it will hold services elsewhere this week.
While some Jewish congregations have canceled or moved their services, the different Christian groups that share space all want to be in church this weekend. "Everyone likes to worship in the best place in the house, which is our sanctuary," said the Rev. Austin H. Armitstead, the senior pastor of Community United Methodist Church of Jackson Heights, in Queens.
Four Methodist congregations worship in his church each Sunday, each in a different language -- English, Chinese, Spanish and Korean.
The four congregations used to meet in different locations in the sprawling 72-year-old building at 81-10 35th Avenue. But this year the pastor decided to give them all the sanctuary on Sunday, albeit at different times. The English-speaking congregation gets the space at the most popular hour, 10:30 A.M.
The congregational choreography will have to be especially precise this weekend. The number of churchgoers is expected to swell with out-of-town visitors and others who are moved to attend church on Easter even if they do not go the rest of the year.
While no one keeps a precise count, church officials agree that more congregations have been doubling and tripling up since the recession began.
The Rev. Patricia Reeberg, executive director of the Council of Churches of the City of New York, said that renting space in an established church has traditionally been a way for new churches to form. "They may start off as a Bible class or a home church and then expand from there, moving into the basement of another church until they can build their own edifice," she said.
But with the recession, she said, many small churches "are stuck" and cannot move to the next step of acquiring their own building.
While the poor economy has contributed to church overcrowding, the phenomenon apparently is a result of the same number of people going to fewer churches, rather than more people going. The recession has not driven more people to church, according to a recent study by the Princeton Religion Research Center, an affiliate of the Gallup Poll.
The Rev. Spencer Gibbs, general presbyter of the Presbytery of New York City, said doubling up can benefit not only the emerging church but the host as well. Many of the host churches are saddled with large heating and maintenance bills that the guests can help defray. "It's become mutually advantageous," he said.
In Greenwich, sharing has been mutually advantageous for another reason -- both sides have learned. The Rev. Canon Samir J. Habiby, a Palestinian who is the interim rector of St. Paul's Episcopal, said that the affiliation with the Greenwich synagogue "has enabled us to get back to our Old Testament roots."
Rabbi Lennick said that his congregation has a new appreciation for Jesus. "The Christ character has been villainized for so long in Judaism," he said. "We've developed a new understanding of Jesus as a Jew."
The Jewish congregation has rented space from the church for 11 years. But now it has raised the money to purchase its own space and hopes to move later this year.
It recently bought a Catholic school building, itself a victim of the economy when it was closed by the local Catholic diocese, the Diocese of Bridgeport. But the diocese kept open the neighboring church, and so the new synagogue will be next to -- and share a parking lot with -- St. Agnes Roman Catholic Church.
"The ecumenism continues," said Rabbi Lennick.

GRAPHIC: Photo: St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Greenwich, Conn., is home to both the Episcopal congregation and to the Greenwich Reform Synagogue. Rabbi Robert B. Lennick, left, helped the Rev. Canon Samir J. Habiby to hang a banner over the church's stained glass window. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (52%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (52%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: EASTER; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; JEWS; PASSOVER; GOOD FRIDAY RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); EASTER SEASON (94%); PASSOVER (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (76%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); HANUKKAH (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); FESTIVALS (68%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



555 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW RULES FOR PILOTS
Breaking sharply with a policy that gives broad discretion to pilots, the Federal Aviation Administration intends to establish rules on when pilots can take off in snowy and icy weather. The rules come in reaction to the crash last month of a USAir jet at La Guardia Airport during a snowstorm. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
THE SOURCE OF THAT SMELL
After years of community outrage and scientific confusion, New York City officials have finally identified the central source of the debilitating odors at Harlem's North River sewage plant: They come from beneath an eight-block concrete roof where acres of foul air collect until periodic gusts roll off the Hudson River and blow them onto land. A1.
 
A PLAN TO ENCOURAGE GIVING
Mayor Dinkins endorsed a change in tax policy intended to encourage companies to increase their contributions to museums, parks, libraries and other cultural institutions by millions of dollars. The change would allow companies to take credits against commercial rent taxes for some charitable contributions. B3.
 
RESTORING SPENDING CUTS
The Dinkins administration said it had found a way to restore $600 million in proposed spending cuts for school reconstruction and $220 million in cuts for low-income housing. B3.
 
ASSAULT GUN LAW: MIXED RESULTS
On the eve of the deadline for residents to sell or relinquish their assault rifles or else move them from the city, almost two-thirds of the guns are still unaccounted for, whether out of their owners' ignorance, procrastination or defiance. B3.
 
The $21 million tunnel to nowhere. B2.
Doctor indicted in illegal abortion. B2.
 
REGION
 
INSURANCE RISE FOR NEW JERSEY
The State Insurance Commissioner approved an average 8 percent increase in health insurance premiums starting June 1 for nearly half a million individual subscribers of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey. B5.
 
A PROFILE OF NEW JERSEY
New Jerseyans on the whole got richer, better educated, more diverse and more mobile during the prosperous 1980's, according to an economic and demographic portrait released by the Census Bureau and by the state. Yet despite the widespread benefits of the boom, which has since passed, the decade also had its losers: the number of young children living in poverty almost doubled between 1980 and 1990. B5.
 
THE LAST, BEST HOPE
Six months ago, trustees of the University of Bridgeport rejected an offer of aid from an affiliate of the Unification Church, saying they feared damage to the university's reputation and holding out hope that other aid might materialize. When trustees reversed themselves on Wednesday and decided to pursue an affiliation with the church group, one factor had changed: there was no longer any hope of another rescuer. News analysis, B5.
 
Injured boy's family files suit in bus crash. B3.
Releasing tax returns: ritual of the season. B2.
 
Our Towns B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HORIZON BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF NEW JERSEY INC (81%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); AIRLINES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CITIES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); MAYORS (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (74%); TAX LAW (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); INSURANCE (68%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); CHILD POVERTY (66%); CHILDREN (66%); FIREARMS (65%); GUN CONTROL (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); POVERTY RATES (63%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (63%); RELIGION (60%); CENSUS (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



556 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: All Strikers, Happy or Not, Can Go Back to Caterpillar

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PEORIA, Ill., April 16

 BODY:
Saying it wanted to restore good employee relations in its plants, Caterpillar Inc. said explicitly today that it would rehire all of the workers who had been out on strike for five months and that most could be back to work Monday.
But the announcement seemed to do little to dispel the ill will many workers said they felt toward the company. 
 On Wednesday, one day after reaching agreement with the United Automobile Workers to end the strike and resume negotiations on a new contract, the big earth-mover company had indicated that it might not recall 10 or 15 percent of its workers because of production changes instituted since the strike began.
That hint only stirred the already deep distrust of the strikers. They had assumed they would all be recalled after their union's leaders accepted the company's terms for resuming work.
 
Replacements as Threat
 During the strike the company gained leverage over the union by saying that thousands of unemployed people could be given the Caterpillar jobs permanently, leaving the strikers on the street. In threatening to use these permanent replacement workers, the company sent a signal to other unionized companies that the tactic could work.
At a news conference at the corporate offices here, senior Caterpillar executives said the company had found that it needed 1,350 fewer union workers than the 12,600 who had struck the company. But they said they would shed those positions by offering voluntary early retirement and by attrition, rather than by layoffs.
"Because we want to rebuild good relations," said Gerald S. Flaherty, a group president, "we have invited back every striking hourly employee in good standing." He added that because of their conduct on the picket lines, some -- fewer than 10 -- would not be recalled.
"We recognize that this has been a difficult period for our U.A.W.-recognized employees and their families," he said.
Addressing what he said was one source of the workers' anger -- their expectation that they would start work on Wednesday, the morning after the union and the company agreed to halt the strike and negotiate a new contract -- Mr. Flaherty said it simply was not possible to have the plants ready so quickly. But he added, "We do think we will be able to build good working relations."
Another executive, Wayne M. Zimmerman, vice president for human services, said Caterpillar would continue testing 8,000 men and women whom the company recruited as possible replacement workers during the strike. He said the company would not hire them, but the clear implication was that it would do so in the event of another strike if the contract negotiations fell through.
There might be an element of ruse to these threats. In the waning hours of the strike the company said it was inundated with phone calls from job-seekers living in this recession-depressed state and elsewhere. It referred the applicants to a vast warehouse-like metal building for tests in simple arithmetic.
During a two-hour period on Wednesday, a reporter counted only 29 applicants entering the center, and only 3 with out-of-state license plates. One striker, who recorded the cars coming and going throughout the day, had counted only 80 by 4 P.M.
And it was unclear whether any applicants proved to have sufficient expertise to assume the skilled jobs of Caterpillar workers. But the possibility that these job-seekers would take their jobs frightened enough workers to call for a settlement.
 
Greater Animosity Now
 At Local 974 in East Peoria, close to several of the company's major factories, workers expressed relief that they would be back on the job but little gratitude toward the company. Man after man -- and just about all the hundreds milling around outside the union hall were men -- said he felt much greater animosity than after an even longer strike 10 years ago.
"My problem is, O.K., they won this round, and now they are like kicking you at the end of the round after the bell's ringing," said Ron Osborne, a 48-year-old pipefitter with 28 years at the company. "Eighty-two, I wasn't angry then. This time the company hasn't budged an inch."
Joe Martin, 45, a machine operator and 22-year employee, said: "They stripped us of our dignity and everything else. They played dirtier than they ever have."
Gary Romans, 43, a pipefitter with 24 years at Caterpillar, said: "Cat has done nothing but lie to us from Day 1. Now they're saying, 'Trust me.' "
These men, like most Caterpillar employees, are not far from the 30 years they need to retire with full pensions, and that is where many seem to have set their sights. Bob Ferguson, a toolmaker, rolled by in his van and yelled, "I'll be out in 1,068 days!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (94%); CATR (PAR) (94%); CAT (SWX) (94%); CAT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) CATERPILLAR INC (94%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES EMPLOYMENT (91%); STRIKES (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



557 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: The House Bank: Trying to Halt a Scandal;
Speaker Declares House Bank Case Closed But Political Reality Promises to Intrude

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
On a day of little Congressional good cheer, the most upbeat thought came from the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, who said the disclosure of 247 current and 56 former members who wrote dubious checks "brings to a close this whole matter of the House bank."
In a formal way, perhaps. But not politically. 
 Indeed, the comment avoided political reality, just as much of Mr. Foley's handling of the highly charged issue. The Washington Democrat has avoided the very real threat to the re-elections of those touched by the scandal since the bank's mismanagement was brought to his attention in late 1989.
Today, for instance, though Republicans were about as likely to make the overdraft list as were Democrats, their party's campaigners had a new television spot ready to hand out as soon as the list was released. Its theme was bouncing balls, bouncing checks and "Bounce the Democrats."
This issue seems to have a resonance that extends far beyond its inherent facts.
Mr. Foley repeated again and again that no taxpayers' money was involved. He said those who wrote overdrafts were "following a practice of long standing." And he told a news conference that the press had made the situation worse by mistakenly calling the checks "bounced" or "kited" when in fact they were usually paid, whether there was money in the account or not.
 
Missing From 'Abusers' List
 But as a political reality, details like that pale before the 841 overdrafts in 39 months written by Representative Ronald V. Dellums of California, or the 697 by Representative Gerry Sikorski of Minnesota, or the 551 by Representative Louis Stokes of Ohio, the chairman of the House ethics committee, or the 547 by Representative Dennis M. Hertel of Michigan, or the 515 by Representative Chalmers P. Wylie of Ohio. Only Mr. Wylie is a Republican.
None of the five lawmakers were included on a list of the 22 "abusers" that was made public April 1. So those totals served as reminders that when the House ethics committee compiled the list last month, its standards were, to say the least, arbitrary. And that comes right back to the political problem that underlies excitement over the bank, the idea that Congress lives in a different world and speaks a different language from everybody else.
 
House Speaker's Hope
 Mr. Foley's hope is that the Democrats, with this issue "closed," and a House administrative reform plan passed last week, can now begin "concentrating fully on the public agenda." When Congress returns the week after next, he said, the House will be "taking up unemployment compensation, energy, I hope the beginning of some health care legislation, and perhaps job legislation."
But even if the bank scandal recedes into the background, at least in Washington, there are two crucial difficulties facing the Democrats.
The first is themselves. Democrats can probably agree on unemployment legislation fairly quickly, and are happy to fight the Bush Administration's insistence that the time is not ripe for fundamental repairs of the system.
But the energy bill involves conflicting committee jurisdictions. Jobs legislation involves major budget problems. And on health care, while Democrats of all stripes consistently report that it deeply troubles their constituents, there is nothing approaching consensus on how to deal with it, and the leadership seems to have done little to press for agreement.
 
Republicans' Strategy
 So it is not clear that the Democrats, on their own, can change the subject.
And they will not be on their own. The second problem they face is the House Republicans. The Republicans are not here to legislate, in the sense of working out differences and making compromises. But when the Democrats bring a bill to the vote, they will have alternatives, to make a point of contrast.
Indeed, they will soon begin a series of news conferences to lay out the equivalent of a House Republican "platform" for challengers to use when they tire of talking about the bank.
And then it is expected that the Republicans will change the subject to the House post office, whose scandals developed without any Republican role at all, and will try to make an issue of excessive Congressional staffing. By excessive, they mean Democrats do not give Republicans a sufficient share of committee jobs.
None of these Republican approaches may be as politically damaging as the bank scandal. But they will all offer distractions from the legislative agenda on which Mr. Foley would rather be concentrating.
 
Misperceptions of Public
 In his news conference today, Mr. Foley also seemed to hope that once the public better understood the details of the bank, the problem would lose political steam. But a recent New York Times/CBS News Poll suggests that is not a good enough prospect on which to bet, say, an election.
Forty-seven percent of the public said, incorrectly, that taxpayers' money was used to make good the overdrafts. Only 25 percent knew that other members' deposits were used. But those two groups did not differ greatly on approval of Congress in general or of their own representative, or on several other questions about Congress.
But there was some hope that education would matter in the long run. A third of the group that thought taxpayers' money was used also said that writing overdrafts, by itself, would be enough to make them vote for someone other than their sitting representative. That figure was cut in half for those who knew that other members' deposits covered the checks.
That is one truth most members will want to tell.
But Republicans, even though 88, or 33 percent of the current members, on the two lists are from their party (compared with 39 percent of the House as a whole), will be pushing other themes. Along with the National Republican Congressional Committee's "bounce" ads, they will offer messages like the one Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, their second-ranking leader, offered today while apologizing for 22 overdrafts.
He made a point of saying he was still proud of pressing for disclosure of all the names of lawmakers, when Democratic leaders had preferred a smaller number. And he boasted that at least none of his overdrafts had gone for business investments or politics.
And considering the pain that so many of his constituents had felt only Wednesday, perhaps he was just being kind when he neglected to put in his statement the fact that his biggest overdraft, for $9,463, was written at this season in 1990 -- to the Internal Revenue Service.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry L. Gallegos, right, Deputy Superintendent of the House Press Gallery, being surrounded by reporters yesterday as he handed out a list containing the names of 247 current and 56 former members of Congress who reportedly overdrew their checking accounts at the House bank. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICAN (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; BANKS AND BANKING POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); HEALTH CARE LAW (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



558 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Got Richer In the 1980's

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
Like that of its neighboring states, New Jersey's population got richer, better educated, more diverse and more mobile during the prosperous 1980's, according to an economic and demographic portrait of the state released by the Census Bureau and by the state yesterday.
Yet despite the widespread benefits of the boom, which has since given way to recession, the decade also had its losers: the number of young children living in poverty almost doubled between 1980 and 1990, the years for which the Census Bureau reported. 
 "These figures confirm what a lot of people know about the 80's, that it was a real growth decade for the state, but that not everybody benefited," said Connie O. Hughes, an assistant director in the state Department of Labor for occupational and demographic research. Ms. Hughes's office published a comparison of the Census Bureau's 1980 and 1990 figures.
Ms. Hughes noted that in 1990 the state's rate of economic growth had started to slide. The Census Bureau's figures therefore describe not the New Jersey of today but the state's economic progress in the last decade.
 
Income Rises
 The result is a mostly cheerful snapshot of New Jersey's economic and demographic transit through the 80's, during which the state's population grew by 5 percent, to 7.7 million. Yet the picture also contains some dark corners. Some of the findings were these:
*Household income during the decade rose 23.3 percent in constant dollars, to $41,000, the second highest in the nation. In New York State, the comparable figure is $33,000, and Connecticut leads the nation with a household income of $42,000.
*The number of households where a language other than English is spoken at home increased by 28 percent, while the number of Spanish-speakers who say they do not speak English "very well" doubled.
*And while the fastest growing car-ownership category was households owning three or more automobiles and the number of households without telephones nearly vanished, the number of families with children 5 or younger living in poverty rose from 23,000 to 45,000 during the decade. The next largest category of poverty-level New Jerseyans was unrelated adults living together.
The figures are derived from questionnaires mailed to one New Jersey household in six by the Census Bureau. They are thus samples rather than actual counts.
While New Jerseyans went to work in large numbers during the decade -- the labor force grew by more than half a million -- they also went to school. The number of New Jerseyans with less than ninth-grade educations declined by 311,000, or 40 percent, while the proportion with high school diplomas rose from 67 percent in 1980 to 77 percent in 1990.
They came to New Jersey in greater numbers from outside the country: more than half of the state's population growth of 365,000 during the decade represented immigrants from other countries, more than half of whom in turn arrived in the United States during the last decade.
Although the immigrants are not separated by nationality in the Census data, Spanish speakers clearly accounted for most of them: the number of New Jerseyans who speak Spanish at home rose by 200,000, nearly 9 percent of the population.
Being better off, New Jerseyan's also grew wasteful when it came to getting to work during the decade: 71 percent drove to work alone in 1990, compared with 64 percent in 1980. The increase came from those who gave up shared or pooled rides, who dropped from 18 to 12 percent of all commuters.
New Jerseyans increasingly worked in offices and stores during the decade. The largest increase in employment was for technical and support workers, followed by administrators and sales personnel. The largest employment declines, 28 percent, were for machine operators and assemblers, while the second largest percentage decline may be reflective of the availability of jobs elsewhere: the number of people employed as household servants dropped by nearly a quarter.
 
More Landscapers
 Meanwhile, one of the strongest areas of job growth was agriculture, forestry and fisheries, where employment grew by 64 percent. Part of the increase resulted from the growth of the suburbs, not farms, however, since landscapers, lawn-care operators and tree surgeons are included in the group.
For its poverty data, the state Labor Department compared 1979 and 1989 figures, and they show progress in escaping poverty across a broad front except among households with young children.
The number of households receiving welfare payments declined over the period, from 190,000 to 150,000, a decrease of more than 16 percent. The number of New Jerseyans living below the poverty line also decreased, from 690,000, or 9.5 percent of the population, to 570,000, or 7.6 percent of the population. The number of households with children younger than 18 that were in poverty also dropped by a quarter, to 88,000.
But for households with children younger than 5, the number nearly doubled, to 45,000, amounting to more than 10 percent of all such families.

GRAPHIC: Table: "CENSUS: New Jersey: A Decade of Changes"
 

Employment in selected industries	1980	1990	Change	 	 	 	 	Agriculture, forestry, and fisheries	24,447	40,161	64.3%	Manufacturing, nondurable goods	414,416	347,224	-16.2%	Manufacturing, durable goods	405,728	306,212	-24.5%	Finance, insurance, and real estate	231,953	346,037	49.2%	 (Source: Census Bureau)
 
Graphs: "Census: New Jersey: A Decade of Changes" shows the percent change between 1980 and 1990 of households receiving public assistance, families with children 5 years old, living below poverty level, percentage who are foreign born, median household income, and those who do not speak English "very well."*
 
*According to Cencus Brueau language
 
(Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CENSUS (92%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POVERTY RATES (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



559 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Aides Plan to Restore Housing and School Funds

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
The Dinkins administration said yesterday that it has found a way to restore $600 million in proposed spending cuts for school reconstruction and $220 million in cuts for low-income housing without increasing the city's overall cost of borrowing to finance those projects.
The restored financing will allow the city to build 10 new schools and fix 36 schools in disrepair, thus helping to alleviate overcrowding, the city's School Construction Authority said. The housing money will allow the city to build at least 6,000 apartments for poor families each year for the next four years. 
 The school projects were scheduled to be delayed for several years under the Mayor's plan to cut $729 million from the city's capital budget that goes to education over the next four years.
 
Fears for the Economy
 When the Dinkins administration announced deep cuts in the capital budget in January, city officials said that they would look for ways to restore some of the cuts. But their search apparently did not yield results before construction groups, bond dealers and some fiscal monitors voiced concerns that the cuts would hurt the economy.
Mayor David N. Dinkins revealed his plan to restore the spending at a meeting with reporters yesterday, after he was asked what he thought of a similar plan from City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman that would achieve essentially the same results.
Aides to Mr. Dinkins said the city plans to use its state allocation for school maintenance to finance the debt owed on the city bonds that would pay for the $600 million in education capital spending. City officials said that the state money had long been used for general education spending, rather than specific maintence expenses. It was unclear yesterday which education accounts might suffer if the state money is dedicated to capital spending.
Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, who had called on the Mayor to restore capital budget cuts to education, said: "I am delighted that they are restoring a significant portion of the school construction budget. It is desperately needed to improve the quality of life in New York City."
 
Debt Payments Are a Concern
 City budget officials have been meeting this week to devise a plan to reinstate much of the $3.7 billion in capital-spending cuts that Mayor Dinkins announced in January but at the same time curtail rising debt payments on long-term bonds that are used to finance the four-year capital budget. Those debt payments are a major concern of bond raters, who have threatened to lower the city's rating this year, thus increasing its cost of borrowing.
The officials are considering several ways to reduce the cost of construction, including reconfiguring timetables for building and financing projects, taking advantage of low construction costs and applying for new Federal and state matching funds.
James Vlasto, a spokesman for Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez, said that while Mr. Fernandez has not yet seen the details of the administration's plan, "it appears that the restoration will allow us to proceed with many of the projects that have been put on hold for future years, and that's good indeed."
Concerning the housing money, aides to the Mayor said that the city plans to restore $220 million of a proposed $500 million cut during the next four years. Kathryn Wylde, president of the nonprofit New York City Housing Partnership, said the restored money would help to ease the pain of thousands of New York families who are in desperate need of housing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY HOUSING PARTNERSHIP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) ; HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); BONDS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); MATCHING GIFTS (61%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (94%); JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



560 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: The Art Market

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Authenticity Challenged
In November, at Sotheby's sale of Impressionist and modern paintings in New York, 17 works with an estimated total value in excess of $14.5 million by such renowned artists as Cezanne, Sisley, Pissarro and Monet were being sold by Arnold Gumowitz, a New York developer. High reserves -- the price below which the consigner will not sell a work -- prevented all but five of these paintings from finding buyers. 
 But one painting in Mr. Gumowitz's collection never found its way to the auction block. It was "Peasant Laboring," from 1882-83 and attributed to Seurat. Mr. Gumowitz had bought the 6 1/4-by-9 7/8-inch oil painting of a peasant working in the fields in 1987 for $600,000 from Wildenstein's New York gallery. Since then, Mr. Gumowitz said, Gary Tinterow, a curator of 19th-century paintings at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and other art experts whom he declines to identify have questioned the painting's authenticity. "It is clear that the authenticity of the painting has been put at issue," said Rodney Brown, Mr. Gumowitz's lawyer.
This week, Mr. Gumowitz filed suit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, citing Mr. Tinterow; the Metropolitan Museum itself; Wildenstein & Company and its owner, Alec Wildenstein; the art historian John Rewald, and the New York art dealer Stephen Mazoh. The suit, among other things, charges fraud, deceptive trade practices and breach of contract during the purchase and sale of a painting. The developer is asking for damages in excess of $1 million.
According to court papers, at the time Mr. Gumowitz bought the painting from Wildenstein, Mr. Rewald independently authenticated the work. Mr. Gumowitz now says Mr. Rewald had been engaged by Wildenstein and had received a commission from the gallery. Mr. Rewald is ill and could not be reached for comment. Wildenstein's lawyer, Richard Bernstein, said through his secretary that he would not comment on pending litigation.
In May 1991, when Mr. Gumowitz was showing his collection to auction house experts and art dealers to explore the possibility of selling many of his holdings, he agreed to sell the Seurat to Mr. Mazoh for $800,000. The next day, Mr. Mazoh changed his mind. "No, I didn't find out the painting was a fake," Mr. Mazoh said in a recent telephone interview. "I chose not to pursue the picture because its publication history was inadequate. There just wasn't sufficient critical support to satisfy my requirements."
Mr. Mazoh's lawyer, Matthew C. Kesten, said there had never been any written agreement signed by either Mr. Mazoh or a representative of his corporation. "A number of allegations in this suit simply are not true," Mr. Kesten said.
Mr. Gumowitz said he believed that Mr. Tinterow had told Mr. Mazoh the painting had not been included in the Met's Seurat exhibition last fall because it was not authentic. "Now Wildenstein refuses to take it back," Mr. Gumowitz said. "I don't understand why. I have been a good customer. Over the years, I bought three paintings in excess of a couple of million dollars. The Seurat was my first purchase."
Mr. Tinterow said: "Every allegation regarding myself and the Met is untrue and will be denied. We consider this a nonsensical case that will quickly be dismissed." Mr. Tinterow also said he refused to comment on the authenticity of the work.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gumowitz says his Seurat is tainted. "Once you've got problems like this," he said, "a painting is impossible to sell."
 
Infighting at Barnes
 More battles at the Barnes Foundation. On Wednesday, the trustees filed a petition at the Montgomery County Orphans' Court in Pennsylvania, charging that more than $8 million used to set up the Violette de Mazia Trust, which supports art education at the foundation, based in Merion, Pa., may have come from the sale of paintings that never legally belonged to Miss de Mazia, but to the Barnes. Miss de Mazia, who died in 1988, was the former education director of the foundation and an intimate of its founder, Dr. Albert C. Barnes.
"This is a colossal red herring," said Gordon Elkins, the De Mazia Trust's lawyer. The De Mazia Trust had previously acted to block plans by the board to sell some works to pay for modernization of the Barnes building, and also sought the trustees' ouster. The De Mazia Trust also argued that a conflict of interest might be involved in the board's award of a contract to Alfred A. Knopf for publication of color photographs of the Barnes collection, since S. I. Newhouse, Knopf's owner, had made a $2 million contribution to Lincoln University. (Three out of five trustees of the the Barnes Foundation are also on the board of Lincoln, a small, historically black college 45 miles west of Merion.) "We have been trying to obtain a specific statement from Barnes about what paintings they are talking about and they refuse to give it to us," Mr. Elkins added.
According to an affidavit by Nicholas King, a former superintendent of the Barnes Collection, a painting sold by Miss de Mazia's estate for $450,000, Thomas Hart Benton's "Beach," never belonged to her. "There is evidence that many other paintings which at one time were in the Barnes's inventory were sold at Christie's in 1989 in the de Mazia estate sale," said Bruce Kaufman, a lawyer for the Barnes Foundation. "Dr. Barnes kept fairly detailed records."
A court date has been set for May 8 to hear the allegations.
 
Museums That Grow
 While museums like the Whitney, Detroit and Brooklyn have put on hold plans for expansion at least until the economy picks up, there continues to be a lot of new construction.
Last month, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago unveiled its plan for a $55 million building designed by a German architect, Josef Paul Kleihues. A week and a half later, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art broke ground on its new $85 million building designed by a Swiss architect, Mario Botta.
Now, after a two-year search, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston announced that a Spanish architect, Rafael Moneo, has been chosen to design a $50 million complex to be built on two museum-owned parcels that are east of the institution's main building. "I would love to break ground in mid-1995 and open in 1999," said the museum's director, Peter Marzio.
Mr. Marzio said the museum had begun its search for an architect with a list of 30 names. After reviewing and visiting the architects' work, it reduced the number of candidates to 10 and finally to 4. The finalists, besides Mr. Moneo, were Robert Venturi of Philadelphia, Tadao Ando of Tokyo and Norman Foster of London.
"Our reasons for picking Rafael were many," Mr. Marzio said. "His ability to handle natural light was extremely sophisticated. His work also had a wonderful balance between classical sensibilities and modern life. He was able to handle a wide range of materials and showed a tremendous understanding of the history of art."
Mr. Moneo, who from 1985 to 1990 was the chairman of the architecture department of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design, has designed the National Museum of Roman Art in Merida, and the Miro Museum and Gardens in Palma de Mallorca, both in Spain. He is completing designs for the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection Museum in Madrid and has been commissioned to design the Museum of Modern Art in Stockholm and the Davis Art Museum at Wellesley College in Massachusetts.
The Houston museum has been involved in an extensive expansion plan since the sculptor Isamu Noguchi designed its Cullen Sculpture Garden in 1986. Two other additions, Cullinan Hall and the Brown Pavilion, completed in 1958 and 1974, were designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. "Being able to build next to Mies," Mr. Marzio said. "That's the real challenge."
 
Canaletto to Composer
 Christie's salesroom in London was all abuzz on Wednesday when Canaletto's "Old Horse Guards, London, From St. James's Park" sold for $17.7 million to Andrew Lloyd Webber, the 44-year-old composer. The price set a record for the artist (the previous auction record was set three years ago when "The Thames From Westminster" sold for $2.1 million in London). It also exceeded the $13.4 million paid for Titian's "Venus and Adonis" at Christie's in London in December, which was the highest price paid for a painting on either side of the Atlantic in 1991.
"Horse Guards" had been purchased by the Earl of Radnor from Canaletto's studio and was bequeathed at his death in 1757 to James Harris, a member of the House of Commons. The picture was being sold by the Harris family. The Tate Gallery in London "had expressed an interest in the painting," said Noel Annesley, the deputy chairman of Christie's International, "but they only offered $8.5 million."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The authenticity of "Peasant Laboring," attributed to Seurat and owned by Arnold Gumowitz since 1987, is now being questioned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) WILDENSTEIN & CO (67%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING PAINTING (93%); ART DEALERS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); ART HISTORY (78%); HISTORY (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); FARM LABOR (71%); DAMAGES (70%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); CONTRACTS LAW (64%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; GUMOWITZ, ARNOLD; TINTEROW, GARY; SEURAT, GEORGES (1859-91) ARNOLD GUMOWITZ (94%); STEPHEN MAZOH (85%); GARY TINTEROW (74%); JOHN REWALD (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



561 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
New Scenes From a Mall, With Music

BYLINE: By VINCENT CANBY

 BODY:
In "Window Shopping," Chantal Akerman's Belgian-French co-production opening today at Le Cinematographe in Manhattan, the world is a place where the sun doesn't shine though it's always fair weather. The locale is a piece of late 20th-century environmental art, an underground shopping mall in which the air is conditioned, the temperature controlled by thermostat, and the lighting fluorescent with zingy neon accents.
Anyone familiar with the Belgian-born director's earlier films, including the chilly, severe "Jeanne Dielman" (1975) and "All Night Long" (1982), might expect "Window Shopping" to be some kind of indictment of consumer society. It may be, in its own devious way, but "Window Shopping" is more interested in the tiny problems that loom so large in the lives of the people within that society. 
 As if that weren't already uncharacteristic of the Akerman mode, "Window Shopping" is also a musical that recalls Jacques Demy's considerably more grandiose "Umbrellas of Cherbourg" and "Young Girls of Rochefort." Although the characters do not sing their dialogue, as in the Demy films, they don't hesitate to express themselves in song when the mood hits them.
The result is an unpretentious, absolutely charming romantic comedy-with-music, the small scale of which perfectly suits the passions of its characters.
Among these are Jeanne (Delphine Seyrig) who, with her husband, Monsieur Schwartz (Charles Denner), and son, Robert (Nicolas Trunc), runs a men's boutique; Lili (Fanny Cottencon), a femme fatale and the proprietor of a beauty salon, and Mado (Lio), a lovely innocent who works in the beauty salon and yearns for Robert, who yearns for the older, more worldly Lili.
John Berry, the American director ("He Ran All the Way," "Claudine"), who is a longtime resident of France, plays Eli, an American businessman who becomes the story's catalyst. One day, Eli wanders into the mall looking for a shave and finds Jeanne, the woman he loved 30 years before when he was a soldier stationed in France.
"Window Shopping" was made in 1986 and looks it. Beginning with the opening credits, presented against a montage of the well-shod feet of women purposefully crisscrossing the mall's marble floor, the film is as determinedly stylish as all those magazines that came out in the mid-80's designed for up-market readers.
Seen today, in the midst of a recession, "Window Shopping" appears to be both an artifact of a bygone era and possibly something of an omen. That may not have been Miss Akerman's intention. Yet, like any work of substance, "Window Shopping" seems somehow prescient. It is so naturally accurate that the slow bust that followed the 80's boom now seems to be its subtext.
This is not to overload the movie with solemn import, only to suggest that although the movie is a fairy tale, it is not necessarily out of touch.
The two parallel love triangles, involving Lili, Robert and Mado and Jeanne, Eli and Monsieur Schwartz, are worked out in a lightly satiric fashion that is enriched by Marc Herouet's romantic and comic score and Miss Akerman's lyrics, which are translated with a good deal of unexpected wit by English subtitles.
How great it is to see Seyrig looking so beautiful, so intelligent and so amused, although "Window Shopping" was one of the last films she made before her death last year. This great actress, whose first two films were Robert Frank's "Pull My Daisy" and Alain Resnais's "Last Year in Marienbad," was as much at ease in avant-garde films, including those of Miss Akerman and Marguerite Duras, as she was in Francois Truffaut's and Luis Bunuel's.
Another standout in "Window Shopping" is Miss Cottencon who, although she has made a number of films in France, will probably be new to American audiences. She's a pretty, slightly brassy comic presence as the scheming beautician who loses her heart to a man all wrong for her, at least financially.
At the end of the film, Seyrig's Jeanne comes up out of the mall into the light of the real day. The sun appears incredibly bright and warm. Until that moment, the real world has been forgotten, which is possibly just what Miss Akerman intended. "Window Shopping" is both sweet and a little spooky.
 
Window Shopping
Directed by Chantal Akerman; screenplay by Ms. Akerman, Jean Gruault, Leora Barish, Henry Bean and Pascal Bonitzer (in French with English subtitles); directors of photography, Gilberto Azevedo and Luc Benhamou; edited by Francine Sandberg; music by Marc Herouet; production designer, Serge Marzolff; produced by Martine Marignac; released by World Artists. At Le Cinematographe, 15 Vandam Street, Manhattan. Running time: 96 minutes. This film has no rating.
 
Sylvie . . . Miriam Boyer
Eli . . . John Berry
Jeanne . . . Delphine Seyrig
Robert . . . Nicolas Tronc
Mado . . . Lio
Pascale . . . Pascale Salkin
Lili . . . Fanny Cottencon
Monsieur Schwartz . . . Charles Denner
Monsieur Jean . . . Jean-Francois Balmer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WINDOW SHOPPING (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS FILM (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); COMEDY FILMS (70%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: CANBY, VINCENT JACQUES DEMY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



562 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The U.S. merchandise trade deficit narrowed sharply to $3.38 billion in February, with exports reaching a record and imports falling slightly. The deficit, smaller than most economists expected, gladdened Administration officials. [Page D1.]
New jobless claims fell in the latest week to a five-month low, suggesting that the recovery is inching forward. [D2.] 
 Sharp limits on silicone gel breast implants were ordered by the F.D.A. while safety tests are carried out. [A1.]
 
International
Carlo de Benedetti was convicted of fraud by an Italian court on charges stemming from the sensational 1982 collapse of Banco Ambrosiano, once Italy's largest private bank. [D1.]
A ban on American beer imports was announced by an Ontario government agency. [D2.]
 
Companies
I.B.M. announced a portable computer controlled with a pen, entering a new market unusually quickly. [D1.]
Citibank said it would reduce credit card interest rates for nine million of its best customers. [D1.]
McDonald's is stepping up its expansion overseas, with its profits abroad growing nearly three times as fast as at home. [D1.]
A big creditor of 47th Street Photo withdrew its request for a court-ordered liquidation. [D4.]
Caterpillar said it would rehire all workers who have been on strike, with most back my Monday. [A12.]
An 8 percent premium increase for Blue Cross subscribers in New Jersey was approved by a state commissioner. [B5.]
 
Earnings
Sears, Roebuck reported a 36 percent jump in earnings, as most of its businesses improved. Its retail operations continued to benefit from cost-cutting efforts. [D1.]
Microsoft posted increased revenues and earnings, citing strong sales through original equipment manufacturers. [D2.] Nynex and Southwestern Bell had double-digit gains. [D2.]
Texas Instruments had its first profitable quarter since the fall of 1990, benefiting from cost-cutting. [D4.]
BankAmerica said it had a $303 million profit, while Security Pacific said it lost $496.3 million. [D6.] Philip Morris's profits more than doubled. [D6.] Bristol-Myers Squibb said its income rose 11.1 percent. [D6.]
Grumman and Lockheed reported strong earnings increases, a reflection of the efforts of military contractors to adapt to a period of deep Pentagon cuts. [D13.]
 
Markets
Blue-chip stocks edged higher in jagged trading, as sporadic selling cooled the week's rally. The Dow rose 12.74, to 3,366.50, a third record, but other indicators dipped. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds fell on surprisingly good trade and jobless claim numbers. [D13.]
The dollar rose against most currencies. Gold prices were higher in the U.S. but mixed abroad. [D14.]
Coffee futures returned to a 17-year low amid fallout from a global group's failure to devise a price-support system. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
Is liberalism back as the dominant force in U.S. public opinion? It may be on its way. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
"To be continued" -- three popular little words these days, as advertisers, watching the Taster's Choice drama unfold, try serial or episodic campaigns. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
Centocor shares continued their slide as analysts questioned whether the company's flagship drug would ever be approved in this country. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (74%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); COFFEE (73%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); STRIKES (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (54%); BEER & ALE (54%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: CARLO DE BENEDETTI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



563 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 12.74, Closing at Another Record

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON Jr.

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks edged higher yesterday in jagged trading, as sporadic selling cooled the week's rally. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 12.74 points, to 3,366.50, a third consecutive closing record, but other indicators dipped.
The Dow, which weathered two selloffs in the morning and another in the afternoon, was lifted nearly 15 points in the session's final minutes, apparently by index arbitragers who adjusted their positions in expiring futures and options contracts. 
 The Dow has now gained 185 points, or 5.7 percent, in the five sessions since the rally began a week ago.
 
Improving Economic News
 "News on the economic front seems to get better every day," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment strategist for the First Albany Corporation, explaining the market's resilience. "Claims for unemployment were down, and news about the trade deficit gave us a pleasant surprise."
Trading was active yesterday, with 233.2 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, up from 229.7 million on Wednesday. Losing issues led gaining ones by 898 to 805.
The Standard & Poor's Index of 500 stocks was off 0.23 point, to 416.05. Smaller stocks performed worse, as the Nasdaq composite index fell 8.22 points, to 591.81, and the American Exchange composite dropped 1.52 points, to 392.64.
The stock and other financial markets will be closed today for the Good Friday holiday.
The expiration of April futures and options contracts provided some of yesterday's extra action. Arbitragers who took advantage of the abnormally low price of index futures when the Dow fell sharply last week -- buying the futures and selling stock short as a hedge -- bought back that stock at yesterday's close to lock in a profit on the overall transaction.
"You had a sudden torrent of orders," said Harrison Roth, senior options strategist at Cowen & Company. "And it drove stock prices up artificially."
Mr. Johnson said, "Even though things are looking good, prices are very high." The Big Board's most active stock yesterday was General Motors, which rose 2 3/8, to 42 1/4, as analysts predicted that the auto giant, coming off its biggest yearly loss in history in 1991, might report a quarterly gain in earnings soon.
Triton Energy rose 4 3/8, to 33, apparently on the strength of an upbeat analyst's report. Alcoa rose 2, to 76 5/8, extending a climb that began after Monday's report of favorable earnings. TRW rose 3 3/8, to 54 1/8, after announcing quarterly earnings that rose 16 percent.
Several drug and medical-equipment companies faltered yesterday. U.S. Surgical dropped 5 1/8, to 109 7/8, despite reporting an 84 percent increase in quarterly earnings. The stock, with a price/earnings ratio of 72, has raised unusually high expectations among investors.
Pfizer dropped 3 3/8, to 69 3/4, after reporting a 10 percent climb in earnings, while Critical Care America fell 4, to 45 1/2. Merck fell 2 3/8, to 148 7/8, after reporting slower earnings growth on Wednesday.
Baldor Electric, a maker of industrial motors, rose 1 5/8, to 25 3/4, after reporting 7 percent growth in quarterly earnings. Synergen fell 3, to 35 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (70%); COWN (NASDAQ) (64%); GM (NYSE) (52%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GLEACHER & CO INC (70%); COWEN GROUP INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); ALCOA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FUTURES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (85%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); EASTER SEASON (69%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH JR HUGH JOHNSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



564 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: A.T.& T. Signs Pact With Hanoi

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, April 16

 BODY:
The American Telephone and Telegraph Company signed an agreement with Vietnam today on reopening telecommunication links that have been severed since the end of the Vietnam War.
The memorandum, signed by Vietnam's state telecommunications company, paves the way for the first link since the South Vietnamese Government fell to Communist forces from the North in 1975. 
 "I believe that it is a major step forward for the two countries for the role that telecommunications will play in further improving relationships between our two countries and enabling citizens to speak to one another again," said James Hansen, A.T.& T.'s managing director for Southeast Asia.
Washington cut relations with Hanoi and imposed economic sanctions in 1964. It extended the measures to a reunified Vietnam in 1975. But in October, the United States said it was ready to move toward lifting the embargo and resuming diplomatic ties with Hanoi. It said Monday that it would modify the embargo to allow A.T.& T. to re-establish telecommunications links.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) AT&T INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM VIET NAM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



565 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Ontario Joins Beer Dispute Between U.S. and Canada

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 16

 BODY:
Further escalating Canadian-American trade tensions, the Ontario government agency that monopolizes the sale of beer in Canada's most populous province announced a ban Wednesday night on American beer imports.
The surprise action, which was made without prior knowledge or approval of the federal authorities in Ottawa, came in response to an American threat to impose duties of up to $8 a case on beer imported from Canada, effective April 13. 
 The move by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, which came as trade negotiators for both countries are locked in talks in Ottawa to try to resolve the dispute, affects about $70 million worth of beer sold in Ontario annually by such companies as Stroh and Heileman. Other leading brewers, like Miller Brewing, Anheuser-Busch and Coors, are not affected to a great extent because they have licensing arrangements allowing Canadian brewers to produce and sell their beers.
That sum, rung up in 625 provincial retail outlets, represents 3 percent of beer sales in the province and is about one-third of total American beer sales in Canada.
 
Moved Called Unhelpful
 While the Office of the United States Trade Representative had no official comment, some American officials speaking privately called the move unhelpful.
On the Canadian side, Marthe St. Louis, an aide in the federal trade department, said it was purely a business decision by the Ontario board, seeking to protect its commercial interests.
Privately, however, some Ottawa officials were described as miffed at Ontario's intrusion into a difficult trade conflict with the United States, but the International Trade Department of the Ministry of External Affairs stressed that Ontario was well within its jurisdiction. The Progressive Conservative Party controls the national Government, while the socialist-leaning New Democratic Party is in power in Ontario.
American brewers reacted strongly. Christopher T. Sortwell, senior vice president of the Stroh Brewery Company of Detroit, labeled it "an absurd action by an apparently panicked Canadian brewing industry."
The Canadian provinces took over beer and liquor retailing in the late 1920's, a decision that was made at the time Americans had Prohibition.
The roots of the trade dispute go to an American complaint against restrictive pricing and distribution practices that the provinces now use to protect markets and jobs for the Canadian industry.
 
Washington Wins a Ruling
 Nearly four years ago, the United States brought its complaint to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which ruled late last year in Washington's favor, citing techniques used to keep out foreign beer, including administrative charges, distribution levies, high retail markups and outright prohibitions.
Canada now says it is willing to get rid of its restrictions within three years, but Washington has threatened retaliation if the Canadians do not open the market by July 1.
The United States was set to impose duties on Canadian imports last Monday, but at the last minute, Ottawa made a peace offer that is now being negotiated in Ottawa. At the same time Ottawa warned that any American retaliation would be met by immediate and matching countermoves.
Chris Layton, a spokesman for the Ontario board, denied that the agency was seeking to become involved in trade policy. He said the action was taken because beer sales are very price sensitive. He said the board did not want to be left with a lot of beer it could not sell.
The beer fight is only one of a series erupting in recent months; others involve lumber, automobiles and carpets. Even as the two countries are talking with Mexico about expanding North American free trade, the bilateral tensions have increased, aggravated by a recession that has raised sensitivity about jobs on both sides of the border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BUD (PAR) (90%); BUD (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (90%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (90%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (65%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (90%); STROH BREWERY CO (65%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ONTARIO (CANADA); UNITED STATES; CANADA CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BEER; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); BEER & ALE (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (90%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BREWERIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



566 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Jobless-Pay Claims Drop

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
New claims for jobless benefits fell in the latest week to a five-month low, the Government said today in a report that suggested the economic recovery was inching forward.
The Labor Department said the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits declined for the second straight week, falling 18,000, to 415,000, in the week that ended April 4. 
 Americans filed 433,000 claims during the previous week and 456,000 two weeks earlier.
The Bush Administration hailed the report as a sign that the trend of job losses was reversing.
"Today's report indicates that business activity is strengthening and layoffs are on the decline," Labor Secretary Lynn Martin said. Unemployment and the recession are top issues in the Presidential campaign.
The number of unemployment claims was the lowest since October, when 414,000 people sought benefits, the department said.
Economists had expected a moderate increase.
"We are probably staring at job growth in the economy," said Donald Ratajczak, director of economic forecasting at Georgia State University. "It is not vigorous, but at this point we are certainly adding jobs."
The four-week average fell to 437,750, from 442,000 and 448,750 in the previous two periods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: LYNN MARTIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



567 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: BankAmerica Profit, Security Pacific Loss

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
On the eve of their merger, two California banking giants were a study in contrasts in the first quarter, with BankAmerica yesterday reporting a 7.4 percent profit gain, to $303 million, while Security Pacific said it lost $496.3 million.
Profits at the BankAmerica Corporation totaled $303 million, or $1.22 a share, up from $282 million, or $1.25 a share, a year earlier. Profit per share declined because the company has issued more than seven million shares of additional stock. 
 While BankAmerica has avoided the worst of the problems that have hurt other California banks as that state's economy weakened and real estate prices fell, the Security Pacific Corporation's holdings of bad loans have risen steadily since the merger was announced in August.
Nonperforming assets at BankAmerica, badly delinquent loans plus real estate acquired through foreclosure, fell to $2.95 billion from $3.11 billion a year ago and $3.08 billion at the end of the year. At Security Pacific, nonperforming assets increased to $3.45 billion from $2.32 billion a year ago and $2.75 billion at the end of the year.
But despite the problems at Security Pacific, BankAmerica officials say they are satisfied with the merger, and have not changed the agreement to issue 0.88 share of BankAmerica stock for each Security Pacific share.
 
Problems From Poor Loans
 Banking analysts say the rapid increase in loan problems at Security Pacific reflects the poor-quality loans made when the bank was independent, and an intensive effort by the companies to examine all Security Pacific's loans according to the standards used at BankAmerica.
If the loan losses had not been recognized by Security Pacific during the last few quarters, it would only have created a bigger problem when the merger was completed and BankAmerica set its own estimate on the value of all Security Pacific's loans.
On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, BankAmerica's shares gained 87.5 cents, to $43.50, while Security Pacific's followed in lockstep, adding 75 cents, to $38.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANKAMERICA CORP; SECURITY PACIFIC CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKAMERICA CORP; SECURITY PACIFIC CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



568 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Citibank's Credit Card Rates To Be Cut for Best Customers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
Citibank, defending its position as the leading issuer of bank credit cards, said yesterday that it would reduce interest rates for nine million of its best card customers at the end of the month. The banking company is also planning other features, including a card that bears a photograph of its holder, to bolster its business.
The moves by Citibank, with more than 30 million credit card customers, come when competition is rising and interest rates are generally declining. That has led many other card issuers to reduce their interest rates, cut or eliminate annual fees and offer extra benefits. 
 Citibank said it would reduce its rates to 13.9 percent, from 15.8 percent, for some holders of its "preferred," or gold, Visa and Mastercards, and to 15.9 percent, from 19.8 percent, for some holders of its "classic" cards.
The new rates will be adjusted quarterly, at 7.4 percentage points above the prime rate for preferred cards and at 9.4 percentage points above prime for classic cards.
The lower rates will be assigned to customers with good payment records, and who are significant card users. Customers who use Citibank for other banking needs will also be favored. The lower rate will not apply to Choice cards, which already carry a 15.9 percent rate, or to holders of Advantage cards, which earn free travel on American Airlines as they are used. Eligibility for the lower rates will be reviewed quarterly.
Susan Weeks, a Citibank spokeswoman, said the photo cards "have been immensely popular in the New York test because they help guard against use of stolen cards, and they are another form of I.D." The company also plans to issue photo cards to customers in parts of the country with no Citibank branches, she said, but declined to provide details.
Although many banks already charge lower interest rates than the new ones set by Citibank, analysts said the company's prominence in the crowded credit card business would heighten the pressure on other banks to lower their rates.
Earlier this year, the American Express Company lowered interest rates for holders of its Optima card. Late last year, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, whose Universal card has been one of the fastest growing in the industry, reduced interest rates sooner than required by its floating-rate formula.
"Over the next three months, there will probably be a dozen different banks announcing lower rates for some customers," said David Robertson, the president of The Nilson Report, an industry newsletter based in Santa Monica, Calif. "Their aim will be to keep their best customers and give them an incentive to use their card, rather than a competitor's."
 
Outstanding Balances Up
 Robert B. McKinley, the president of RAM Research, a company based in Frederick, Md., that monitors the card industry, noted that outstanding credit card balances grew by 28 percent last year at banks that offered lower interest rates, while the industry as a whole grew by only 7.9 percent. Citibank's customer base has not grown in the last year.
James Bailey, the head of Citibank's credit card business, said, "We decided to pass along some of our expense savings to protect the franchise."
Mr. Bailey said that customer feedback to Citibank's 3,000 telephone operators clearly pointed toward a need to reduce rates. "People called to say they were good customers, interest rates were down, and ask what we could do for them, and how we could be fair," he said.
He said the lower interest rates would not have any significant effect on the profits of Citibank's credit card business, because the rate cuts will be offset by increased use of the cards, as well as reduced attrition, and a lower cost of financing loans on cards that carry a floating rate rather than a fixed interest rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (84%); T (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CITIBANK (NYC) AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); AT&T INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST (MONEY) CREDIT CARDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



569 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Overseas Sizzle for McDonald's

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
With its profits abroad growing nearly three times as fast as those at home, McDonald's is stepping up the pace of its expansion overseas.
Last year, for the first time, McDonald's opened more restaurants overseas than in the United States: 427 abroad, compared with just 188 in the United States. The company plans to open 450 in foreign countries and 250 in the United States this year, with Latin America and Asia expected to be the fastest-growing areas. 
 "We made the decision to push the international development a little harder," said James Cantalupo, president and chief executive of McDonald's International. "We will increase the pace each year."
Already, the top 10 McDonald's restaurants in sales and profits are on foreign soil. In just two years, more than half of McDonald's profits are expected to come from restaurants overseas.
The busiest McDonald's are in Moscow, on the Champs-Elysees in Paris and in central Rome. With far less competition abroad, the average McDonald's overseas does 25 percent more business than its counterpart in the United States.
McDonald's has had little choice but to look abroad in the face of slow growth at home. And although domestic sales could well pick up when the recession ends, McDonald's priorities for new outlets have clearly shifted abroad.
Next week, the company plans to open a store in central Beijing, on a main shopping street a few blocks from Tiananmen Square. "Eight hundred thousand people walk past our front door every day," Mr. Cantalupo said.
McDonald's recently opened its first stores in Czechoslovakia, Greece and Portugal. The first McDonald's will soon open in Poland and Brunei. At the end of 1991, McDonald's had 12,418 restaurants, with 8,764 in the United States and 3,654 abroad.
In another sign of the new emphasis, last week, McDonald's announced plans for its first unified global advertising campaign. The corporation will be a sponsor of the 1994 World Cup soccer playoffs, which will be held in the United States. While the company will continue to tailor most of its advertising to local markets, the World Cup sponsorship demonstrates the economies of scale that are benefiting McDonald's as its overseas presences grows.
It used to take up to 10 years for an overseas McDonald's to turn a profit. In fact, it often took years just to secure a prime location and find the right suppliers of meat and potatoes to even open a restaurant overseas. Having refined its systems so that some foreign outlets can turn a profit in just a year or two, the company is expanding more quickly into new regions.
With McDonald's in 60 countries, when it opens a new market, there is generally a country nearby that can help out with supplies and management talent. For instance, when it opened stores in Indonesia in 1990, it relied on a network of suppliers from Malaysia and Singapore. Indonesian operations turned a profit in its first year.
Although it seeks suburban sites in the United States, when moving into a new country McDonald's aggressively sets up shop in the main shopping area of the largest city. The prominent locations attract a great deal of attention.
"We forget that the average person in Indonesia probably never heard of McDonald's," said Jack Greenberg, the company's vice chairman and chief financial officer.
In focusing beyond United States borders, McDonald's is seeking to emulate the success of the purveyor of another American icon, the Coca-Cola Company. Coke now earns 80 percent of its profits outside the United States, with its fast-growing international markets making it a star performer on Wall Street. But McDonald's earnings and stock price have lagged of late, with slow growth at home the main ailment.
"McDonald's is similar to Coca-Cola 10 years ago," said Becky Barfield, an analyst with First Boston. "It's on the verge of becoming an international giant, with the United States as a major market, but overseas as the driving force."
Coke is in 185 countries.
 
Mostly in Six Countries
 Twenty-five years after McDonald's opened its first store outside the United States in the Canadian province of British Columbia, three-quarters of the company's foreign restaurants are in six countries: Japan, Canada, England, Germany, Australia and France.
When McDonald's moves into a new market, it generally maintains ownership of most of the restaurants. But as the company becomes better known in each country, it increases the number of franchises.
The operation in each country runs fairly autonomously, with its own managing director who is generally a native of the country. In fact, McDonald's has only 25 United States executives posted abroad. McDonald's hires local real estate experts to find the best sites and recruits local advertising executives to tailor advertising to each country's consumers.
"Our objective is to be a local company," Mr. Cantalupo said.
Still, foreign executives running McDonald's operations in other countries are required to make pilgrimages to Hamburger University, McDonald's executive training center in Oak Brook, Ill., a suburb of Chicago.
McDonald's can still spend years cultivating suppliers in a country before it is ready to open. In China, the local potatoes did not make good french fries, so company food technologists spent seven years working to develop a new strain. "Now the Chinese have a new potato that McDonald's helped them with," Mr. Greenberg said.
The company plans to open 20 more stores in China, investing $50 million in the next three years.
While there is far less competition internationally, the company does face risks overseas. Profits can hurt when exchange rates fluctuate. And a global presence subjects the company to a wide range of economic conditions. Last year, poor sales in Canada and England hurt the company's overall profits.
Still, McDonald's needs the fast-growing foreign markets to improve its earning growth. Last year, the company's profits increased by 7 percent, a disappointing rate for a company accustomed to growing twice as fast. Facing swarms of competitors and customers resistant to price rises, profits are expected to grow by 6 percent a year in the United States.
But abroad, profits have recently grown by an average of 28 percent a year.
"It's the most important part of their future growth," said Ron Paul, president of Technomic, a food consulting firm in Chicago.
In 1991, 37 percent of McDonald's sales and 40 percent of the company's operating income came from outside the United States. McDonald's revenues were $6.6 billion and operating income was $1.67 billion last year.
But not all analysts think the international business will lift the performance of the company as a whole. "You still own the whole company," said Michael Mueller, an analyst with Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "The United States market is still at risk. That's where they have most of their restaurants."
McDonald's officials, of course, are not as gloomy about the company's domestic prospects. "The U.S. growth market has a lot of growth in it," said Mr. Greenberg, the chief financial officer. Even though growth has slowed in the United States, he said, McDonald's is opening hundreds of stores a year in this country. It closes a handful each year.
 
The Menus Vary Somewhat
 Menus are remarkably similar across the globe, offering the basic burgers, fries and shakes. In Asia, where chicken is more popular than beef, the company sells a lot of its chicken sandwiches.
Regional variations are also tolerated. In the Philippines, which has a low per capita income, the company sells an inexpensive spaghetti dish. In New Zealand, local managers have put Kiwi Burgers, featuring beet root sauce, on the menu. The company has even tested products in the United States that originated overseas, like an "Oriental" chicken salad developed in Germany.
Mostly, customers who go to McDonald's restaurants around the world want to eat hamburgers, just as the Americans they see on television and in movies do. "McDonald's stands for American culture," said Mr. Paul, the food consultant.
But there are still a few places where burgers do not travel well. India is the one major market that has not yet been graced by the Golden Arches. Although Government restrictions on foreign investment are loosening, many Indians avoid eating beef for religious reasons. "We are looking at India," Mr. Cantalupo said. "We haven't totally figured that one out yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: McDonald's plans to open more restaurants overseas this year than in the United States. A few weeks ago, construction workers raised the company's golden arches symbol over the McDonald's store being built in the center of Beijing, which is scheduled to open for business next week. (Reuters) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "More Profit Abroad" shows the McDonald's operating income per outlet in 1991. Figures include both company-owned restaurants and thos owned by franchisees.
 
Europe: $269,225
Canada: $188,006
Latin America: $183,491
U.S.: $114,149
Asian and Pacific nations: $107,819
 
(Source: Company reports) (pg. D1)
 
Graph: "Overseas Growth at McDonald's" tracks number of stores and amount of sales both within and outside the U.S. from 1981 through 1991. (Source: Company reports) (pg. D4)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CHINA (90%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); GREECE (53%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP MCDONALD'S CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CHINA (90%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); FRANCE (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); GREECE (53%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION (85%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SOCCER (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (61%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



570 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Texas Instruments Reports First Profit Since Late 1990

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 16

 BODY:
Texas Instruments Inc., benefiting from cost-cutting programs, higher royalty payments and improving demand for its engineering products and computers chips, reported its first profitable quarter since the fall of 1990.
Net income totaled $40 million, or 35 cents a share, compared with a loss of $54 million in the comparable period last year. The company's revenues rose by 3 percent, to $1.69 billion. 
 Texas Instruments, based in Dallas, said it had trimmed 5,300 jobs last year through layoffs or voluntary retirement programs, and had reduced its work force by an additional 1,100 through layoffs, to a total of 61,806 employees at the end of March.
 
Royalty Income Higher
 The retrenchment lowered costs and contributed to ending the string of six consecutive unprofitable quarters. The company reported a big increase in royalty income, to $95 million, including a one-time payment of $30 million from two Japanese companies, from $76 million in the 1991 quarter.
Profit from operations amounted to $63 million, compared with a loss of $35 million. Texas Instruments' capital spending was also slashed, to $80 million from $157 million.
"We are beginning to see gradual improvement in the U.S. economy," said Jerry R. Junkins, the chairman and chief executive. "Distribution orders for semiconductors are on an upward trend, which is a good leading indicator. We now expect the U.S. semiconductor market to grow about 13 percent, a slight increase from our forecast earlier this year."
 
Chip Unit Sales Up
 Sales in the company's computer chip unit, which contributes nearly half of overall revenues, rose by 7 percent in the quarter, mainly because of rising shipments of custom chips, known as application-specific integrated circuits.
Yet losses in the unit narrowed despite falling chip prices, Texas Instruments said, but the size of the loss was not disclosed. Sales in Japan were weak, and growth in the overall chip market in Japan is expected to decline this year by 2 percent, Mr. Junkins said.
Over all, the world market for computer chips is projected to grow by 8 percent, to $59 billion this year, "with stronger growth going into 1993," he said. Production efficiencies improved at several Texas Instruments plants, and output of chips with four million characters of memory has increased at new plants in Taiwan and Italy, the company said.
 
Military Revenues Off 9%
 Cutbacks in military orders pared revenues in the company's military electronics unit by 9 percent, but profit margins increased. Orders to restock military hardware used during the Persian Gulf war, such as Navy aircraft missiles, amounted to $400 million in 1991 and should total that this year.
Texas Instruments' shares rose $1 each, to $36.25, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (97%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (97%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (79%); TEXAS, USA (91%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS LAYOFFS (91%); ROYALTIES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (87%); SEMICONDUCTORS (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); DEFENSE ORDERS (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C JERRY R JUNKINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



571 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: February Trade Gap Narrowed

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
The nation's merchandise trade deficit narrowed sharply to $3.38 billion in February, with exports reaching a record and imports falling slightly.
The deficit, smaller than most economists expected, gladdened Administration officials, who are looking for an election-year bonus in export sales to help lead the nation into recovery. 
 Over all, exports rose 6.8 percent in February, to $37.81 billion, from $35.41 billion in January. Imports fell four-tenths of 1 percent, to $41.20 billion from $41.36 billion.
Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, pointed out that if the rest of the year followed the pattern of January and February together, then this year's trade deficit could total as little as $56 billion, down from $66.26 billion last year. But many private sector economists predict that the trade deficit will actually widen this year, as economic recovery in the United States draws in more imports while recessions in Japan and many European countries dampen growth in American exports.
 
Jump in Aircraft Sales
 They noted that more than one-third of the February jump in exports came from a $909 million increase in shipments of commercial aircraft and parts. "That may have been a one-shot deal," said Brian M. Jones, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc., who pointed out that aircraft worth $100 million or more apiece are often delivered in bunches.
But Mr. Jones and other economists said that even leaving aircraft shipments aside, they were surprised by how much exports increased.
Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley, said, "I was looking for a $5 billion deficit, which was a little more optimistic than the consensus but hardly consistent with the sharp narrowing of the deficit."
In another bit of upbeat news, the Government reported that the number of workers filing unemployment claims in early April declined significantly for the second consecutive week. [Page D2.]
 
Some Price Advantages
 February's trade deficit, which followed a gap of $5.95 billion in January, was the smallest since a $2.84 billion deficit in March 1983. Several monthly deficits in the last year have been the lowest since 1983, as the low value of the dollar and small annual cost increases for American manufacturers have erased the $100 billion-plus annual deficits of the late 1980's.
For the last year, rapid growth in exports to third world has been offsetting stagnation in shipments to industrialized markets. But today's figures also showed a widening of the trade surplus with Western Europe, to $2.63 billion from $1.69 billion in January.
The politically sensitive trade deficit with Japan shrank to $2.97 billion from $3.82 billion in January, while the deficit with China dwindled to $1.23 billion from $1.40 billion.
Excluding oil, imports rose slightly. The nation imported less oil and paid 43 cents less a barrel in February than in January.
Exports of high-technology products, including not only aircraft but sophisticated medical and telecommunications equipment, jumped to $9.2 billion from $7.9 billion. Imports of these goods edged up to $5.1 billion from $4.9 billion in January.
Administration trade officials used the report to push their various causes. Barbara H. Franklin, the new Commerce Secretary, who is organizing a Cabinet-level review next week of Government assistance to industries, said in a statement that sustaining strong exports made it necessary "that we intensify trade promotion efforts in partnership with the private sector."
Mrs. Hills greeted the growth in exports as a sign that the United States was better off trying to open foreign markets than protecting its own market. "They're very, very strong," she said. "They continue to show how important it is to open markets."
But Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., the president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington public policy group, disagreed with assessment by Mrs. Hills. "Do these numbers reflect an opening of foreign markets?" he asked. "If it's mostly aircraft, that doesn't reflect the opening of markets."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Balance of Trade" tracks imports, exports, and deficit from March 1991 to February 1992. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT SALOMON BROTHERS INC (67%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); SHIPMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CARLA A HILLS (70%); BRIAN M JONES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



572 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Notes and Bonds Fall

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Surprisingly good trade and jobless claim numbers combined yesterday with the risks that accompany a long holiday weekend to push down prices of Treasury notes and bonds, sending interest rates higher.
Credit market participants sold securities almost immediately after the Government reported that exports rose to a record in February and that the merchandise trade deficit fell to its lowest level since March 1983. 
 A report from the Labor Department showing that initial unemployment claims fell to a five-month low in the week ended April 4 provided additional momentum to the selloff. Most analysts had been looking for a slight increase in claims.
It was the second straight rise, and it prompted analysts to suggest that employment conditions may be improving slightly.
So, too, did the long weekend, as traders chose to lighten up positions rather than run the risk of any adverse developments that might take place between now and Monday.
Although the Chicago Board of Trade operated on an abbreviated schedule yesterday, credit-market traders said that volume remained light.
"The thin conditions exaggerated the price declines," analysts at MMS International, an economic information and service company, noted in their daily market commentary, "and much of the selling pressure came from position squaring rather than outright market bearishness."
On the advice of the Public Securities Association, an industry trade group, trading in the Government securities market halted at 2 P.M., Eastern time. The market will be closed today in observance of Good Friday.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 10026/32 , down 5/8 point, to yield 7.92 percent, compared with 7.87 percent late Wednesday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 10014/32 , down 18/32 , to yield 7.43 percent. The 6 7/8 percent five-year notes were offered at 10017/32 , down 14/32 , to yield 6.74 percent. And the 5 3/4 percent two-year notes were offerd at 10027/32 , down 7/32 , to yield 5.28 percent.
Rates on short-term Treasury bills moved higher.
Three-month bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 3.64 percent, up four basis points, or four one-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates rose by five basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.76 percent. And one-year bill rates rose by eight basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.02 percent.
Late in the day the Federal Reserve Board reported that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply grew during the week ended April 6. The broadest money measure, M-3, fell by $4.8 billion.
The Fed issued its report after traders had gone home for the long weekend.
Business was very slow in the investment-grade corporate and tax-exempt municipal bond markets.
No new corporate or municipal debt issues were priced yesterday.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt securities said that prices of most widely quoted municipal bonds fell by 1/4 point to 3/8 point.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, Jan. 1992-April 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (69%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY) UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



573 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Higher as Data Show Good U.S. Economic News

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most major currencies yesterday on better-than-expected jobless figures and trade data.
Gold prices were higher in the United States but mixed abroad. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery rose $1.40 a troy ounce, to $337.40. Later, the Republic National Bank in New York quoted an ounce of gold bullion at $337, up $1.30. 
 Currency dealers said trading was sluggish ahead of the Good Friday holiday. The currency markets will be open in the United States but closed in Europe today and Monday for the Easter weekend, which is expected to curb currency dealings here.
The Labor Department reported that 415,000 workers applied for unemployment benefits during the week ended April 4, the fewest since late October and down from 433,000 a week earlier.
 
Trade Deficit Improves
 The Government also said the United States trade deficit improved dramatically in February, falling to $3.38 billion -- the best showing in nearly nine years and a big improvement from January's $5.95 billion.
The positive United States economic data dampened any potential profit taking ahead of the long weekend, said Mike Faust, a currency dealer with MMS International.
"The dollar continued to rally today, so people who might have sold out after this week's good performance held on," Mr. Faust said.
Fears of increased Middle East tension after the United Nations imposed sanctions against Libya should support the dollar over the weekend, he added. The dollar is considered a safe-haven investment in times of political turmoil.
In New York, the dollar rose to 133.95 Japanese yen, from 133.38 late Wednesday. In Tokyo, the dollar rose to 133.45 yen from 133.25 Wednesday. In London, it rose to 133.90 yen.
The dollar strengthened against sterling. In New York, the pound closed at $1.7460, down from $1.7550 Wednesday. In London, sterling fell to $1.7477 from $1.7570.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Wednesday's late levels, were: 1.6685 German marks, up from 1.6625; 1.5440 Swiss francs, up from 1.5330; 5.6405 French francs, up from 5.6230; 1,254.25 Italian lire, up from 1,249.00, and 1.18215 Canadian dollars, up from 1.17925.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (70%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (70%); GERMANY (56%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE CURRENCIES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BRITISH POUND (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



574 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Is Liberalism Back in Saddle?

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:

I often think it's comical
How nature always does contrive
That every boy and every gal,
That's born into this world alive,
Is either a little Liberal
Or else a little Conservative.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN wrote those lines in 1882, about the political-genetic coding of the English. But they have never applied to American voters. Americans shift from liberal to conservative to liberal with the changes of generations, the rise and fall of crises and issues and the ability of particular Presidents to dominate the public agenda. 
 After 12 conservative Reagan-Bush years, is liberalism back as the dominant force in American public opinion? William G. Mayer, a political scientist at Northeastern University, has concluded after a detailed analysis of a great deal of survey data, that liberals have made up much of the ground they lost to conservatives in the late 1970's. Looking backward, he finds "stability" in political attitudes between 1960 and 1965, a "liberal shift" from 1966 to 1973, a "right turn" from 1974 to 1980, and, against the conventional wisdom, a "liberal resurgence" from 1981 to 1988.
In the spring issue of The Public Interest, a journal not known for having a liberal bias, Mr. Mayer offers evidence of the return of liberalism on a wide range of issues -- including military spending, relations with the former Soviet Union, taxes, domestic spending and environmental protection. In addition to those areas, he finds that from 1981 to 1988 public opinion shifted toward liberalism on many other issues, including racial equality, busing, the size and power of government, nuclear energy and the role and status of women.
In 1980, half the public agreed with the statement that "the Government in Washington is getting too powerful for the good of the country and the individual person." In 1988, only one-third felt that way.
Support for greater spending for the environment, health care, education and even welfare all increased, according to survey data. But there remains a contradiction between what people want government to do and what they are willing to pay for. However, the belief that Federal income taxes were too high declined from 68 percent in 1980 to 55 percent in 1988. In 1980, a majority of Americans favored higher military spending; by 1988 only 15 percent did.
The shift to what Mr. Mayer identifies as liberal views did not apply across the board. Issues on which public opinion exhibited little or no change toward either liberalism or conservatism included public attitudes toward business, gun control, sexual mores, foreign aid, government assistance for the poor, the balanced budget amendment, the United Nations and military intervention. Public opinion did become more conservative on a small number of issues, including business profits, crime and punishment, divorce, abortion and economic rights and privileges.
Mr. Mayer finds in the latest data important implications for the 1992 election. At a minimum, he says, "they indicate that new Democratic initiatives in such areas as education, day care and health care will receive a considerably more sympathetic reception than they would have 12 years ago."
Recession, economic stagnation and unemployment during recent years have doubtless intensified the public desire to have Government play a more active role in economic problem solving.
Among American economists, there appears to be a reassertion of the importance of using government to correct market failures and a greater realism about what "the magic of the market," as Mr. Reagan called it, cannot do.
In a new book, "Eminent Economists," edited by Michael Szenberg of Pace University, several prominent economists speak up for greater stress on human values in economics and economic policy making. Richard A. Musgrave of Harvard and the University of California at Santa Cruz, declared: "The miracle of the invisible hand by which self-interest yields the common good only goes that far, as Adam Smith in his 'Theory of Moral Sentiments' well knew."
But cycles of public opinion, or the ideas of economists, do not, at least in the short run, determine the outcome of elections or even the political-economic character of an Administration. Despite the shift toward liberalism apparently going on even during the Reagan years, a President may dominate public opinion.
"It was Ronald Reagan's intuitive understanding of this point," Mr. Mayer says, "that helps explain why liberalism was so timid and dormant up through the end of his Administration." And he adds, "It is precisely this power that George Bush has largely abdicated, particularly in the realm of economic policy, over the last three years."
The big question for the 1992 election is whether the Democrats have overcome their timidity and have found a leader capable of exploiting the shift of public opinion toward a more activist government role to solve social and economic problems -- or whether the incumbent President can ride that tide by presenting himself as the agent of change.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LIBERALISM (96%); CONSERVATISM (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (86%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (72%); WOMEN (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); BUDGETS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); GUN CONTROL (60%); INCOME TAX (60%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD WILLIAM G MAYER (88%); RONALD WILSON REAGAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



575 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Behold, in Russia: Democracy!

 BODY:
Americans watching the turmoil in the Russian Parliament this week have two reasons to be pleased, even thankful. Moscow's young reformers, confronted by strong opposition, triumphed on the economic front. What made the victory even sweeter, the struggle provided reassuring evidence that a rough-and-tumble parliamentary democracy is beginning to take shape.
In the midst of crisis, with the structure of the economy and constitution at issue, politicians devised a workable compromise. Those who expected President Yeltsin to strong-arm or short-circuit the Parliament waited in vain. The process left many loose ends but it worked, giving reformers the leeway needed for essential changes. 
 The victory probably would have been impossible without the promise of Western aid. That aid armed the reformers with an argument and a bargaining chip to persuade waverers. The Government's threat to resign, jeopardizing Western aid, was enough to carry the day.
The struggle in Russia's Parliament posed a familiar choice about the speed of reform. Politicians agonized anew about whether to plunge into the cold bath of markets or to protect themselves against reaction to hardship by hesitating or going slow. But there's something bigger behind the debate, a struggle for power.
Too rapid a leap to privatization could undermine the managers of state enterprises and collective farms who ran the old Communist economy and whose support is essential if reforms are to succeed. They dismiss the young architects of reform around Mr. Yeltsin, like Deputy Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar, and want a greater say in the reform process. For prime minister they prefer one of their own, like Arkady Volsky, who heads an organization of state-owned enterprises.
The Parliament, which was chosen before Boris Yeltsin was elected President, amply reflects the views of local power brokers -- often those who head large industrial companies or collective farms. The powerful speaker, Ruslan Khasbulatov, acts as their spokesman.
One obvious course for the Yeltsin Government might have been to call new elections. But the current economic distress puts the outcome of an election in doubt. Instead, Mr. Gaidar and the other reformers threatened to resign. Their departure would have demolished the reform program and imperiled Western aid.
Their stratagem worked. Even Russia's news media did their part to nourish the democratic process, keeping the public closely informed with leaked documents and TV interviews.
Americans need not take sides in the power struggle, nor try to dictate the precise pace of reform. But they can watch with pleasure how reform moves forward -- through politics that is confusing, ragged and even rough. Good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TRENDS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: BORIS YELTSIN (91%); YEGOR GAIDAR (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



576 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
$1.5 Trillion 'Defense'

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
We face no serious military threats. Our economy stagnates and our country crumbles. And still our President and a Congressional majority commit us to spend nearly $1.5 trillion over the next five years on "defense."
The threats billboarded again by Defense Secretary Cheney yesterday seem mostly a mirage. 
 The real threats to our national security come far less from abroad than from within our own borders -- not from Mr. Cheney's vague uncertainties and faceless enemies, but from the certainty of internal rot; not from missile gaps, but mental gaps.
We are threatened by having the office of President of the United States vacant in all but name. George Bush has no clue how to lead America out of the cold war and into a war against deterioration and despair.
We are threatened by the absence of a viable White House alternative. Bill Clinton seems to be saying interesting things, including about cutting defense spending. But his candidacy looks crippled already by public mistrust.
We are threatened by a Congress that cannot legislate its way out of a paper bag. It drowns in partisan gridlock, scandal, indecision and fear. In the last weeks, both the Senate and the House soundly defeated proposals to double Mr. Bush's proposed cuts in military outlays. Few noticed.
We are threatened by the inability of our political system to make an elementary decision about priorities. In the face of obvious and pressing needs, the Washington bunch is actually moving ahead with spending nearly $1.5 trillion -- YES, THAT IS ONE AND A HALF TRILLION DOLLARS -- on Pentagon business between now and 1997. Washington cannot bring itself to cut this windfall by even one-third, or even plan to cut it by one-third.
Maybe Pentagon planners and a few Congressional Martians actually believe the U.S. must shell out $1.5 trillion for "defense." But Earthlings will find that level of prudence to be an extravagance.
The Soviet Union lies in ruins. No other state -- Germany, Japan, Iran or a resurgent Russia, name your nightmare -- can marshal military power to threaten the U.S. for perhaps a generation. Better to worry about underfinanced U.N. peacekeeping forces and unhelped ex-Communist states.
The Pentagon brims over with smart people who could figure out how to defend against these threats for only $1 trillion. But they have every incentive not to be so smart. To plan for deep cuts is to invite deeper cuts.
And smart Pentagon planners know something else that goes to the heart of American politics today: the link between military outlays and good middle-class jobs. If the Pentagon does not show Congress how to make deeper cuts, or more specifically if it produces no plan to convert defense industries to civilian use and retrain those in uniform, then Congress cannot and will not make further spending cuts.
Politicians are not about to tear a million-plus workers from the Pentagon teat, toss them into the ranks of the unemployed and commit political suicide. To eliminate Pentagon jobs, Congress needs to provide new civilian jobs.
By not offering plans for conversion, the Pentagon transforms a military bill into a jobs bill. And it has now become the biggest jobs bill in U.S. history, far bigger than Franklin Roosevelt's W.P.A. during the Depression.
To maintain jobs this way is, by almost any measure, stupid and wasteful. It is stupid because a defense dollar buys fewer jobs than almost any other Federal dollar. Two or three times as many people could be put to work by devoting those same dollars to, say, building roads, bridges and schools. It is wasteful because the extra missiles and submarines being built serve no current military or economic purpose. Spending those same dollars on, say, mass transit and retraining programs would stimulate further economic growth and even more jobs.
Senator Sam Nunn and Representatives Dave McCurdy and Les Aspin are urging conversion planning. But without full Pentagon involvement and without a President to lead, conversion ideas are just talk.
Meantime, there is little to finance peacekeeping operations and put ex-Communist states back on their feet. And there is no peace dividend, nothing left to help ourselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); POLITICS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DICK CHENEY (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



577 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Criticism of the House Bank Is Overdrawn

BYLINE: By Thomas S. Foley; Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, is Speaker of the House.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Yesterday, the House Ethics Committee released the names of current and former members who had at least one overdraft at the former House bank. This final step, following the closing of the bank and other administrative reforms, means the bank story should by rights be over.
The members named yesterday did not abuse their privileges at the bank. It would be more accurate to say that most members were abused by the bank and its practices. 
 The bank was not a bank at all. It was a payroll disbursing office. It did not pay interest or make loans. Unfortunately, it also did not follow accepted commercial record-keeping and reporting practices.
The bank's poor management and failure to follow written rules encouraged carelessness. The House bank has covered overdrafts of members for at least half a century. Congressmen are not paid until after the end of a month; as a result, the bank considered overdrafts a draw against members' accruing salary. Confident of automatic monthly payroll deposits, the bank had little incentive to handle overdrafts as a commercial bank would.
The checking service was underwritten solely with members' deposits. Thus, some members' funds were used to cover overdrafts written by others. Virtually all checks were honored, not one was delayed and no payee lost money. No public funds were ever used or lost.
While the bank honored members' checks, it did not consistently inform members when they had overdrafts. It did not give written notice of overdrafts and arbitrarily gave oral notice to relatively few members. In most cases, members had no idea they had overdrafts. Their monthly statements never reported overdrafts or showed a negative balance. Consequently, many were genuinely surprised to find the bank had attributed overdrafts to their accounts.
According to an American Bankers Association report, if prevailing banking industry standards had been followed, "a significant number of the checks alleged to have been written with insufficient funds would have been, in fact, fully covered."
Since the bank paid no interest on deposits, its administrators did not keep accounts up to date. The bank ordinarily stopped crediting deposits relatively early in the day, sometimes at 11 A.M.; deposits received after the early posting time were credited the next day. Members had no notice of this practice, and reasonably assumed their deposits would cover checks presented the same day, as in commercial banks.
When the General Accounting Office's report of overdrafts was issued in September, the House acted swiftly to close the bank. On April 9, we approved sweeping reforms that will insure professional management.
I do not condone carelessness in any of the House's subordinate operations. I regret that mismanagement of a minor support office has caused so much needless embarrassment to members and unwarranted questions about their integrity.
But what I regret most is that this affair has diverted attention from the urgent issues confronting the country. On March 26, the House passed an education bill that will increase access to higher education for millions of economically disadvantaged Americans. On April 9, the House passed the most significant reform of campaign spending laws in a generation. Neither bill received a fraction of the coverage given to the bank.
Lawmaking is the reason members run for office in the first place. They were not elected to run a bank. Every member, regardless of party, wishes to concentrate on the people's business. That is exactly what the House is now doing. Perhaps this too deserves coverage.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; ETHICS; BANKS AND BANKING ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); ACCOUNTING (62%); 

PERSON: FOLEY, THOMAS S (SPEAKER)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



578 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Why Go to Texas to Repair Verrazano Bridge?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report that Greiner Engineering Inc. of Irving, Tex., has been chosen to design repairs for the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in New York City (Business Day, April 7).
It is both shocking and disappointing to me that the municipal officials responsible for granting this contract were not able to find a competitive engineering and design organization from the many that have their offices in the five boroughs of New York City. As a start, I refer them to the listings in the Manhattan Yellow Pages. 
 If a suitable company could not have been found within the confines of our great metropolis, then they might have chosen such a candidate from one situated in the metropolitan New York area.
The entire New York metropolitan region is suffering from severe unemployment and weak overall business activity, to say the least. Whatever the size of such a contract, the multiple effect on wages, salaries, demand for services, consumer purchases and tax revenue would have been several times the actual value of the repair contract.
Maimonides postulated that if faced with a situation where there is a beggar from afar and there is a beggar from your neighborhood, you must first favor your poor neighbor.
At this time of economic crisis for New York City and New York State, one wonders what the mind-set is of the authorities who send our precious tax dollars to distant areas, when the same skills and talent are probably found in our midst at competitive rates.
 
E. MAGNUS OPPENHEIM
New York, April 7, 1992
 
The writer, an investment adviser and economist, heads a company of registered investment advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: URS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562910 REMEDIATION SERVICES (91%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: URS CORP (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; VERRAZANO-NARROWS BRIDGE (NYC) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); 

PERSON: OPPENHEIM, E MAGNUS E MAGNUS OPPENHEIM NEW YORK (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



579 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Business Tax-Credit Plan Would Aid Arts Groups

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday endorsed a change in tax policy intended to encourage companies to increase their contributions to museums, parks, libraries and other cultural institutions by millions of dollars.
The change would allow companies to take credits for some charitable contributions and apply them against the amount they pay in commercial rent tax. Early reactions by other political figures needed to insure the proposal's ultimate passage were favorable. 
 Those familiar with the proposal said that it could result in the city's libraries, museums and parks receiving as much as $60 million in new contributions. Last year, according to the Department of Finance, corporations gave about $250 million to cultural institutions.
Reactions from the arts community -- hard-pressed by recession-driven cuts in government and corporate contributions over the last two years -- were, for the most part, jubilant.
"Anything that encourages the arts in New York City is wonderful news," said Gillian Attfield, president of the board of directors of the New York City Ballet.
 
Will the City Cut Back?
 But a few arts leaders expressed concern that the city might be using the tax-credit approach to replace its own contributions. "I just hope it's not passing the buck, and that the city will not begin to curtail its own contributions," said Judith Daykin, executive director of the City Center Theater.
In January, the Dinkins administration said that it planned to reduce its arts appropriation for the next fiscal year beginning July 1 by 28 percent, from $87 million to $63 million.
The idea for a tax credit came out of a report presented to the Mayor yesterday by a group of prominent business, labor and political leaders that proposed ways that the city could increase its spending on economic development. Among the other suggestions in the report that the Mayor endorsed was a development bank, to which he committed $50 million in funds from the city's capital budget over the next four years to be used for large public projects that would spur development.
At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Dinkins said he viewed these proposals as signaling that the relationship between the business community and the city was finally changing for the better.
Mr. Dinkins said he hoped the cultural tax credit would become available in January 1993. Those who have researched the proposal estimate that the revenue shortfall to the city could amount to about $30 million a year, with the first impact felt in the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1994.
Businesses would be allowed to take a $1 tax credit for every $2 in contributions they made over what they had given in the past, up to 10 percent of their commercial rent tax. They would be able to choose the institutions that would receive their donations, although certain restrictions would be put in place to insure that contributions were spread across all boroughs and all sizes of institution.
Although city tax officials said they did not believe the cultural tax credit proposal would require state legislative approval, because it did not involve any change in rates, they said it would require approval by the City Council.
Peg Breen, a spokesman for the City Council, said Peter F. Vallone, the majority leader and Speaker, was still studying the report but that, "particularly on the cultural institutions proposal, he had a very favorable first impression."
But Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, said she fears "the commission's approach to giving tax credits for new contributions will prove an administrative nightmare."
Business executives on the committee that produced the report said they were sure there would be substantial interest by other corporate executives in taking advantage of the proposed tax credit.
"I get the sense among business people, especially those concerned with foreign business, that they believe that cultural institutions attract and keep people here," said Ronald K. Shelp, president of the New York City Partnership, a business lobbying group. "I suspect they'll find it an inducement, especially since they find it such an onerous tax."
The development bank may face a more uphill battle. The committee that produced the report, whose chairman was Arthur Levitt Jr., chairman of Levitt Media Company, called for the bank to receive an initial injection of $250 million in capital, with matching funds to come from other public agencies like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the state's Urban Development Corporation.
However, Stanley Brezenoff, executive director of the Port Authority said, "We just don't have any money," and a spokesman for the development corporation indicated the same, adding that he also thought there were enough development banks in the state already.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about proposed tax credits for donations to cultural institutions misstated the timing of the Dinkins administration's most recent cut in city appropriations for the arts. The 28 percent reduction occurred in this fiscal year, which ends June 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY (56%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY (56%); CITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; CORPORATIONS; MUSEUMS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; GIFTS TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); DANCE COMPANIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (71%); BALLET (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); APPROPRIATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH DAVID N DINKINS (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



580 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Nika Hazelton, Whose Cookbooks Influenced U.S. Tastes, Dies at 84

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL

 BODY:
Nika Hazelton, whose cookbooks have been a mainstay of serious cooks for nearly half a century, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
She died of natural causes after a lingering illness, said her son, Dr. S. A. Standen, who lives in London. 
 Mrs. Hazelton, the daughter of a German diplomat, was born in Rome, attended school there, and studied at the London School of Economics. She began her career as a reporter in 1930, covering the League of Nations for the German Press Association and then moving on to freelance work.
After marrying and emigrating to the United States in 1940, she began writing cookbooks with recipes culled primarily from home cooks throughout Europe and South America.
She published 30 books and they reflected her firm, no-nonsense taste in food. "American Home Cooking" (Bobbs Merrill, 1967), "French Home Cooking" (Viking Penguin, 1979,) "International Cookbook" (Harper & Row, 1967) and "The Italian Cookbook (Henry Holt, 1979) remain standards.
She was also a frequent contributer to the major food magazines and for several decades wrote a column about food, wine and travel for The National Review.
As cooking became trendy and precious in the United States, she seemed to raise a speculative eyebrow. Facing a group of wine writers in New York several years ago, Mrs. Hazelton waved aside questions about white truffles and little-known family vineyards. "I'm here to show you a meal from Tuscany that has the virtue of not being too expensive and not taking much genius or fuss to prepare," she informed her audience and proceeded to demonstrate the proper way to make escarole and rice soup.
Her first marriage ended in divorce in 1954. She married Harold Hazelton in 1956. He died in November.
Mrs. Hazelton is survived by two sons, Dr. Standen and J. O. Standen, a lawyer in San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
A memorial service will be held at 3 P.M. on April 28 at St. Agnes Church on East 43d Street in Manhattan.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 18, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about the cookbook author Nika Hazelton misstated the day of her death and the date of a memorial service. She died on Wednesday, and the service will be on April 27, at 3 P.M., at the Church of St. Agnes, 141 East 43d Street, in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nika Hazelton. (The New York Times, 1984)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME IMPROVEMENT (56%); AMERICAN HOME PATIENT (56%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); WRITERS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); WINE (71%); 

PERSON: HAZELTON, NIKA; O'NEILL, MOLLY HAROLD HAZELTON (93%); NIKA HAZELTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



581 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Transit Officials to Cut Subway Rush-Hour Service on 9 Lines

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
For the first time in more than a decade, transit officials are planning to reduce rush-hour service on a broad swath of New York City's subway lines because of sharply declining ridership.
A total of 43 trains on 9 lines will be eliminated during the Manhattan-bound morning and outbound evening rush hours, transit officials said yesterday. Thirteen additional trains will be dropped from other routes or at other times. 
 The officials said the reductions were minor, and would generally add only one or two minutes to passengers' waits for trains during the rush hours. They also said the changes, scheduled to go into effect in July, would save $2.9 million a year, primarily in salaries.
 
A, B, C, D, F, J, N, Q and R
 But critics, including some members of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's board, contended that the changes would significantly increase crowding in subway cars and would drive away more riders. They said that cutting service would ultimately be counterproductive, worsening the subway system's financial problems rather than helping to solve them.
The plan calls for eliminating some rush hour trains on the A, B, C, D, F, J, N, Q and R lines. Service on the A and D lines between the Bronx and midtown Manhattan would be reduced the most, proportionately. The F line between Manhattan and Queens, the most crowded in the city, would not be altered.
The plan was presented yesterday to the committee of the M.T.A. board that oversees the Transit Authority, the subsidiary that runs the city's subway and buses. Although the plan does not require the approval of the M.T.A. board, some board members indicated yesterday that they would seek to have it reconsidered.
 
Sharp Decline in Subway Use
 "I think this is a devastating cut," said Lucius J. Riccio, the city's Transportation Commissioner, who is also an M.T.A. board member. "It brings into question what we're in business for."
Mr. Riccio and other members appointed by Mayor David N. Dinkins said they would try to persuade the full board next week to postpone the reductions.
Officials of the Transit Authority argued, however, that the schedule changes were limited, and that they represented a reasonable response to a sharp decline in subway use. They said that they had decided to eliminate some trains and expand the time between trains because the average number of weekday subway riders had fallen 7.7 percent since 1989.
The number of trains to be cut amounts to less than 1 percent of the 7,000 trains that run through the vast system each weekday, transit officials said. The reductions will diminish the number of trains that operate during rush hours on the affected lines by only 7 percent, they said.
"We have to be able to manage our services to the demands placed upon them," Alan F. Kiepper, the Transit Authority's president, said during a brief discussion of the plan.
Mr. Kiepper noted during a lengthy interview last week that the Transit Authority had been buffeted during the recession by declining fare revenues and declining city and state subsidies. To compensate, the agency has reduced its work force from 48,000 to slightly under 44,000 in the last three years, without layoffs. Last year, the authority's operating expenses declined by 3.6 percent, and its budget this year calls for another drop of 1.1 percent, he said.
But continued financial pressures have forced transit officials to begin trimming service during the rush hour on the lines that are losing the most riders, Mr. Kiepper said. Service was trimmed on many lines during the last three years, but most of those changes involved trains operating during the midday, evenings or weekends.
"We're not malicious service cutters," Mr. Kiepper said in the interview. "We're trying to do a prudent, reasonable job of managing the public's resources."
Mr. Kiepper also contended that the latest service changes were so minor that most riders would barely tell the difference. "Probably if someone didn't tell you, you wouldn't notice," he said.
On the A line, for example, ridership has declined 8 1/2 percent in the last two years, Mr. Kiepper said. A total of seven trains will be eliminated between Manhattan and the Bronx during the morning and evening rush hours. Instead of trains running every 6 to 8 minutes, they will run every 7 to 10 minutes, transit officials said.
 
Smaller Shoulders
 On the D line between Manhattan and Brooklyn, two trains will be cut during the last part of the morning rush hour -- called the shoulder period by transit officials -- and three trains during the end of the evening rush hour. Waiting times will expand to 8 to 10 minutes in the morning and 7 to 9 minutes in the evening, from 6 to 8 minutes now.
Critics, including many elected officials and rider advocates, said that eliminating trains would make the rest significantly more crowded. "It's simply no way to treat your customers," said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign.
Mr. Russianoff and other opponents of the service reductions said the Transit Authority's own estimates showed that crowding would increase. The authority -- which frequently surveys ridership and which has guidelines for both crowding and waiting times -- projects that on A trains from the Bronx, cars will have an average increase of 25 percent during the morning rush hour under the plan, to 127 people from 102.
Transit officials said that such crowding was well within guidelines -- at least 3 square feet per standing passenger -- created by the M.T.A. board five years ago. But critics argued that riders would suffer, and that some would stop using the subway. Mr. Russianoff contended that the agency should save the $2.9 million by canceling a planned expansion of its station manager program.
 
'In the Service Business'
 "The whole point of a transit authority is to provide service," he said. "They are in the service business, and service comes first."
Transit officials said yesterday that the recession was also affecting their effort to rebuild the subway system. Jerome Foreman, a senior vice president at the Transit Authority in charge of engineering and construction, indicated that the agreement last month by the State Legislature and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to guarantee only one year of construction financing had thrown the program into some disarray.
Over the last decade, the M.T.A.'s rebuilding programs were financed in five-year segments to allow for broad planning and to account for the lengthy time required by many reconstruction projects. Transit officials had sought approval earlier this year for a third five-year plan, which would cost more than $10 billion.
But because of the state's fiscal problems, the Governor and legislators decided they could only approve one year of financing. They estimated that the one-year package was worth $1.6 billion, of which about $1.3 billion would go to the Transit Authority.
But Mr. Foreman told the M.T.A. committee that the agency might have as much as $1.3 billion or as little as $840 million to spend on rebuilding this year. He said that the state cuts had put into doubt the Transit Authority's ability to qualify for some Federal money that requires matching commitments by the city and state.
In addition, Mayor David N. Dinkins released a letter to Mr. Cuomo yesterday, in which the Mayor threatened to veto the entire M.T.A. capital plan when it came before a review panel of the M.T.A. Mr. Dinkins said he found the one-year plan "significantly flawed."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 1992, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about cuts in New York City subway service misidentified the northern terminus of the A line. The last stop is 207th Street in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A reduction of rush-hour service is planned for nine New York City subway lines. Rush-hour passengers boarded an A train at 42d Street yesterday evening. (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "SUBWAYS: Fewer Rush-Hours Trains"
 
Combined total of morning and evening rush-hour trips going in the busiest direction each weekday.
 
A: 207th-Midtown
Proposed*: 45
Current: 52
 
A: Brooklyn-Manhattan
Proposed*: 73
Current: 75
 
B: Brooklyn-Man.
Proposed*: 39
Current: 40
 
C: Central Pk. W.
Proposed*: 35
Current: 36
 
C: Brooklyn-Man.
Proposed*: 37
Current: 40
 
D: Bronx-Midtown
Proposed*: 45
Current: 50
 
D/Q: Brooklyn-Manhattan
Proposed*: 94
Current: 102
 
F: Brooklyn-Manhattan
Proposed*: 65
Current: 66
 
J/Z: Brooklyn-Manhattan
Proposed*: 49
Current: 52
 
N: Astoria-Manhattan
Proposed*: 44
Current: 51
 
R: Queens-Manhattan
Proposed*: 43
Current: 48
 
*To take effect in July
 
(Source: Transit Authority) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); TRANSIT AUTHORITY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) TRANSIT AUTHORITY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1992



582 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 2-5
 
AFGHAN REBELS MASSING
Muslim rebels took up positions on the edge of the Afghan capital and demanded the surrender of the army and the newly declared Government. Najibullah, who was ousted as President on Thursday, stayed out of sight. The United Nations was said to be trying to negotiate safe passage out of the country for him. 1 

JERUSALEM'S HOLIDAY BUSTLE
A year after Iraqi Scud missiles rained on Israel in the Persian Gulf war, frightening visitors away, the narrow lanes and stone alleys of Jerusalem's Old City are flooded with tourists and pilgrims. 1
 
SERBS THREATEN BOSNIAN CAPITAL
Defying international demands to halt their attacks, Serbian fighters overran a town just 30 miles from Sarajevo, the capital of newly independent Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbian leaders proposed partitioning Sarajevo itself. 4
 
ISRAEL SEES ARAB APPEASEMENT
Prime Minister Shamir said the United States refused Israel's request for loan guarantees because the Bush Administration had already promised Arab countries it would withhold the guarantees unless Israel stopped building settlements in the occupied territories. 5
 
FUMING IN EASTERN GERMANY
Like many people in eastern Germany, residents of Neubrandenburg are angry at their western cousins -- this time over the sudden disgrace of an eastern athlete. Much of their unhappiness is rooted in economic dislocation, and a sense that western Germans look down on them. 3
 
A terrorist group jolts Germans by calling an end to attacks. 3
 
OVERTURE FROM LIBYANS
A lawyer for two Libyans wanted in the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet said they would be prepared to go to trial in the West, if given guarantees that the trial would be fair. Western officials reacted skeptically. 5
 
NO REST FOR NUCLEAR SENTINELS
Some wonder whether the "early warning system" justified by the cold war is actually worth the billions of dollars still being spent to shore it up. But to technicians at a surveillance station in the frozen Northwest Territories, it still seems like "a prudent investment." 2
 
GRIM ANNIVERSARY FOR CAMBODIA
Cambodia marked the 17th anniversary of the entry of the Khmer Rouge troops into the capital and the beginning of a reign of horror that uprooted the nation and left more than a million dead. It is still a national holiday. 4
 
National 6-8
 
OPTIMISM FROM GREENSPAN
The Fed chairman said the economy grew at an annual rate of 2 percent in the first quarter, its best performance in three years. He thus joined a growing contingent of private analysts who have begun scrambling to raise estimates of the gross domestic product. 1
 
OF SAFETY NETS AND DRAGNETS
A study found that on any given day last year, two of every five young black men in Washington were in prison, on probation or parole, free on bond or being sought by the police. The finding quickly set off a debate over one question: Why? 1
 
Washington's former Mayor lost his appeal of a cocaine sentence. 6
 
GINGRICH'S BATTLE OF ATLANTA
As lawmakers try to cope with voter outrage stemming from the House bank affair, a compelling episode is playing out in Newt Gingrich's Congressional district. There the House Republican whip, under attack by a primary-election opponent as a symbol of a bloated Washington, is trying to avoid being engulfed in the bonfire that he ignited. 1
 
The House freshmen of '74 and an institution's perils. 8
 
Drug charges were filed against a House postal supervisor. 8
 
CLINTON AND THE ECONOMY
As President, Bill Clinton would pull the American economy in the direction of the managed capitalism found in Japan and Western Europe, where governments play a larger role in shaping industries and markets. Is that good? It depends on whom you listen to. 7
 
The Clintons made public their newly filed Federal tax return. 7
 
Like many incumbents, Senator Specter is in a tough race. 7
 
SHAKY START FOR A NEW MAYOR
After 100 days with Frank Jordan as Mayor, San Franciscans are still debating whether his amiable but inexperienced style is refreshing or inept, and whether he is his own man or the pawn of his handlers. 6
 
NEW REPORT ON VALDEZ SPILL
Fish, marine mammals and other resources were harmed much more extensively by the Exxon Valdez oil spill than many marine biologists have believed, and the damage is continuing, a team of state and Federal officials concluded. 6
 
CALIFORNIA EXECUTION NEARS
Rebuffed by Governor Wilson's decision to deny clemency, lawyers for the man who would be the first person executed by California in 25 years sought a stay from the courts, saying they had new evidence. The condemned prisoner, Robert Alton Harris, is to die in San Quentin's gas chamber on Tuesday. 6
 
Religion Notes: Tax resisters and the collection plate. 8
 
Metropolitan Digest, 21
 
GRIM RURAL JOB OUTLOOK
The landscape is beautiful in Hamilton County, N.Y., but the job picture is bleak. This winter the unemployment rate hit 19.1 percent, the highest of any county in the Northeast, and officials expect that it will rise above 20 percent for April. 1
 
FACE-OFF IN ALBANY
Two underpinnings of incumbency in the New York State Legislature, the way districts are drawn and the way the election law is written, are the focus of a showdown between the Governor and the Legislature. 1
 
Business Digest 33
 
Sports 27-32
 
Baseball: Mets romp over Expos. 27
 
Indians rough up Sanderson, Yankees. 27
 
Basketball: Knicks try to shake late-season blahs. 27
 
Column: Rhoden on the Nets 27
 
Hockey: Who's game to capture the cup this season? 30
 
Obituaries 26
 
Peter Jay Sharp, a hotel developer.
 
Consumer's World 40
 
Ever so warily, people are buying again.
 
Buying a used car? There's help out there.
 
Staying upright: Choosing a cane that fits right and feels right.
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-15
 
A leading candidate for National Gallery directorship withdraws. 11
 
Film: "Brain Donors." 11
 
Music: Nigel Kennedy, violinist. 11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials 18
 
The last cat's-paw war.
 
Fingerprint myth turns real.
 
Refining democracy in Korea.
 
Spring Creek: Use it well.
 
Letters 18
 
Russell Baker: Two planets apart. 19
 
Susan Jane Gilman: New patrons of the arts. 19
 
Andrew Reding: Free trade, shackled labor. 19
 
Davidson Goldin: Some college costs should be tax-deductible. 19

GRAPHIC: Photo: With Najibullah out, Afghan factions wait for a showdown. 1 (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: MECKLENBURG-WESTERN POMERANIA, GERMANY (57%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); GULF STATES (79%); MECKLENBURG-WESTERN POMERANIA, GERMANY (57%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); GENOCIDE (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WEATHER (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PROBATION (69%); PAROLE (69%); BAIL (64%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (56%); WILLIAM JEFFERSON 'BILL' CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



583 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: 42% of Young Black Males Go Through Capital's Courts

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
After a decade in which both the drug trade and police sweeps expanded with similar zeal, 42 percent of the black men in the District of Columbia, aged 18 through 35, were enmeshed in the criminal justice system on any given day last year, according to a study made public today.
"In effect, the social safety net has been replaced by a dragnet," said Jerome G. Miller, president of the National Center on Institutions and Alternatives, which conducted the study. The nonprofit group promotes alternatives to imprisonment.
 
21 Percent in Prison
 The study found that 15 percent of Washington's black men in this age group were in prison, 21 percent were on probation or parole and 6 percent were out on bond or being sought by the police on any one day in 1991. Mr. Miller said a vast majority of these people had committed felonies. 
 As many as 70 percent of black men in Washington are arrested by the time they turn 35, the study estimated, and about 85 percent are arrested at some point in their lives. A large percentage of those arrests are for misdemeanor charges, Mr. Miller said.
The numbers -- higher than those reported in similar studies -- quickly set off a debate that goes to the heart of America's vexing inner city problems: Is society turning many of its young black men into criminals, or are these men doing it themselves? Or are, as John Wilson, the chairman of the City Council, contended today in discussing the study, "both things occurring"?
 
Making Matters Worse
 Mr. Miller said the study found that an emphasis in the 1980's on more arrests and mandatory sentences had not only failed to curb crime but might also have made matters worse by exposing young men to the brutal effects of arrest and imprisonment.
"We're criminalizing people we should be treating in other ways," he argued. "The majority of people we march through the system are people who have other problems -- the retarded, the mentally ill, the alcoholic, the homeless, the minor offenders."
Others concurred in calling the numbers depressingly high but said they saw few immediate options for reducing the role of criminal justice.
"What laws does he propose to repeal?" asked Mark A. R. Kleiman, a professor of public policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard who has written widely on drug laws. "If you said to people in the neighborhoods, 'Should we stop arresting the crack dealers?' I think they'd say no."
While there have been similar national studies of black men and criminal justice, today's study is the first to focus on a single major city.
In 1989, the Sentencing Project, a Washington research and advocacy group, found that almost one in four of the nation's black men age 20 to 29 were in prison, on probation or on parole. A year later, two private groups found a similar pattern holding true for black men in New York state. There, 23 percent of black men in the same age group were incarcerated or on probation or parole.
 
More Expansive Definition
 In arriving at the higher number of 42 percent, Mr. Miller's study not only focused on one city but used a more expansive definition: It included black men who were free on bond awaiting trial and those who were sought for arrest.
The study did not include corresponding figures for whites, Mr. Miller said, because that number "would have been negligible, less than 10 percent." As evidence, he cited the racial composition of the main prison in the District's Lorton correctional center, where 98 percent of the inmates in the main prison were black men and 1 percent were white men.
The 1990 study of New York found that 3 percent of young white men were in prison or on probation or parole. That study was conducted by the Correctional Association of New York and the New York State Coalition for Criminal Justice.
While there have been no studies of young black men in other cities, Mr. Miller suggested that the proportion in the criminal justice system would be the same as in Washington.
Mr. Kleiman, the Harvard professor, said he thought the numbers would hold true in other cities with many poor people, like Cleveland or Detroit, but not those like Miami, where the city limits include large suburban, middle-class areas. "A lot of this depends on where you draw the boundaries, where the black middle class lives," he said.
 
Disbelief Over Numbers
 In an interview on Thursday night with WRC-TV, Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly said, "I know that we've got a staggering problem," but added, "There are too many successful well-adjusted young people, young black men in this city for me to believe that 42 percent is a reliable number."
That sentiment was markedly different from the one expressed by Mr. Wilson, the council chairman. "I'm not skeptical of the numbers at all," he said. "It doesn't seem that whatever the programs we come up with there's any improvement in the situation at all."
Census figures for 1990 show that 65.8 of the District's 606,990 residents are black. Another 29.3 percent are white, and 5.4 percent are of Hispanic origin, a category that includes both blacks and whites.
The report found that on an average day 21,800 of the District's 53,377 young black men were involved with the criminal justice system. Of those 7,800 were in jail or prison, 6,000 were on local probation, 3,700 were on local parole and 1,300 were on Federal probation or parole. The report estimated that 3,000 others were awaiting trial on bond or being pursued on felony or misdemeanor warrants.
Mr. Miller arrived at these figures by taking the actual number of people in prison, or on probation or parole, and estimating the percentage who were black men between 18 and 35.
He said he based his estimates on a two-year-old study for the District's correction department that broke down the prison population by age, race and gender. "Those figures don't change much in two years," he said.
The report did not calculate how many of the men had been arrested for drug charges, but in an interview Mr. Miller said he would put the figure at 40 to 45 percent. That does not include those arrested for drug-related acts, like robbery to finance drug purchases.
Mr. Miller's numbers were of such magnitude that they astonished prominent blacks immersed in the very problems they describe.
C. Glenn Loury, an economist at Boston University, said, "What it suggests to me is an advanced breakdown of social order that even I had been unaware of."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Caught or Pursued In Washington" shows black men between 18 and 35 years old who are under criminal justice supervision. (Source: National Center on Institutions and Alternatives)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER ON INSTITUTIONS AND ALTERNATIVES NATIONAL CENTER ON INSTITUTIONS & ALTERNATIVES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER ON INSTITUTIONS AND ALTERNATIVES NATIONAL CENTER ON INSTITUTIONS & ALTERNATIVES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC) UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; PROBATION AND PAROLE; BLACKS (IN US) CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); PAROLE (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (89%); SENTENCING (89%); MEN (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); PROBATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); COCAINE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FELONIES (72%); BAIL (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JEROME G; DEPARLE, JASON JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



584 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Intense Fighting in Sarajevo Threatens U.S. Aid Flights

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, April 17

 BODY:
Serbian militias stepped up their attacks near the capital today, overrunning a town only 30 miles away and pounding Muslim Slav neighborhoods with mortar fire. The fighting raised new security concerns for a United States airlift of humanitarian aid scheduled to begin on Saturday.
One Serbian militia leader suggested partitioning Sarajevo, the capital of the newly independent republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was granted formal recognition by the United States and the European Community last week. The Serbian militias are fighting to carve out their own part of this republic that is made up of Serbs, Croats and Muslim Slavs. 
 Cyrus R. Vance, the United Nations special envoy, said today that he was not encouraged by his talks this week with officials of the three factions and the Yugoslav Army.
"I can't say I'm an optimist in this situation," Mr. Vance said as he arrived in Zagreb for talks with Croatia's President, Franjo Tudjman. "Continued fighting is going to benefit nobody. It will be a disaster and there will be no winners."
Mr. Vance, who helped mediate the cease-fire that halted similar ethnic fighting between Croats and Serbs in Croatia, called again for a halt to the fighting in Bosnia and Herzegovina and support for European Community-sponsored negotiations.
 
U.S. Expresses Concern
 With fighting continuing, United States officials said there were growing security concerns for the airlift set to begin on Saturday with the arrival here of two military transport planes carrying food and blankets. Three more cargo planes are to arrive on Sunday.
"The Yugoslav Army has given their approval," a diplomat based in Belgrade said, adding that the United States Defense Department was "getting cold feet over the food delivery because of security."
"The Serbs were demanding that the flights first go to Belgrade for customs clearance," the diplomat said, adding that the United States refused that condition.
[In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman said that the flights were still scheduled for Saturday but that United States officials were seeking safety guarantees from Serbian forces.]
Serbian militias, which have been armed by the Serb-led Yugoslav Army, have antiaircraft guns mounted on trucks, but it is unclear whether any are at Sarajevo's airport. Neither the Yugoslav Army, which controls the airport, nor the Serb Government in Belgrade, claim or seem to have full control over the Serb militias.
 
Serbs Hijack U.N. Trucks
 Diplomats and United Nations officials said that Serbian irregulars had hijacked six 22-ton trucks loaded with United Nations food aid during the night. One group is said to have threatened to kill a United Nations official who complained. Under the United States aid plan, the American humanitarian supplies are to be handed over to United Nations relief workers for distribution. The aid is intended to help overcome a food shortage and to underscore Washington's backing for the republic's independence.
The new attacks today by Serbian militias flared across an arc-shaped corridor populated mostly by Muslim Slavs and Croats but considered strategic to the Serbs because it links predominantly Serb enclaves in the republic.
Foca, a town of about 20,000 people on the Drina River about 30 miles southeast of Sarajevo, fell today after a week of attacks. It was the sixth town to fall to the Serbs in just over two weeks.
Virtually all of Foca's population had fled over the last week to Montenegro and the town of Gorazde, which is the last important town in eastern Bosnia not in the hands of the Serbian militias. Diplomats and Government officials here expect the Serbs to attack Gorazde next.
In the town of Bosanski Samac, Serbian guerrillas initiated a daylong firefight by overrunning a police station and closing Bosnia's last passable bridge over the Sava River into Croatia, local news reports said.
Serious clashes also erupted near the towns of Derventa, Mostar and Capljina. Sarajevo television reported tonight that several dozen civilians were indiscriminately killed today during fighting near Bosanski Brod. Western diplomats said they had received independent reports of the incident.
 
Battles in the Capital
 Overnight gun battles broke out near Sarajevo's electric utility company, and Serb mortar fire pounded Sarajevo's Muslim quarter. The streets of the capital have become a maze of barricades, checkpoints and tank traps.
Serbian nationalist leaders called for the partitioning of Sarajevo as the starting point for the division of the entire republic.
"Work on the map should begin in Sarajevo," said Nikola Koljevic, one of the Serbian leaders. "Sarajevo should be partitioned, and then we would go further. We think that this would be the best step toward peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina."
Mr. Vance's visit and warnings by the United States and European Community on Wednesday to isolate Serbia politically and economically have failed to persuade Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic, local Serbian leaders or the quarreling commanders of the Yugoslav Army to try to rein in the Serbian militias.
Tonight, Serbia's Government in Belgrade accused Washington and the European Governments as well as news organizations in the United States, Germany and Austria of unleashing an "unscrupulous and unrestrained" campaign to malign Belgrade.
Bosnia and Herzegovina has a population of 1.9 million Muslim Slavs, 1.4 million Eastern Orthodox Serbs and 750,000 Roman Catholic Croats. Most Serbs here oppose being separated from Serbia, and for months their leaders warned of civil war and partition of the republic if it gained independence. The Muslim Slavs and Croats, however, oppose remaining part of a Serbian-dominated Yugoslavia, and declared the republic's independence.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As fighting intensified in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbian guerrillas seized the town of Foca, just 30 miles from Sarajevo, the capital. An elderly woman carried a rifle for protection yesterday as she walked with her grandson in the eastern Bosnian mountains, near Sarajevo. (Reuters)
 
Map of Yugoslavia showing location of Foca.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA; SARAJEVO (YUGOSLAVIA) UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); CROATIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLIFTS ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WAR & CONFLICT (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); RELIGION (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (54%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: SUDETIC, CHUCK; VANCE, CYRUS R CYRUS R VANCE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



585 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Economic Policy;
Clinton Proposals Seek Political Middle Ground

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton told his audience at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania on Thursday that, if elected, he would be "a different kind of President with a very different economic policy" from George Bush's.
By all accounts, he would be. Mr. Clinton wants to pull the American economy in the direction of the managed capitalism found in Japan and Western Europe, where governments play a larger role than Washington in shaping industries and markets. And to achieve that transformation, he is offering a bundle of programs, from tax breaks for start-up businesses to a multibillion-dollar agency for commercial research and skills training for all American workers. 
 Mr. Clinton avoids using the term "industrial policy" because it is often associated with the notion of a large, centralized bureaucracy trying to designate industries as winners and losers. But to compete with nations like Germany and Japan, he said in a recent interview, "we need to put Government on the playing field, not to manage or direct markets but mainly to help create markets." He continued, "I don't consider that heavy-handed industrial policy."
 
Search for a Middle Ground
 To his admirers in business and academia, Mr. Clinton's proposals are a coherent economic strategy to cope with increased global competition, lagging productivity and a widening gap between the wealthy and other Americans. They are the result of a decade-long effort by intellectuals aligned with the Democratic Party to find a middle-ground between traditional tax-and-spend Democrats and laissez-faire Republicans.
"Clinton is offering a third choice based on the view that in today's global economy the old solutions, both on the Democratic and Republican sides, don't work anymore," said Robert Shapiro, a Clinton adviser who is a political economist at the Progressive Policy Institute, a research group linked to the Democratic Party.
To critics, Mr. Clinton's plan is a misguided effort to get the Government involved in making investment decisions best left to the marketplace. And in an election year when voters' distrust of Government is running high, they say the Clinton program will be tough to sell. "I think it's a complete misreading of where the American public wants to go," said Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist of Bear Stearns & Company and a free-market conservative who served in the Reagan Administration. "Economic policy could be Clinton's Achilles' heel."
 
Sluggish Productivity Growth
 Mr. Clinton's agenda represents an evolution of thinking about economic solutions to America's long-run problems. For two decades, through Democratic and Republican Administrations, the American economy has been afflicted with sluggish productivity growth. Since 1973, output per worker has increased by less than 1 percent a year, far below the rate of earlier years and well behind the rate of other leading industrial nations.
Slow productivity growth means eroding living standards. Had productivity maintained its pre-1973 pace, the typical American family's income would be more than $10,000 ahead of its current $35,000 a year.
In Mr. Clinton's view, the goal of Government is to help create as many high-paying skilled jobs within America as possible. Education policy, tax incentives, subsidies and trade policy should be aimed at insuring that companies, whatever their nationality, place those jobs in the United States.
The Clinton vision is strikingly similar to that of Robert B. Reich, a political economist at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, in his influential book on global economics, "The Work of Nations" (Vintage, 1991). That is not surprising; the two men have been friends since 1968, when they met on an ocean liner while heading to Oxford University as Rhodes scholars.
"We started a conversation then that's continued ever since," Mr. Reich recalled. "Bill Clinton has been burdened with every book and paper I've ever written. And to my amazement, he's actually read and absorbed most of it."
 
Academic Connections
 Indeed, Mr. Clinton's ad hoc group of advisers on economic matters is heavy with people he knew at Georgetown and Oxford universities. Another former Rhodes scholar is Ira Magaziner, a business consultant and author. Derek Shearer, a professor of public policy at Occidental College, met Mr. Clinton at Oxford. Roger C. Altman, a Wall Street investment banker, was a classmate at Georgetown. Mr. Shapiro, also a key economic adviser, met the candidate in 1990 when Mr. Clinton served as chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council.
Because Mr. Clinton's goal is to generate skilled jobs in engineering, computerized manufacturing and other high-technology fields, one of his favorite speech lines is, "Education is economic development."
Some of the most costly programs in Clinton's platform are educational. He plans, for example, to expand Head Start to include all 3- and 4-year-olds, a commitment of roughly $4.5 billion a year. The biggest price tag is for his National Service Trust Fund, a plan for guaranteed college tuition loans that would be repaid with either post-graduation earnings or with two years of public service in areas like teaching, law enforcement or child care. By its sixth year, the college loan program would cost a projected $14 billion a year, only 43 percent of which would be recovered by eliminating the $6 billion-a-year Federal student loan program.
 
Military Technology Model
 Mr. Clinton's clearest industrial policy initiative is his recommendation for a multibillion-dollar-a-year civilian version of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, a small agency formed in 1958 in the panic after the Soviet Union's launching of Sputnik. Financed from the military budget, Darpa's mission has been to promote military-related technology. But Darpa has also financed research with broad civilian applications, particularly computer technology. Today, many fundamental computer technologies can be traced to Darpa backing.
"Historically, we have justified that kind of industrial policy only in the defense area," Mr. Clinton said. "But I think we ought to do the same thing on the civilian side, to work in partnership with industry to convert ideas into manufacturing jobs."
Experts differ on what lessons can be drawn from Darpa, and whether a large-scale version for commercial research would be successful. But Mr. Clinton and his advisers are optimistic that 50-50 investments between the Government and the private sector in fields like telecommunications, high-speed trains, aerospace, silicon wafers, new materials and biotechnology could help accelerate the development of new markets.
The Government contribution might be as much as $7 billion a year, compared with $1 billion for Darpa. "The public money would allow companies to engage in longer-term research and development projects than they are now, given the pressures they face to generate profits," Mr. Magaziner said.
 
Breaks with Party's Reputation
 For a Democratic candidate, the handling of the Federal budget deficit is viewed as an important test of economic competence, and Mr. Clinton is adamant in portraying himself as a break with the party's big-spending reputation. Last month, when a group of economists advocated spending $50 billion of Government money quickly to pull the economy out of recession, Mr. Clinton declined to endorse the proposal.
Mr. Clinton proposes to divide the Federal budget into three parts: past, present and future. The past budget would include interest payments on debt and the costs of rescuing the savings and loan industry. The present budget would include current spending on programs like social security and defense. The future budget would be for investment in areas like education, highways and research.
His goal is to curb past and present spending, while doubling the share spent on investment in the future to roughly 18 percent -- based, again, on the premise that spending on things like infrastructure, education and research will improve productivity and thus living standards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: If elected, Gov. Bill Clinton said, he would be "a different kind of President with a very different economic policy" from George Bush. Mr. Clinton greeted shoppers yesterday at the Italian Market in South Philadelphia. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (62%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ECONOMIC PLANNING; ELECTION ISSUES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); STARTUPS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



586 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 3; Style Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Ever So Warily, People Are Buying Again

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Connie Santucci of Valley Stream, L.I., is shopping for spring clothing, and she is not about to compromise on either quality or value. "Just because clothing is on sale, I'm not going to settle," she said.
Attracting customers like Mrs. Santucci is a daunting task these days for retailers and catalogue merchants. 
 As the spring selling season peaks this weekend with the Easter holiday, there are signs that consumers who have been hesitant to buy during the recession are beginning to open their wallets for new apparel. Pent-up demand, retailers say, is finally bringing shoppers into the stores in a buying frame of mind.
With retail sales accounting for about a third of the nation's business activity, any changes in buying patterns can have a major effect on the general economy.
"I don't think it is overwhelming," said Gerald Mathews, executive vice president and director of stores for Saks Fifth Avenue, "but there seems to be more energy out there, whether in the men's suit department or in women's sportswear."
Charles Monte, owner of Grace Charles Fashions, a women's clothing store in Lynbrook, L.I., said: "People are shopping later. We used to have people coming in as soon as new merchandise came in, and they'd shop for the whole season. Now they are shopping, but they are buying one outfit, as opposed to two or three."
Behind this cautious optimism lies a 2.9 percent rise in overall retail sales during the first quarter of 1992, the strongest quarterly gain since an identical one in the last quarter of 1988. There are also expectations of higher apparel sales in April because of warmer weather and the relatively late Easter buying season this year. However, consultants and security analysts warn that the free-spending patterns of the past decade are unlikely to return, regardless of general economic conditions.
"The spring season is going to be just slightly better than last year's," said Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a New York retail consulting firm. "The consumer, as I see it, remains very cautious, and retailers are keeping their inventories under very tight control."
Susan O'Dell, president of Service Dimensions, a North American consulting concern based in Toronto, pointed out: "We still see what we call the reluctant customer -- the customer who is spending because she has to, not because she is getting joy out of it. Excess is no longer a sign of success. Today it is O.K., and in fact even desirable, not to spend."
 
For Customers, a Strategy
 Nevertheless, when consumers do spend, they tend to target their purchases carefully. Gail Brewer, a product manager of L. L. Bean, the big mail-order house in Freeport, Me., said that this spring, "people are looking for colorful items to update their outfits." Among the best-selling colors are deep teal and plum, soft blue and pink, and "outdoor" colors like coral. "The concept is to have color themes that interrelate and coordinate," she said.
Isaac Lagnado, a principal of Tactical Retail Solutions, a retail consulting busines in New York, cited two niches in the apparel category that are getting unusual consumer attention now, women's large-size clothing and shorts. "Designers are finally designing merchandise for the large-size segment, although the business is still underdeveloped at retail," he said. "As for shorts, it's a fashion blip across the country."
Mr. Lagnado pointed out that budget items that lure customers into stores are generally doing the best. "Promotions are still the name of the game and are driving items like career clothing and sportswear," he said."
Promotions are not limited to lower-price merchandise, though. Said Robert F. Buchanan, a senior retail analyst for Alex. Brown & Sons, a Baltimore securities firm, "Even the high end is very price sensitive. I don't think people are going to spend like drunken sailors any time soon."
 
Ambiance Counts, Too
 In addition to price, many returning customers are displaying a new-found choosiness, demanding more in the way of merchandise and atmosphere, experts say. "Retailers today have wisened up," said Kurt Barnard, publisher of Barnard's Retail Marketing Report. "Consumers must see a good shopping ambiance that is pleasing. A dirty store is one that would attract suspicion immediately."
Richard Feinberg, director of the Purdue University Retail Institute, agrees. "People want to be treated better in the stores once they get in there," he said. "And more and more stores realize they've got to treat their customers well."
But other retail specialists say that a broad selection of merchandise will be the key to long-term improvement in the marketplace. At the same time, stocks of apparel have been generally low since the beginning of the year, thus reducing the range of goods available for potential customers.
"I want to look at long skirts and at short skirts," Mrs. Santucci said." "What I want is variety."
 
 
SPRING SALES ARE COMING
 Here are some of the major clothing items that retail executives say will be marked down after Easter in many stores across the country:
Women's all-weather coats
Men's shirts
Dresses and blouses
Handbags and women's shoes
Girls' sportswear and accessories.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Grace Charles Fashions in Lynbrook, L.I., Connie Santucci is assisted by Charles Monte, the owner. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES RETAILERS (91%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); WOMEN (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (60%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD CONNIE SANTUCCI (63%); ISAAC LAGNADO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



587 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: A Rural New York County Mired in Poverty

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SPECULATOR, N.Y., April 16

 BODY:
If wealth could be measured solely by natural surroundings, no one would be poor in Hamilton County, where the last vestiges of snow are giving way to the magnificent greenery of an Adirondack spring and the lakes glisten as they thaw in the sunshine.
But gauged by numbers, the landscape here is grim. This winter the unemployment rate hit 19.1 percent, the highest of any county in the Northeast, and labor officials expect that it will rise above 20 percent for April now that the North Country's mud season has arrived and most timber companies have shut down their logging operations until late May. 
 Even when people can get work, the average yearly wage here is just $11,931, the lowest in the 62 counties in New York. And Hamilton County has another distinction that speaks in part to pastoral charms, but also to economic straits -- it is the only county in the state without a single 24-hour bank machine.
The recession has, of course, struck all parts of the country, and in New York State, more than 90 percent of the 500,000 jobs lost in the last three years have come from New York City and its suburbs. But in pockets of rural New York, where winter joblessness is a perennial problem even when the national economy is in good shape, the recession and a dearth of heavy tourist-attracting snowfalls this year have combined to drive unemployment to levels almost unimaginable in downstate areas and among the worst in the nation, state officials say.
Evidence of the economic distress is certainly obscured by the splendor of the forest that seems to rise all around the county, but it is there. It can be found along places like Page Road, atop a hill at the edge of the village of Speculator.
A mile and a half down the rock-dirt roadway is Lee Page, 28 years old, who jokingly refers to the "family compound," a collection of seven patched-up trailers and a half-completed log cabin that are home to Mr. Page, his wife, their three children, his brother and his brother's family, his parents, three uncles, two aunts and cousins.
Mr. Page, his brother, his father and one of his uncles are all laid off from logging jobs and have uncertain prospects of returning even when the mud dries up. Mr. Page's only income is a $150-a-week unemployment check and the money his wife takes in sporadically as a substitute clerk at the Big M supermarket in Speculator.
 
'I Guess We're Pretty Close'
 "It's gotten pretty rough up here," Mr. Page said inside his family's trailer, where a gas stove helps to heat the home as well as cook the food. "I guess we're pretty close to what you might almost call poverty-stricken."
Jerry Perkins, who lives in his grandparents' former house on Route 8, the main street here, held various jobs last summer and fall mixing concrete, pounding nails and operating the weed-eater at a golf course in Lake Pleasant nearby. But no work since then, said the 37-year-old Mr. Perkins, who is collecting unemployment.
"There's nothing going on here," he said. "It's all shut down."
The economic afflictions in rural New York are by no means confined to Hamilton County. Of the four other counties in the state whose unemployment rates are above 15 percent, two are just to the west of here, Lewis and Jefferson, and two to the east, Essex and Warren.
In the southwestern part of the state, several counties have topped 12 percent unemployment recently. By contrast, the statewide average was 9.3 percent for February, the most recent month for which state Labor Department figures are available, with New York City at 10.9 percent.
Aside from the frustration brought on by months of idle job searches -- "It's enough to start making you go nervous," said Mr. Perkins, whose wife is expecting their first child next month -- the economy has also strained social-service agencies. Requests for county-sponsored free food packages, which typically include pasta, milk and some canned goods, are up between 40 percent and 60 percent over last year, local officials said.
Still, as bad as times are in Hamilton County, several factors combine to give poverty here a different face than in many urban areas.
For one thing, it is so cold that local authorities say they know of no one who is homeless. And even when people are destitute, life seems to be lived on a small enough scale -- the county's total population is 5,279 -- that government seems able to help.
 
Bus Fare for Homesick
 Last fall, a Venezuelan immigrant couple took a bus to Indian Lake from New York City and announced they were both jobless and homeless, recalled the county's Commissioner of Social Services, Arthur D. Haynes Jr.
Mr. Haynes put them up in a local motel and gave them work caring for the grounds at the county building. But after a few days they said they were homesick and wanted to go back to New York City.
"So what could I do?" said Mr. Haynes. "I paid for their bus fare, and they went back."
Winter unemployment also seems to have become so chronic that some people have learned how to plan for it. Dan Moran, who is a state campground supervisor in the summer, worked only two days last fall, supervising the booths for a local election. He stayed unemployed until earlier this month, when he secured a three-week stint acting as the Hamilton County jailer while the county sheriff was away on vacation.
Mr. Moran and his wife grew a huge garden last summer, canned most of the produce and stored most of the fish and deer he caught in the fall.
"We're getting sick of the taste of venison," he said. "But if we hadn't done it this way, we'd have been in really tough shape this winter."
Some residents even seemed to take the latest economic news with a grain of salt, suggesting that winter unemployment held a certain appeal to many who were experiencing it.
 
Offense at Being Called Poor
 "What it means is that there are a lot of people out here looking for work and hoping to hell they don't find any," said George Perkins, 68, Larry Perkins's father and a retired construction worker.
Finally, as much as people here say they are angry about the lack of jobs, many seem to take considerable offense at the notion that they are actually suffering.
In one example, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo flew to the North Country in 1984 to apologize to angry residents for referring in his keynote speech at the Democratic national convention to "the abject poor of Essex County."
With no heavy industry of note other than logging, the economy in Hamilton County is almost entirely dependent on tourists, and most of them come in the summer and fall.
In any event, the dominant mood here seems to be one of resignation, tinged with hope for better times -- and an end to the mud season.
"Mostly you just have to set around and wait for it to dry up," said Lee Page, the logger. "And there's sort of two ways to go. Some people go crazy, and some go fishing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "It's gotten pretty rough up here," said Lee Page, who was laid off from his logging job in upstate New York. With him outside their trailer home in Speculator, N.Y., were his children, Lee Jr., Jennifer and Lynn, right. (Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. 1); "There's nothing going on here; it's all shut down," said Jerry Perkins, speaking of the economic affliction of Speculator, N.Y., where the unemployment rate, 19.1 percent, is the highest of any county in the Northeast. (Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 
Map of New York State showing location of Speculator

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; HAMILTON COUNTY (NY); SPECULATOR (NY) UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOMELESS PERSONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); TRENDS (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (54%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



588 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

INCUMBENTS' PROTECTIONS UNDER FIRE
New York's state legislators have the highest re-election rate of any state legislators in the country. But now two of the underpinnings of incumbents' success, the ways districts are drawn and the election law is written, are the focus of a battle between the Governor and the Legislature whose outcome will shape state politics for years to come. Political memo, Page 1.
 
MUD AND POVERTY IN HAMILTON COUNTY 
 If wealth could be measured by natural surroundings, no one would be poor in Hamilton County. But gauged another way, the landscape is grim. This winter the unemployment rate hit 19.1 percent. In pockets of rural New York, the recession and a dearth of tourist-attracting snowfalls combined to drive unemployment to levels almost unimaginable downstate. Page 1.
 
 NEW YORK CITY
 
PASSOVER FIRE HURTS 3
A candle used by a Brooklyn family in a Passover ritual set fire to their two-story Midwood home, destroying it and critically injuring a woman and two of her children. Page 23.
 
NEW AIDS POLICY CHIEF'S PAINFUL CHOICE
Before agreeing to become New York City's first "coordinator of AIDS policy," Ronald S. Johnson had to decide whether he wanted to tell the world that he was H.I.V.-positive. Page 23.
 
 Man grabs transit police officer's gun on subway platform and kills himself. Page 22.
 
Robbery victim is fatally shot. Page 22.
 
 REGION
 
JURORS TO LEARN OF GLOVE
A White Plains judge denied a defense motion to block the use of Carolyn Warmus's credit-card records as evidence, which means the jury will get to hear about the mystery glove that the prosecution says links her to the murder of her lover's wife. Page 24.
 
THE GOVERNOR'S SILVER TONGUE
Governor Cuomo reported income of $304,405 on his 1991 tax returns, including $124,200 in compensation for eight speeches he gave last year. The Governor, who is considered one of the country's most gifted Democratic orators, was paid an average of $15,525 per speech. Page 25.
 
PHANTOM VEHICLES PUZZLE INDUSTRY
Auto industry officials have expressed amazement that John McNamara, the Long Island dealer charged with fraud, could have persuaded a subsidiary of General Motors to finance tens of thousands of nonexistent vehicles, as prosecutors have charged. Page 25.
 
TRAIN STATION IS TRENTON'S LATEST PAIN
Trenton's leaders have long complained about development seeping away from the city and into its suburbs. Now the state commuter railroad wants to build a station in the suburb of Hamilton, which Trentonians fear will compete for riders with Trenton's station. Page 25.
 
RISE OF THE THREE-CAR GARAGE
The suburban dream of a home, a yard and a car in the garage may need updating: make that three cars. Latest data from the 1990 census show that in the suburbs, where the car has long been king, most families have at least two, and a growing number have three or more. Page 25.
 
New charges against East Orange suspect. Page 24.
 
About New York 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (86%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (86%); FIRES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARSON (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (76%); AIDS & HIV (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); JUDGES (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); MURDER (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%); PASSOVER (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); CENSUS (61%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



589 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Trenton Sees Proposed Train Station Stealing Its Business

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAMILTON, N.J., April 17

 BODY:
Trenton's leaders have long complained about the way development has seeped away from the city and into its suburbs, leaving behind joblessness and decay.
The malls that grew up along U.S. 1 in the 1970's helped end the city's role as a retail center. In the 1980's, a rapidly expanding government seemed to put as many new state office buildings outside the capital as in it. Now, as a crowning blow, city officials say, the state-run commuter railroad wants to build a new passenger station in this suburb, where Trentonians fear it will compete for riders with Trenton's station less than four miles down the line. 
 N.J. Transit, the state agency that operates the rail and bus system, said that when the new station in Hamilton opened in the mid-90's it would take the overflow from Trenton and help solve a parking shortage there.
 
Draining Off Business
 The agency calls the planned $30 million Hamilton complex, which will include a bus-repair yard, a "park and ride," and notes that Amtrak, the national rail carrier that makes 19 stops daily at Trenton, will not stop at the new station, which will primarily serve people commuting to and from New York City.
But Trenton officials view the prospect of a new commuter station so near their own as another example of the suburbs draining off business and investment that should be theirs.
Besides flexing their muscle in the State Legislature, Trenton officials plan to make the station an early test of the new state land-use plan, which is expected to be adopted this summer and which calls for state agencies to focus their investment in urban core areas.
"We have the infrastructure in the city already," said State Senator Dick LaRossa, a Trenton Republican and an influential opponent of the Hamilton project. "The only way we are going to revive the economy of this city is to redevelop the available land we have, instead of continuing to use up open land in the suburbs. Let's redevelop the urban areas first, because the better urban areas do the better the suburbs do."
 
Way to Avoid Trenton?
 Betty Holland, a Trenton City Council member, predicted that commuters would avoid Trenton if they had an alternative only a few miles away, with easy access off Interstate 295.
"People will avoid coming to Trenton because they have this misperception that it is not safe, and ridership at Trenton station will fall off," she said.
A restaurateur, Fred Merlino, worries along with his brother Anthony that the Hamilton station might drain away some of the customers from their steakhouse, Pete Lorenzo's Cafe, across from the Trenton train station.
"Businesswise I'm definitely concerned," he said. "You have an existing station here, why go out and spend all that money to build one in the suburbs, where it will only hurt the one we have?"
Jeff Lamm, a spokesman for N.J. Transit, said that the agency expected a strong increase in ridership from the Trenton area in the next year, particularly from the Philadelphia suburbs that already send many New York-bound commuters across the Delaware and into the Trenton station daily. Parking is already crowded at Trenton, he said, and there is a waiting list of 1,500 for monthly parking spaces at Princeton Junction, the next stop on the line to New York.
The Hamilton station would have 1,600 parking spaces, Mr. Lamm said, adding that the agency was spending money in Trenton as well. The station's leaky platform roofs are being repaired, and there are plans to add another 900 parking spaces.
Mrs. Holland, the city council member, has objected in particular to the absence of a plan concerning the Hamilton station, and to the lack of an invitation for public comment.
 
Regional Issues at Stake
 "I thought we had come of age in this state, and were ready to start dealing with things on a regional basis," Mrs. Holland said. "Certainly a transportation facility should be considered a regional matter and should be subject to some sort of regional review and hearing. But a train station in Hamilton is certainly not part of the Mercer County land-use plan, and if we're doing long-range planning in this state, I would assume that New Jersey Transit would at least have raised the question."
But N.J. Transit seemed unaware that there might be a state or regional planning issue involved in the proposed station and Mr. Lamm, the spokesman, declined to address the issue.
The issue moves next to the Legislature, where on April 27 N.J. Transit is scheduled to have its budget reviewed by the Senate appropriations committee. Senator LaRossa, a member of the committee, said he would use the occasion to raise the Hamilton station issue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trenton officials view the prospect of a new commuter station planned by the state-run commuter railroad so near their own as another example of the suburbs draining off business and investment from their city. Commuters arrived yesterday at the Trenton station. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey, indicating site of proposed Hamilton Transit Complex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%); TRENTON CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP TRENTON CITY COUNCIL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAMILTON (NJ); TRENTON (NJ) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; COMMUTING; SUBURBS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); SHIPBUILDING (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (75%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER JEFF LAMM (57%); BETTY HOLLAND (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



590 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Greenspan said the economy grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the first quarter. That is the most specific, and optimistic, projection he has made and would make the quarter the best since the 1989 period, when President Bush was inaugurated. [Page 1.]
Construction of new homes and apartments rose 6.4 percent last month to their highest level in two years, the Government said, in the latest sign of an economic rebound. Private economists cautioned that the 6.4 percent increase probably overstated the strength because the gain came solely from a surge in apartment building that they said was unsustainable. [34.] 
 By linking products to abortion rights, AIDS prevention, gun control and other issues, a new generation of executives is beginning to change the way many goods and services are sold. [33.]
Michael Hammer has a message of radical change, which he calls "re-engineering the corporation." One of the nation's hottest industry consultants, he tells managers to rethink the way they do everything, from buying notebooks to responding to customers' complaints -- or else. [33.]
Bill Clinton wants to pull the economy in the direction of the managed capitalism found in Japan and Western Europe, where governments play a larger role than Washington in shaping industries and markets. [7.]
 
COMPANIES
Digital Equipment is radically overhauling its corporate engineering structure in a move that may lead to huge layoffs. The reorganization dissolves the hardware engineering group and moves engineering into the marketing division. [33.]
Time Warner said it planned to arrange a private placement of $1 billion in long-term debt with institutional investors. [33.]
Pat Robertson has been achieving a quiet success as a TV executive. The parent of his Family Channel plans to sell shares to the public next week, leaving the evangelist and onetime Presidential candidate with stock worth as much as $14.4 million. [33.]
Fleet/Norstar and Massachusetts's Attorney General have agreed on assistance to homeowners deceived into taking second mortgages, home-equity loans or home-repair contracts. [35.]
Star Banc rejected a $1.2 billion takeover offer from Fifth Third Bancorp as hostile. [35.]
GlenFed reported a $106.7 million loss and fell out of compliance with Federal capital requirements. [35.]
The Exxon Valdez spill did much more harm to fish, marine mammals and other resources than had been thought, a new report concludes. [6.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Czechoslovakia has lifted most price controls, abolished subsidies, balanced budgets and freed businesses to exchange the local currency. Yet unemployment and inflation remain at acceptable levels. Now comes the tough part -- the testing of Czechoslovaks' will to endure far greater hardship. [33.]
 
MARKETS
All stock and commodities markets were closed in the U.S. and most foreign countries for Good Friday. There was no U.S. trading in corporate, municipal or Government securities.
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
A technique has been patented to extend the shelf life of human skin grown in a laboratory. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [34.]
The I.R.S. is considering new guidelines for assessing taxes against nonprofit organizations that earn money from corporate sponsors. John H. Cushman Jr.: Your Taxes. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONSTRUCTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW ISSUES (88%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (74%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); COMMODITIES TRADING (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (64%); SECOND MORTGAGES (62%); RELIGION (62%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (61%); MARINE MAMMALS (60%); WILDLIFE (60%); AIDS & HIV (56%); ABORTION (55%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



591 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
GlenFed at Risk of Seizure After Loss of $106 Million

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: GLENDALE, Calif., April 17

 BODY:
GlenFed Inc. reported a $106.7 million loss today and fell out of compliance with Federal capital requirements. It had previously predicted the developments.
GlenFed, the parent of Glendale Federal Bank, is now technically at risk of seizure for having too little cushion against losses on risky ventures like real estate investments. 
 No such drastic action is expected soon. GlenFed said it would submit a capital restoration plan to the Office of Thrift Supervision by June 1. It noted that the thrift office could impose a range of sanctions if it is not satisfied with the plan.
 
 
Chief Had Resigned
 Citing the troubled commercial real estate market, GlenFed had predicted the loss last month, when Norman M. Coulson resigned as chairman and chief executive. He was replaced as chief executive by Stephen J. Trafton, a vice chairman who has headed cost-cutting and retrenchment efforts.
The loss for the January-March period, the third quarter of GlenFed's fiscal year, compared with net income of $1.4 million, or 4 cents a share, a year earlier.
GlenFed set aside $131.8 million for loan losses in the quarter, and another $17 million for losses on repossessed real estate. It reduced the carrying value of its direct real estate investments by $66 million.
There were positive signs. Operating expenses fell. GlenFed benefited as interest rates on certificates of deposit fell faster than those on adjustable-rate loans. Its interest spread -- the margin between its cost of funds and return on loans -- rose to 3.01 percent by March 31, up from 2.54 percent a year earlier.
Net interest income was $126.6 million for the quarter, compared with $113.3 million a year earlier.
But mounting loan and real estate troubles showed in the percentage of assets classified as nonperforming, which rose to 4.45 percent, from 2.94 percent in March 1991.
 The results contrasted with reports Thursday from two stronger California competitors.
The Great Western Financial Corporation, parent of Great Western Bank, said its quarterly profit rose 18 percent, to $81.6 million. The Golden West Financial Corporation, the parent of World Savings, said its earnings rose 33 percent, to $70 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GLENFED INC; GLENFED INC; GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK GLENFED INC (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GREAT WESTERN FINANCIAL CORP (64%); GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (58%); GREAT WESTERN BANK FSB (52%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLENFED INC; GLENFED INC; GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES; COMPANY REPORTS REAL ESTATE (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REPOSSESSION (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEREGULATION (69%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



592 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: GREENSPAN OFFERS MORE UPBEAT VIEW ON ECONOMIC DATA

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
Encouraged by a series of upbeat statistics in the last few days, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said today that the economy grew at an annual rate of 2 percent in the January-March quarter.
That is an unusually specific projection for Mr. Greenspan and is more optimistic than his previous statements. Such a growth rate would make the quarter the best since the comparable 1989 period, during which President Bush was inaugurated. 
 The Fed chief, who scarcely a week ago produced a surprise cut in interest rates widely viewed as insurance for a fragile recovery, thus joined the growing contingent of private analysts who have begun scrambling to raise estimates for gross domestic product, the broadest gauge of economic performance.
"The first quarter will come in at that rate," Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee after Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, challenged a 2 percent figure that had been under discussion. At another point, when chided for assertions on other occasions that recovery was at hand, Mr. Greenspan responded, "I said that -- and I will repeat it today."
 
Less Robust Than Normal
 Mr. Greenspan noted that the current rebound was far less robust than normal, with the average postwar recovery posting first-year growth of about 6 percent. But even a 2 percent rate this quarter, a pace he suggested would be accelerating as 1992 unfolds, would be markedly above the consensus 1.2 percent gain predicted by 50 economists in the monthly Blue Chip survey dated last Friday.
The recovery, the Fed chief said, "is going at a modest pace but it is progressing."
The Commerce Department is scheduled to make its initial estimate of first-quarter output on April 28.
Mr. Greenspan specifically cited as grounds for optimism today's report showing that builders broke ground for new homes and apartments at a March rate that was 6.4 percent faster than in February. He also mentioned reports on Thursday showing a second straight hefty decline in first-time claims for unemployment benefits for the week ended April 4 and a big February decline in the nation's foreign-trade deficit, which stands at the lowest level in almost nine years.
Even as the economy gathers momentum, the Fed chief added, inflation should "continue to ease off." This suggested that Mr. Greenspan, who was not pressed on the subject, agreed with the many economists who regarded last Friday's report of a five-tenths of 1 percent jump in the Consumer Price Index as an aberration.
Mr. Greenspan's comments about the economy were prompted by questions from Mr. Sarbanes and the other committee member present, Donald W. Riegle Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is the committee's chairman. The subject that Mr. Greenspan was formally asked to address, along with Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was what effect the decline in both stock market and real estate prices in Japan would have on the United States.
In the course of explaining the Fed's earlier denial that the tumbling Japanese stock market inspired the Fed's decision last week to cut a key short-term interest rate to 3 3/4 percent from 4 percent, Mr. Greenspan said that the Tokyo plunge had actually delayed the rate cut.
 
Rate Cut Delayed
 "It inhibited us from moving slightly sooner," Mr. Greenspan said, declaring that the central bank had held off on an earlier decision because of what it thought would have been an inappropriate move in the midst of churning markets.
When asked whether he considered it legitimate for the Fed to try to stabilize the Tokyo market, which had tumbled nearly 11 percent in the four days before the cut, Mr. Greenspan said, "I don't think we have that capability," certainly not, he added, if the weapon was to be a one-quarter- point cut in the rate for Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans.
Mr. Greenspan, who acknowledged that an annual growth rate of 2 percent was inadequate, gave no clue as to whether he thought further cuts in interest rates would be necessary. But when asked by Senator Riegle whether there wasn't something more that could be done to spur recovery, the Fed chief said it was essential that long-term interest rates continue to decline. This, he added, meant avoiding significant fiscal stimulation, such as cutting taxes or raising Government spending.
 
Little Risk From Japan
 The plunge in Japanese stock prices, which resumed today with a 2.11 percent decline in the benchmark 225-stock Nikkei average, poses little risk either to the American economy or securities markets, Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Breeden agreed.
"The impact on the United States from Japanese stock price changes to date are likely to be limited," Mr. Greenspan said, testifying after a rally of several days by the Dow Jones industrial average into record territory and on a day when American securities markets were closed for Good Friday.
He and Mr. Breeden described what they said was weak correlation in movements among major markets, which are currently dominated by domestic forces directly affecting corporate profits.
 
Fed to Monitor Tokyo
 Mr. Greenspan did, however, describe the more than 30 percent drop in Japanese stock prices since October -- there was a 40 percent tumble in 1990 -- as "a significant development," one that the Fed would monitor closely. More declines could further slow Japan's already much-reduced rate of economic growth and thereby diminish its appetite for American exports, he said.
Mr. Breeden said it was important to realize that Japanese stocks have been falling for more than two years. "This decline has been prolonged and gradual, rather than short and precipitous," he told the committee. "This has allowed market participants the greatest ability to adjust to the elimination of the speculative bubble that clearly had been created in Japanese stocks in the 1980's."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan talked to Richard C. Breeden, the he of the S.E.C., as the two men prepared to testify yesterday before the Senate Banking Committee. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN UNITED STATES (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); JOHN P SARBANES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



593 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Starts of Housing Up 6.4% on Surge in Apartment Building

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
The United States economy continued to flash signs of an economic rebound as construction of new homes and apartments rose last month to their highest level in two years, the Government said today.
Private economists cautioned that the 6.4 percent increase probably overstated the strength in housing because the gain came solely from a surge in apartment building that they said was unsustainable. Single-family starts actually fell during the month. 
 But they added that a string of unexpectedly strong economic reports so far this year indicated that the long-awaited economic recovery was moving faster than previously thought possible.
The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, told a Congressional committee that the good economic news, including the rise in housing construction, was consistent with an economy "moving forward in a modest way."
 
No False Start
 David Berson, chief economist of the Federal National Mortgage Association, said that "unlike last year's false start, I think we are finally going to break out of the economic weakness we have been in since 1989."
Today's report on housing showed that builders started construction on single-family homes and apartments at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.37 million units last month, a 6.4 percent rise that followed an even bigger increase of 8.7 percent in February.
The March increase pushed the annual construction rate to its highest level since February 1990.
The gain was unexpected because analysts had believed that construction activity would fall in March after having been artificially inflated by warm weather in January and February.
The March increase was centered in the South and West, with small declines in the Northeast and the Midwest. Although economists worried that the gain in starts was overstated because it came mostly from multifamily construction, they said that four straight months of increases in housing construction showed that the industry was responding to low mortgage rates.
 
Watch of the Fed
 While rates have crept up from their 19-year low of 8.23 percent in January, analysts said the Fed's move to cut the Federal funds rate last week and promises of further action if needed would probably help to push mortgage rates down somewhat in the weeks ahead.
Fixed-rate mortgages this week registered a fourth consecutive decline, averaging 8.76 percent, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation said. They had hit 9.03 percent in late March.
David Seiders, chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, said he believed housing would continue to be one of the star performers for the economy, although he said he was concerned about a jump of 20 percent in lumber prices in recent weeks.
He said that unless those prices retreated in coming months, they would add between 5 percent and 7 percent to the cost of a new home and act to depress sales.
Today's housing report showed that single-family construction fell a slight 2.7 percent during March to an annual rate of 1.1 million units. The apartment sector, however, surged 74.5 percent, to an annual rate of 265,000 units, after having declined 20.4 percent in February.
 
Pent-Up Demand Expected
 Analysts said the March surge in apartment construction was unsustainable given currently high vacancy rates, but they said weakness in this area would be offset by further gains in single-family homes as builders respond to pent-up demand in coming months.
The number of permits for new construction edged down 6.5 percent in March to an annual rate of 1.09 million units, but Mr. Greenspan and private economists dismissed the drop, given the fact that permits had shown a great deal of strength since December.
By regions, construction of new homes and apartments jumped 11.5 percent, to an annual rate of 554,000 units in the South, and were up 12.3 percent, to an annual rate of 319,000 units in the West.
Housing starts edged down a small 1.3 percent in the Northeast to an annual rate of 149,000 units and were off 2.3 percent in the Midwest to an annual rate of 343,000 units.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing started and permits authorized from 10/90 to 3/92 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY HOUSING STARTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



594 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: When Products Are Tied to Causes

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It used to be that the last thing companies wanted to do was to take a stance on a controversial issue that could offend a single customer. Aiming to please everyone, they chose to help mainstream, do-good causes to which only a Scrooge would object: Toys for Tots, Easter Seals, the March of Dimes.
But a new generation of corporate executives, by linking their products to abortion rights, AIDS prevention, gun control and other issues that roil the nation, is gradually beginning to change the way many goods and services are sold. Point-of-purchase politics, as it is called, aims to appeal to some consumers but definitely not to others, winnowing them through a striking strategy of speaking out. 
 Companies are finding that their politics can be good for business. Leading adherents of point-of-purchase politics, like the Benetton clothing chain and Ben & Jerry's ice cream, are enjoying record sales and profits. Their success has emboldened more traditionally minded marketing giants to link their own products with causes.
Time Warner, Hearst, Sara Lee and Heublein are cautiously supporting causes that combine charity and politics. Sara Lee's Hanes apparel unit has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars in money and clothing to a foundation that helps the homeless. Heublein introduced a vodka by sponsoring the AIDS Dance-athon in New York, organized by the Gay Men's Health Crisis.
Nigel Carr, director of brand planning for the Kirshenbaum & Bond advertising agency in New York, said that for many a product, provocation can pay. "The meaning it has to people who don't like it is as important as the meaning it has to people who do," Mr. Carr said.
Many of the advertisements for these products read like protest signs. The Esprit de Corp. clothing maker runs magazine advertisements in which young people assert what they would do about gun control, AIDS and abortion rights. "Keep a woman's right to choose . . . unless George Bush is free to baby-sit," one advertisement says.
 
Approach by Working Assets
 The Working Assets Funding Service seeks customers for a long-distance telephone service that every time they dial a call, donates 1 percent of the charges to groups including Amnesty International, Greenpeace and the American Civil Liberties Union. A Working Assets print advertisement shows a protester making an obscene gesture, under the headline "Twenty years later, we've given people a better way to put this finger to use."
Many untraditional marketers were 1960's activists, and most of their causes are left wing. Point-of-sale politics is the latest example of how liberals, exiled from the White House for more than a decade, now pursue their goals through commerce -- while conservatives, who have long dominated the world of business, have been achieving many of their goals through politics. You will probably not see pints of ice cream anytime soon tied to causes dear to Pat & Jesse (Buchanan and Helms).
Longer-standing strategies for welding commerce to causes include credit cards that help benefit groups like the Sierra Club and mutual funds that invest only in companies deemed socially responsible. "If the political system doesn't express what we want, fine," said Peter Barnes, the president of Working Assets. "People will express themselves through the marketplace."
 
Some Political in Word Only
 While companies often present themselves as altruistic crusaders for righteous causes, philanthropic groups and business executives are loudly clearing their throats. They question whether some businesses are merely basking in an aura of caring, without the commitment.
"Some companies that are political in their advertising have absolutely no political involvement," said Neil Kraft, Esprit's former image director, now at Calvin Klein in New York. "It's already becoming a gimmick, and that worries me."
To traditional marketers, activism has been a prescription for marketing suicide. It runs the risk of generating resentment among consumers who either disagree with the company's opinions or resent corporate proselytizing. Working Assets, for example, is on boycott lists of right-wing and fundamentalist religious organizations like the Christian Action Council, Mr. Barnes said.
 
Sea Change in Marketing
 Yet his approach has become popular, and possible, because of a sea change in marketing, primarily a shift from mass marketing, or being all things to all people, to market segmentation, or slicing the mass market into smaller pieces.
"We are trying to serve a niche, of people who believe in 'controversial' causes," said Mr. Barnes, whose company also lets consumers donate a nickel from each credit-card purchase to what its advertising calls "hard-hitting advocacy groups." "Sure, we're not trying to please everybody, like A.T.& T., MCI and Sprint do. It's fine with us that people who oppose a woman's right to choose not become customers."
That is the strategy being followed by a growing list of companies, primarily smaller concerns that portray themselves as socially committed Davids battling uninvolved Goliaths. Among them: the Kenar clothing company; the Ringer Corporation, which makes lawn-care products; Stonyfield Farm, a dairy-products company, and Kenneth Cole Productions, a shoe company.
 
Products Matched to Causes
 "We're not a mass marketer," said Holly Alves, marketing director of Ben & Jerry's Homemade Inc. in Waterbury, Vt. For every cause, the company has a product or flavor: a percentage of Peace Pops sales goes to pacifist groups, Rainforest Crunch benefits rain forest preservation, and Wild Maine Blueberry aids that state's blueberry-growing Passamaquoddy Indians.
Companies often find that their messages suit their markets. "People feel good supporting people who believe in the same things they do," said Kenneth D. Cole, president of Cole Productions. He has been deeply involved in point-of-purchase politics since he ran an advertisement in 1985 in support of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, or Amfar.
By relating product pitches to real-life issues more important than the choice of tissue brands, point-of-purchase politics also appeals to those who disdain the hype and hoopla of conventional advertising.
 
Advertising Opinions
 Companies involved in the phenomenon make their opinions known in their advertising, on their packages, on aisle displays and on signs at cash registers and other points of purchase (hence the term point-of-purchase politics).
Sebastian International of Woodland Hills, Calif., has established Club Unite (for Unity Now Is a Tomorrow for Everyone), which customers at about 6,000 hair salons nationwide can join. Members can make donations to any of seven organizations, including the Design Industries Foundation for AIDS and the Rainforest Foundation. In return, the salons hand out samples of Sebastian hair-care products.
"It's a little strange to be happening in a salon," said John Sebastian, the company's chief executive. "But where is it going to happen? A bank? A lawyer's office?"
 
20 Million Socially Conscious
 For the 20 million Americans who, according to surveys, consider themselves socially conscious, point-of-sale politics can distinguish a company as directly as a logo or a slogan.
Anita Roddick, managing director of Body Shop International, a chain of cosmetics stores well known for backing controversial causes, said that many of these customers were "activists in the 60's, who didn't know we were not allowed to bring our values or ideals to work with us."
Stepping into a Body Shop can be like attending a protest rally. Product labels plead against testing cosmetics on animals. Signs at the cash register promote recycling and conservation. Bags ask shoppers to join Amnesty International. Volunteers offer voter registration on the spot.
 
Complaint About Benetton
 But even among point-of-sale philanthropists, there can be hard feelings. Some executives accuse others of cynical opportunism. Critics have complained that a current Benetton magazine advertisement, featuring a photograph of an AIDS patient at the moment of his death, cruelly exploited the issue because there was no information about AIDS charities or prevention.
The Philanthropic Advisory Service in Washington, which collects data on charities, warns that some companies imply they will increase donations to causes if consumers buy more of their products, when in fact the companies had already agreed to donate fixed amounts.
Marketers are now striving for sincerity, stressing that their activism grows out of corporate philosophies -- "mission statements," as they are known -- and true commitment. While Ms. Alves assures investors that Ben & Jerry's "is a very marketing-driven company," she says it was founded on 60's values that are embodied by the company's leaders. "It was not that marketing said, 'This would look good as an image for the company.' "
 
Spreading to Mass-Marketers
 As with many marketing practices that start among smaller companies, point-of-purchase politics is spreading to mass-marketers. To introduce Tarkhuna, a vodka imported from the former Soviet republic of Georgia, the Heublein subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan P.L.C. sponsored the AIDS Dance-athon.
To aid the homeless, Sara Lee's Hanes unit has donated $250,000 in cash and more than $100,000 worth of clothing to homeless families through the Better Homes Foundation, sponsored by the Meredith Corporation's Better Homes and Gardens magazine.
Other media conglomerates besides Meredith are joining in, promoting magazines aimed at niche markets, especially the young.
 
'Obviously Risks Involved'
 "There are obviously risks involved," said Dan Osheyack, promotion director of Entertainment Weekly, a Time Warner magazine in New York, which pegs all its promotional events to fighting AIDS. But considering the concerns of the entertainment industry and the magazine's readers, he added, "It's the right thing for us to do."
Larger mass-marketers, however, can be particularly vulnerable to backlashes. Sears, Roebuck & Company promised the Humane Society of the United States 8 percent of the proceeds from sales of special stuffed animals in its "Great American Wishbook 1991" catalogue. The National Rifle Association complained. Sears stopped selling the animals.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Point-of-purchase politics is becoming increasingly popular among consumer-product companies. Concerns like Body Shop International, Esprit de Corp. and Kenneth Cole Productions take stands on controversial issues in their advertising and packaging in an appeal to specific segments of their markets. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SRL (LSE) (91%); SLE (NYSE) (91%); SARA (AMS) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (69%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (65%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BENETTON GROUP; BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC; BODY SHOP INTERNATIONAL PLC; ESPRIT DE CORP (CO) ; COLE, KENNETH, PRODUCTIONS INC; SARA LEE CORP BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (69%); ESPRIT DE CORP (65%); WORKING ASSETS FUNDING SERVICE (52%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENETTON GROUP; BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC; BODY SHOP INTERNATIONAL PLC; ESPRIT DE CORP (CO) ; COLE, KENNETH, PRODUCTIONS INC; SARA LEE CORP GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PUBLIC OPINION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CORPORATIONS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GUN CONTROL (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); ICE CREAM (74%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); ABORTION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MEN (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); APPAREL MFG (68%); BRANDING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



595 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Flat in Light Trading

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar moved only slightly against other currencies yesterday, since most financial markets in Europe were closed for Good Friday. Gold markets were also closed.
The Tokyo and New York markets were the only leading currency markets open yesterday. In Europe, only the Italian, French and Belgian foreign-exchange markets were open. The main European markets will remain closed on Monday. 
 Traders said the New York market unofficially wrapped up for the week around 1 P.M., since there were few dealers.
Virtually all activity consisted of customer orders rather than the steady interbank trading seen on normal business days, dealers said.
Not even better-than-expected data on housing starts or testimony on Capitol Hill by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, budged the market, said Mike Faust, a currency market analyst with MMS International.
The Commerce Department said construction of new houses and apartments climbed 6.4 percent in March to the highest level in two years. Many economists had predicted that housing starts would fall in March.
In his testimony, Mr. Greenspan said any spillover effect in the United States from the plunge in the Japanese stock market was "likely to be limited."
Both developments were seen as positive indicators for the American economy, and on a normal trading day should have lifted the dollar, Mr. Faust said.
In New York, the dollar traded at 133.95 Japanese yen, unchanged from late Thursday. In Tokyo, the dollar rose 0.45 yen, to 133.90. In Europe, it was quoted at 133.90.
Also in New York, the British pound fell to $1.7455, from $1.7460 late Thursday. In Europe, the pound rose to $1.7488 from $1.7477.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with the late Thursday rates, included: 1.6690 German marks, up from 1.6685; 1.5445 Swiss francs, up from 1.5440; 5.64325 French francs, up from 5.6405; 1,255.00 Italian lire, up from 1,254.25, and 1.1816 Canadian dollars, down from 1.18215.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (88%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (88%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available CURRENCIES (92%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); INTERBANK LENDING (55%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



596 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Major Unit Dissolved At Digital

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 17

 BODY:
The Digital Equipment Corporation, still reeling from last week's announcement of a $294 million quarterly loss, is radically overhauling its corporate engineering structure in a move that analysts expect to lead to huge layoffs.
The company has not made an official announcement, but in response to an inquiry today it confirmed a report circulating among analysts that it was dissolving its hardware engineering group and moving its functions into the marketing division. 
 A company spokeswoman, Nikki Richardson, said the move was set in motion by Ken Olsen, the company's founder and president, to provide a better alignment between engineering and Digital's customers.
 
Second Revamping in Six Months
 The reorganization, the company's second in less than six months, leaves several longtime Digital vice presidents without roles at the company.
The move to place hardware engineering under marketing represents a radical shift in the corporate culture of Digital, which for all its 35-year history has been heavily focused on engineering. Mr. Olsen, an engineer himself, had always contended that the company should concentrate on building excellent products that would essentially sell themselves.
Terry Shannon, a consultant in Ashland, Mass., who follows Digital, said he did not believe that the move was a knee-jerk reaction to the quarterly loss. He added that it seemed as if Digital's marketing vice president, William Johnson, had convinced Mr. Olsen it was time for the company "to have products the customers want, rather than building products and having to convince customers to buy them."
 
30,000 Jobs Could Go
 David Smith, a consultant at the International Data Corporation in Framingham, Mass., and former Digital engineer, said: "I heard marketing was going to be running the show, and I didn't believe it. This could signal a fundamental change in the way the company does business."
Mr. Smith said he believed that the move was a direct reaction to Digital's sagging business fortunes. "Ken Olsen is clearly less than pleased with the way the company is being run by his senior managers," he added.
George Colony, president of Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said, "This may be in preparation for rather massive layoffs." He estimated that Digital needed to cut 30,000 employees from its payroll in order to get its costs in line.
"This could signal the elimination of a lot of redundant functions in engineering," he said.
The depth of Digital's financial woes has surprised industry analysts. The announcement by the company of its new Alpha microprocessor in February was hailed by many as a significant technological achievement that would form the platform for Digital's computers for the next decade. Digital is also receiving accolades for its recent entry and strong showing in the direct-mail personal computer business.
 
Margins Too Low on PC Sales
 But the margins on PC sales are too low to offset slumping sales of Digital's mid- and high-end VAX computers. And computers employing the Alpha chip are not due out until late this year or early in 1993. Analysts say that these problems and Digital's continuing battle with internal cost reductions are making it difficult for the company to turn things around.
Ms. Richardson, the Digital spokeswoman, said the move was not a reaction to last week's earnings announcement and was intended "to reinforce the marketing orientation of the company and get engineering close to the customer again."
She added that a recent organizational change, which had split hardware and software engineering into two separate organizations, had "severed engineering's link to our customers."
No executives were available to discuss the changes, she said.
Under the new plan, engineering will be broken into four areas, each part of a separate Digital business unit. Robert Palmer will be responsible for manufacturing and logistics and for component engineering; David Stone for software engineering; Charles F. Christ for departmental systems and small to medium-size enterprises, and Frank McCabe for global information systems.
 
Three Executives in Shuffle
 Suddenly without a role is William Strecker, 48 years old, who headed Digital's hardware engineering unit. Mr. Strecker is a highly respected computer architect who did critical work on Digital's best-selling VAX computers and played a major role in setting Digital's product strategy for the last four years.
In addition, Dominic LaCava, who built Digital's low-end systems business, and Grant Saviers, most recently responsible for Digital's personal computer and peripherals business, saw their jobs disappear in the shuffle. The spokeswoman said the three had not left the company and would find roles in the new organization.
An internal Digital memorandum two months ago suggested the company was planning to cut $400 million from its engineering budget. Mr. Smith, the analyst, said this move reinforced Digital's intention to cut out "perpetual projects" -- long-term development efforts that have yielded no sales or profits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (93%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (66%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (93%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (66%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN WILLIAM D JOHNSON (54%); WILLIAM D JOHNSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



597 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Some College Costs Should Be Tax Deductible

BYLINE: By Davidson Goldin; Davidson Goldin, a junior at Cornell University, is editor of The Cornell Daily Sun.

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
As the Government spends increasingly less on student financial aid, many leading colleges and universities are using a greater percentage of tuition revenues for scholarships. Just as income tax breaks are given for charitable contributions, this portion of tuition should be tax deductible.
Statistics compiled by the Consortium on Financing Higher Education, which does research and analysis for 32 member colleges, show the growing importance of tuition for scholarships. In 1980, the consortium schools spent an average 9.8 percent of tuition revenues on financial aid; last year, that figure rose to 15.9 percent. It will continue to rise as Federal and state financing drops further. 
 The median tuition at the consortium schools in 1991 was approximately $15,000 per year. These schools devoted an average of $2,400 from each student's tuition to discounts for students with financial need.
Of the consortium schools, the University of Chicago spent the largest portion of tuition on aid in 1991: 30.7 percent of its $15,135 tuition. Brown, Cornell, Columbia, John Hopkins, Stanford, Wesleyan and Williams spent 14 percent to 16 percent. Princeton spent the least, 1.4 percent, but it finances an unusually large portion of student aid from its permanent endowment. Other schools include Rochester (28.6 percent), Harvard (8.6 percent) and Pennsylvania (19.5 percent).
After four years, families paying full tuition often provide more than $10,000 for easing the economic burden of others but do not receive any tax relief for this contribution to society. Scholarships based on financial need promote a socio-economically diverse student body, and they enable economically strapped students to attend top schools.
Many tax-deductible contributions enhance the quality of life in a community or promote social, cultural and educational programs -- gifts to orchestras, churches, social welfare agencies and libraries, and so on. All donations to colleges are tax deductible, whether the money is used for scholarships, an endowed professorship or a new building.
Tuition, unlike these voluntary contributions, is obligatory. Yet the portion of tuition that directly finances scholarships is in effect a charitable contribution, so it deserves the same tax treatment. In the tuition bill, schools should disclose the percentage of tuition set aside specifically for financial aid. Unlike the portions of tuition that pay for the educational enterprise -- faculty and administration salaries, security and maintenance -- the amount allotted for aid does not directly benefit those who provide the money.
Many families considered able to afford exorbitant tuition fees are hard-pressed to pay the bill. Many parents have refinanced their homes, incurred long-term debt and forfeited countless purchases and opportunities to pay for a college education.
All students benefit from the social and economic diversity that would be impossible without scholarships. Our society, which similarly thrives on diversity, should reward those who pay extra to make it possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; TAX DEDUCTIONS; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS TUITION FEES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, DAVIDSON

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1992



598 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 10; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: ON LANGUAGE;
Engagement Party

BYLINE: By William Safire

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton, searching for a new and different word to describe his foreign policy -- not isolationist, but not too interventionist -- floated out "a new strategy for American engagement." The choice, he told the Foreign Policy Association, was "whether we will engage or abstain."
Eyebrows shot up at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank. Kim R. Holmes, its foreign-policy chief, had only the week before circulated a speech centered on "Selective Engagement: A New Global Strategy." 
 And a month before that, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d titled a portion of a speech "From Containment to Collective Engagement." The early cold war strategy called containment of communism, promulgated by George (Mr. X) Kennan, was to be replaced by a policy of collective engagement that Baker defined, in a burst of turgidity, as "nations taking concerted action to pursue common interests and solve common problems."
(Note that the State Department still uses the word policy; at the White House, and at think tanks that incubate future national-security advisers, the only word to use is strategy. Policy is bookish; strategy is fun.)
Where did the Baker State Department get its use of engagement from? Not from the Pentagon, which considers an engagement a battle, and is not seeking to engage an enemy without at least a half-million troops in place and the fervent support of the American people. No, this noun comes from the frequently used verb engage, as used by diplomats in "engage in a dialogue." That is steeped in the French gage, a token or pledge given to insure performance, and is the source of engagement ring. ("She's lovely. She's engaged. She uses Pond's" was the slogan back when cleansing cream was cold cream. We used to wonder how many of those models went ahead and got married.)
The immediate source of the current run of lovely engagements in diplolingo is, I think, the 1988 campaign platform of Gary Hart. With a nice touch of alliteration, he spoke of enlightened engagement, which would disentangle the United States from outdated alliances and foolish adventurism without withdrawing from useful associations and necessary interventions.
Disengage that clutch of fear: abstinence from global responsibility does not make the heart grow fonder. Hawks and doves alike have adopted engagement as the strategy of the future. Now, says the waitress: How do you like your engagement? Selective, collective, enlightened. . . .
 
THE GAUGE GOUGE
"A JAPANESE FRIEND AND I went to rent a car," writes Kevin P. Kearney of San Francisco. "We sat in the parking lot trying to decipher all the doohickeys and thingamabobs on the Pontiac Bonneville. She pointed to the second of two words in 'system gages' and asked, 'Is that correct?'
"When did the variant spelling of gauges become acceptable? It looks wrong no matter how long I look at it."
Gauge is a hard word to spell. The temptation is to invert a couple of letters to make it come out guage, the last syllable in language, or to simplify it -- as did the makers of the new Pontiac rented by Kearney's friend -- by spelling it the way it is pronounced, gage.
But that would be wrong, as Richard Nixon used to say. The word spelled gage, as noted in the engagement item above, means "token," and is akin to the Old High German for "wed." The word spelled gauge, from Old North French, means "a standard of measurement," with a bunch of senses that flow from that.
For some five centuries, people on occasion have dropped the u in gauge; that's long enough to make it a variant, which is how philologists say "sort of correct" when a mistake is made often enough for long enough. But most people have hung on to the u, and I would not abandon it just because some officious or wrongheaded supervisor at General Motors likes to mislead our Japanese friends by printing his own variant on the dashboards of Pontiak Bonnyvilles.
 
 
CRISIS CRISIS
 THE USE OF THE WORD CRISIS as an attributive noun should be noted. In the old days, crisis was the noun being modified, as in Cuban missile crisis. Now it is doing the modifying.
Irene S. Pollin, M.S.W. (that stands for Master of Social Work), spoke at a recent meeting of the Linda Pollin Foundation in Bethesda, Md., discussing controversies about counseling the chronically ill. Her subject was the evolution of the curriculum in medical crisis counseling.
Joseph J. Sisco is a veteran diplomat; when I ran into him on a street near the White House and asked what he was doing these days, he said he was in crisis assessment. This is political and economic risk analysis for companies thinking of doing business in hot spots.
Here's an announcement from Clifford A. Miller of Burbank, Calif., whom I used to know as a great public relations man, but whose new shingle reads "Strategic Counsel" (presumably, how to stay out of trouble) and "Crisis Management" (what to do if you didn't listen to the first advice).
Vice President Quayle, like President Bush before him, is chairman of the crisis-management team that assembles in the Situation Room on not-so-dull days. (Why isn't that basement conference room called the Crisis Center? Because the White House does not want the public to get excited every time it is put in use. "I don't think we met down there during the Cuban missile crisis," says McGeorge Bundy, who was President Kennedy's National Security Adviser in 1961, when the communications center was named the Situation Room. He does not recollect who named it that, nor does Ted Sorensen, a Kennedy aide. The widow of Bromley Smith, then the executive director of the National Security Council, promises to dig around in this historical lexicographic quest, but if anyone else can shed light on the sit-room situation, holler.)
The first use of crisis as an attributive noun in my recollection was by Dr. Morton Bard, a psychologist working with the New York Police Department in the 1960's on what he called family-crisis intervention.
Crisis is the critical new modifier; one of these days we will see a strategy maker (former policy maker) come up with crisis engagement.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RENT-A-CAR CO INC (61%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (58%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (58%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



599 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JANET PIORKO

 BODY:
SUMMER HOTEL RATES Inter-Continental Hotels offers discount programs in Europe, Asia and North America this summer.
In Europe, where the program runs June 19 to Sept. 7, there are 37 participating Inter-Continental and Forum hotels in 29 cities. For example, the rate is $119 a night at the Athenaeum in Athens and the Inter-Continentals in Cologne and Helsinki, and $269 a night at the Metropol in Moscow. 
 In Asia, where 12 hotels are participating in the Summer Spectacular program from June 1 to Sept. 7, sample rates are $125 at the Siam Inter-Continental, Bangkok, and $195 at the Inter-Continental Sydney.
In both Europe and Asia, rates are guaranteed in United States dollars. They are per room, single or double occupancy, and include tax, service charge and American breakfast for two.
The North American program, called Spectacular Summer Options, runs May 22 to Sept. 7. Sample rates are $149 at the Mark Hopkins Inter-Continental San Francisco, $159 at the Maui Inter-Continental Resort, and $199 at the Willard Inter-Continental Washington. Guests also get a free option such as an upgrade to a suite or a 50 percent discount on an adjoining room. Tax and tips are extra.
Reservations are required, and the rates are subject to availability. Call Inter-Continental at (800) 327-0200.
CRUISE-TOUR PACKAGE Trafalgar Tours has a package that combines a trans-Atlantic crossing on the QE2, a tour of Britain and a one-way economy-class flight between New York and London. In low season, prices range from $1,795 to $3,285 a person, double occupancy, depending on the cabin, for a package that includes a May 8 sailing from Southampton; for peak summer sailings, the range is $2,380 to $4,290. Participants can select from various 8- and 10-day tours as part of the package. Taxes and port charges are extra. Reservations through travel agents only; for a brochure, call (800) 352-4444.
CARIBBEAN RESORTS The Bitter End Yacht Club and Resort on Virgin Gorda in the British Virgin Islands has a Two Room Family Plan through Sept. 16, priced from $3,570 for a family of four (two adults and two children 6 to 16). It includes accommodations in two adjacent rooms, three meals a day, sailing and scuba lessons and unlimited use of the resort's boats and sailboards. Contact the resort's corporate office at (800) 872-2392.
Harbour Village Beach Resort on Bonaire is offering a free night to guests staying four to six nights and two free nights to those staying seven or more nights. The offer is good through Dec. 19. Rates from April 26 through Dec. 19 range from $135 to $275 a night for a room. Guests have free use of kayaks, windsurfers and Sunfish sailboats. Call (800) 424-0004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (58%); IHG (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FINLAND (88%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: INTER-CONTINENTAL & FORUM HOTELS (94%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (58%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); FINLAND (88%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING; RATES; NYTRAVEL HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESORTS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); TOUR PACKAGES (70%); TOUR OPERATORS (70%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); FAMILY (69%); SAILING (68%); WATER SPORTS (68%); TRAVEL AGENTS (66%); SCUBA DIVING (61%); BEACHES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992



600 of 959 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Second-Home Market Gets a Nudge

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
THE catchphrase "buyer's market" may be heard almost everywhere in the real estate world these days, but there are few places where it is more applicable than in the second-home market.
In the wake of the 1987 stock market plunge, the subsequent recession and changes in the Federal tax code that have made owning a second home less attractive, sales of condominiums, beach houses and country homes have contracted sharply, sending prices plummeting by as much as 30 percent in some areas. Those price drops, along with generally lower interest rates, open windows of opportunity for city dwellers who have longed for a country place but found it too costly 
 In Stowe, Vt., for example, where the bulk of the residences are second homes, the average sale price of a three-bedroom house on one acre with a mountain view fell from $222,000 in 1988 to about $150,000 today. Condominiums that sold for $175,000 in 1988 now sell for $100,000.
On Cape Cod, also a center of vacation homes, the median price fell 17 percent, from $169,300 in 1988 to $142,700 last year. And in Delaware County, N.Y., where nonresidents own 60 percent of the homes, the price of a two- to three-bedroom home on an acre in the foothills of the Catskills has fallen to $75,000 from $100,000.
"Last year has got to be the worst I've seen in 28 years," said David G. Adams, past president of the New York State Association of Realtors and the owner of a real estate company in Walton, N.Y.
But the market for vacation and weekend houses has been showing signs of a revival of late, real estate analysts say, citing a spurt in sales and inquiries over the last three months. They credit the reduced prices at which the properties are being offered throughout the Northeast and beyond. Some even predict that sales of vacation homes will rise sharply over the next 10 to 15 years as the baby-boom generation enters its prime earning years.
Norman and Judy Norton recently bought an A-frame for $180,000 on Lake Wallenpaupack, near Hawley, Pa., 30 miles northeast of Scranton and about 90 minutes from their home in Basking Ridge, N.J. Two and a half years ago it was offered for $295,000.
"I've always liked it, always wanted to buy a house up there," said Mr. Norton, who owns a medical technology company and plans to use his second home for weekends and vacations. "Now, at the age of 37, I am in the position to do that, and the market is right."
Paul Spera, a real estate agent in Stowe and a former regional vice president of the National Association of Realtors, said: "The investor-buyer of second homes, the one who rented them out and used them as a tax shelter, has almost disappeared. But the market is awakening very favorably with user-owners. We were at the bottom for most of '91, but there has been a very nice resurgence for the past three months."
IN Stowe, Mr. Spera noted, there were 77 transactions in the first three months of 1992, against 35 for the same period a year ago.
The dollar volume also increased, from $2.4 million to $5 million. And on Cape Cod, 224 sales were reported from Jan. 1 to Feb. 20 this year compared with 118 for the same period in 1991.
"We hit a low here in 1990, came back up in 1991 and are continuing up in 1992," said Charles F. Lockhart, executive vice president of the Cape Cod and Islands Board of Realtors in South Yarmouth, Mass.
"The banks around here are advertising packages and giving breaks in points and the size of the down payment. The only thing keeping us from going wild is the unemployment situation."
Even in some economically hard-hit areas, such as southeastern Connecticut, where 4,000 people are expected to be laid off this year at the Electric Boat submarine shipyard in Groton, the second-home market is showing renewed signs of life.
"We have been swamped for the last two or three weekends with out-of-towners, second-home people looking to take advantage of the down market," said Ann M. Crotty, sales manager of Westledge Realty in Mystic, a small town nestled between New London and Stonington on Long Island Sound.
"Homes that were in the $300,000 range in Stonington Borough are now priced at $195,000, $185,000."
The East End of Long Island is also seeing a comeback.
"We are 22 percent ahead of this time last year," said Barbara D. Sloan, vice president at Allan M. Schneider and Associates in East Hampton. "I would say the market has regained a little sanity."
Statistics are difficult to come by because "second home" is defined by use rather than construction. Moreover, the best studies, by the Bureau of the Census and the National Association of Realtors, are out of date. But according to a 1990 report by the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, about 4 percent of the nation's households own about 5.2 million second homes, and the percentage has not grown in the last 15 to 20 years. Indeed, it may have even fallen.
Even so, both the National Association of Realtors and the National Association of Home Builders believe new construction of second homes will increase, from about 75,000 units a year to 100,000 to 125,000 by 1995.
Any revival of the second-home market, however, depends on the economy's pulling out of the recession, and even then it may remain the domain chiefly of people who can afford to carry two mortgages.
"THERE are a large number of people who do have capital available who have been reluctant to commit because of the overpricing of the market and the uncertainty," Mr. Spera said. "But clearly, the victims of the recession, the overleveraged, are not buyers in this market."
The turnaround may also come in varying strengths depending on the region.
"The restructuring of the economy leaves some questions open," said Steven S. Miner, the research director of Ragatz Associates, a market research firm in Eugene, Ore., that compiled a report on the future of second homes for the National Association of Realtors. "Recovery may become very regional, with some areas steeply up and others down sharply."
He added that the Northwest and the Middle West currently have strong economies and second-home markets; the Northeast, which has more second homes than any other region, is lagging behind in both. He added, though, that in a recession second-home prices slide first and fastest and later come back more steeply. "That is why you see a soft market now, particularly in the East," he said.
The second-home market's recovery in the Northeast is also limited by the growing scarcity of developable lands in areas such as the Hamptons and Cape Cod, and the shortage of available credit, particularly for building on empty land.
Getting a mortgage on empty land is difficult, said Michael S. Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders.
"But for a second home," he added, "it's not as hard, just a little harder than for a primary home, although you can't get a Farmers Home or V.A. loan for a second home."
As for taxes, the Tax Reform Act of 1986, specifically the loss of deductibility for passive losses, has removed investors from the market. Owners of a second home can still deduct their mortgage interest and taxes, provided the mortgages don't add up to more than $1 million.
Moreover, if the home is rented out for only 14 days or less, the income is tax free. And if the house is rented for more than 14 days, it can be classified as a rental property, which allows deductions -- up to the amount of rental income generated -- for a variety of expenses, including insurance, maintenance, utilities and improvements, during the period when the house is considered rental property.
Taxes aside, in some areas, particularly those like the Hamptons where second homes are in demand during the summer season, three or four months of rental income can cover a year's worth of mortgage payments.
"If this is really a second home for your personal use, there really has been no change," said Joel Shapiro, national director of real estate at BDO Seidman, an international accounting firm based in Manhattan.
EVE SHAFRAN, and her husband, Steven Verderame, who live in Huntington, L.I., recently bought a 100-year-old second home that overlooks the Lackawaxen and Delaware Rivers about 30 miles north of Scranton, Pa. "I could never go out to the Hamptons -- it's just too congested," she said. "Instead of going for relaxing weekends, it would make me more frustrated."
Another popular area appears to be Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Lorraine Conoby, the president of Landmark Randol Associates, a real estate brokerage firm in Saratoga Springs and president of the Saratoga County Association of Realtors, said that 5 to 10 percent of the region's real estate sales are for second homes, an increase of about 50 percent over the last few years.
"We're starting to get a lot of interest," added Bill O'Gorman, a senior vice president of sales at the Water's Edge on Saratoga Lake, an upscale town-house and one-family-home community being built in Saratoga Springs.
"What they like is that we are three hours away from the city and what you would call country-sophisticated."
Davis R. Chant, the owner of the DRC Group in Milford, Pa., also noted that the conventional wisdom among demographers and real estate experts is that there soon will be a surge of second-homes sales because of the bulge of baby boomers now moving into the 45-to-54 age bracket, the time when they have been the most likely to buy a second home
There are, to be sure, demographic caveats: What if baby boomers spend the funds they would have used on second homes on the rising costs of educating their late-born children? Or on taking care of their aging parents?
"If you want to make money in real estate, there is one simple rule," said John W. Hawks, a demographer who works with Mr. Chant. "Get in front of the baby boomers' demand. That is the constant -- you have to do that.
"If you don't do that, then you don't have a chance," he added. "And if you are behind, you are dead."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST (MONEY) REAL ESTATE (93%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (57%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1992

 
