

201 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Requiem for the Good Times

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
ECONOMIC growth is almost certainly decelerating and could soon cease altogether. The implications of a significant U.S. slowdown or extended depression, accompanied by inflation, are frightening.''
 That is the conclusion Robert Ayres, a scholar at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis in Austria, has come to.
Writing in Rotman, the magazine published by the University of Toronto's business school, Mr. Ayres, a former professor at the international business school Insead, argues that the period of gaining economies of scale from international trade has ''probably peaked'' and that growth through deficit financing can last only so long. 
 ''The U.S. now has a huge and growing trade deficit, entirely financed by foreign investment in U.S. government securities by exporting countries,'' he writes. ''The deficit currently approaches $800 billion, or 7 percent of the U.S. G.D.P., and absorbs close to three-quarters of the savings of the rest of the world. This is unsustainable.''
 On top of that, he says, the United States is running out of natural resources including water, fish and virgin forests, and ''the fact that global reserves of easily recoverable petroleum, natural gas and high-quality metal ores are also finite merely adds to the problem.''
 Even technology advances cannot offset all the problems, he contends. ''Barring a miracle (i.e. a scientific breakthrough of huge proportions, or a radical change in government policy), only further slowdown can be expected in the future,'' he writes in his depressing depiction of America's future.
 DOWNSHIFTING -- Smart Money identifies three companies, well-known names all, that are coping extremely well with slowing growth and increasing competition.
 ''I.B.M. has successfully reinvented itself, leaving behind its hardware roots and making strides in the more profitable software and burgeoning services business,'' Reshma Kapadia writes. Earnings have topped analyst estimates in the last two quarters and the company has also raised its dividend an average of 15 percent a year over the last five years.
 Waste Management has ended its acquisition spree and is now ''focusing on its bottom line, in large part by raising rates,'' Ms. Kapadia writes.
 McDonald's, she adds, ''is also betting on becoming better rather than bigger, boosting return on invested capital rather than crowding the world with too many golden arches.'' Instead of putting more and more restaurants closer together, as it was a couple of years ago, McDonald's is trying to attract more customers at each one, for example, by improving its breakfast offerings.
 The magazine talks to analysts who expect the share price of each of these companies to increase this year.
 THE COMPETENCY TRAP -- It doesn't matter if you are selling soap or software, the process is invariably the same. You introduce a product and if it succeeds, over time you figure out the best way to focus your resources on that line so that you can make more money. The more you sell, the more specialized you become.
 But that specialization keeps you from adapting when the competition figures out what you are doing, or market conditions change. You are caught in what Jeffrey Pfeffer, a Stanford professor writing in Business 2.0, calls the ''competency trap.'' He has three suggestions for avoiding it.
 Avoid excessive specialization: ''Toyota has never put all its eggs in one basket. It makes high-quality trucks, minivans, even hybrids.''
 ''Develop peripheral vision. Markets don't change all at once. Pay attention to the facts, not what you want to believe.''
 Understand that the competency trap is real and that a company's ''great strength can become its greatest weakness when circumstances change.'' To offset it, ''build a mind-set of continuous learning and vigilance.''
 FINAL TAKE -- Money reports that a third of men it surveyed said they preferred that their partner not get them anything for Valentine's Day. 
 Maybe they expect to be disappointed. On average men will spend $138 on Valentine's gifts for their significant others. Women will spend slightly more than half that -- $74 to be precise -- on their beaus. PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FAST FOOD (87%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); DIVIDENDS (66%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (66%); RESTAURANTS (63%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (60%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Computers and the Internet; Waste Materials and Disposal; United States Economy; Corporations; Valentine's Day; Restaurants; Gifts

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR APPLIED SYSTEMS ANALYSIS (58%) Rotman (Magazine); Smart Money (Magazine); International Business Machines Corp; Waste Management Inc; Mcdonald's Corp; Business 2.0 (Magazine); Money (Magazine)

PERSON: Robert Ayres; Reshma Kapadia; Jeffrey Pfeffer; Paul B Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



202 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Figuring Out Gift Giving in the Age of $2,000-a-Pound Chocolate

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
If you are still seeking the perfect gift for Valentine's Day, have you considered a box of Noka chocolates?
 Both you and the recipient may be in for a surprise. A 12-piece box costs $39 before tax and shipping. And for that you will get 0.9 ounce of chocolate. Not 0.9 ounce a piece, but 0.9 ounce in the entire black and silver box.
Do the math and that comes to $693 a pound. Buy just four pieces in the Signature stainless steel box and you are paying more than $2,000 a pound, making the Noka chocolate more expensive than delicacies like caviar, saffron or black truffles.
 How can anyone justify paying that much for a gift? Economists have struggled over that question for years, suggesting that anything other than a cash gift is inefficient. 
 But the high-end sector in retail is red-hot, whether it's superpremium vodka, tequila, blue jeans or chocolate. The luxury goods market, which exists by convincing people they are getting higher quality or higher status by paying a premium, was stronger in the last holiday shopping season than that for more prosaic products.
 And while cash cards have proved popular during Christmas, a gift card, even one festooned with red hearts, does not quite seem appropriate for this romantic occasion. 
 The question of how much of a premium is reasonable in gift-giving recently nagged at a blogger who writes about local food at the DallasFood.org site. In a 10-part series that can only be called investigative blogging, he tried to justify Noka's price. He analyzed the marketing of the chocolate with lawyerlike logic and came to the conclusion there was little special about it. He noted that the company, just as other chocolatiers do, buys bulk chocolate, called couverture, from chocolate makers, who process the cacao. But while truffle makers like Michael Recchiuti or Michel Cluizel charge a mere $80 or $85 a pound for their treats, the markup for Noka could be as much as 50 times the wholesale cost of the couverture, the blogger estimated. 
 Through taste-testing and some deduction, he guessed that the source of the Noka chocolate is Bonnat, a French chocolate maker. A consumer can also find a Bonnat chocolate bar in stores for about $7.50, or $34 a pound. (Noka is hardly the most expensive chocolate. A Forbes.com survey gave that honor to a shop in Norwalk, Conn., Chocopologie by Knipschildt Chocolatier, for its slightly more pricey $2,600-a-pound bonbons that have unusual ingredients like pink peppercorns or crystallized violets.) 
 Heavily trafficked sites like BoingBoing.net, Chowhound.com and Slashdotorg publicized the expose on the little-known DallasFood blog. The report has had 750,000 page views since the story went up in December and has been passed from chocophile to chocophile. A clerk at Fog City News, a San Francisco magazine and chocolate store, laughed when asked if she carried Noka chocolates. ''Haven't you read the posting about that on DallasFood.org?'' she asked. 
 Katrina Merrem and her husband, Noah Houghton, who started Noka three years ago in their Dallas-area apartment, took umbrage at the attack. They will not reveal the source of their chocolate, though most chocolatiers brag about that. Mr. Houghton said, ''The couverture is made specially for us.''
 The couple, both former accountants, do not add flavorings to their chocolates, which are identified by the country of origin and which, they say, each come from a single estate. ''Our focus is on the pure natural flavor of the cacao,'' Mr. Houghton said. In other words, it is pretty much the chocolate they get from the wholesaler, just molded into little pieces.
 He said the product's value was also in the ''total gifting experience'' with brushed stainless steel boxes available at Neiman Marcus stores and a distinctive logo that belies the company's origins in a one-bedroom apartment in Plano, Tex. 
 Like the premium ice cream Haagen-Dazs (created in the Bronx), which sounded foreign and expensive, the Noka logo has exotic typography: capital N, small o (with a macron over it), capital K, capital A in a meshing of the owners' first names. ''On the gift end, no one was really doing justice to the gifting experience,'' Mr. Houghton said. 
 To succeed in the luxury good market, he said, ''the value people are getting must be there.'' 
 DallasFood.org saw it differently. ''If you or your gift recipient are rich, stupid and vain, Noka is probably the way to go,'' it said.
 But not so fast. There might be some rationale here for springing for at least something more than the Whitman sampler at Walgreens. Most economists would say that giving gifts, other than cash, makes no economic sense. The recipient would be better off spending the money on something he or she values. 
 Joel Waldfogel, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, gained considerable attention from his 1993 paper in The American Economic Review titled ''The Deadweight Loss of Christmas.'' He argued that people valued a gift as much as a third less than if they had been given the same amount of cash to spend on themselves.
 He shed some light on why people give extravagant gifts. ''It's like food stamps,'' Mr. Waldfogel said, because the government antipoverty program is intended to get people to buy food, which they might choose not to do if given cash. 
 A luxury gift is similar, he said. ''Suppose it is something they wouldn't buy for themselves,'' Mr. Waldfogel said. ''You are forcing them to consume something luxurious. You are saying: 'I don't care what you want. This is what I want you to have.' ''
 There could, however, be some value in giving an expensive gift. Bradley J. Ruffle, an economics professor at Ben-Gurion University in Israel, said gifts were a way to establish a relationship. The economic term is ''signaling,'' jargon for showing a person that you care at a very high cost to yourself. ''Giving a diamond ring when you are getting engaged is a similarly extravagant and wasteful gift,'' he said. But it signals serious intent. 
 In some American Indian tribes, a ceremony to initiate relations with another tribe included the burning of the tribe's most valuable possession, Mr. Ruffle said. ''Why? It's a signal that you'd go to the extreme cost to maintain the relationship.'' 
 In short, what an expensive gift really shows is that the giver and recipient do not know each other all that well. The gift is an attempt to convey the information: ''Hey, I'm O.K.'' It is a time-saving way to establish a relationship without going through the drawn-out process of a series of thoughtful gestures. 
 There may be other benefits, said Mr. Ruffle, who studies economic puzzlers like gift giving and religious belief. A gift carries with it emotional costs and benefits. The recipient has an expectation of what the giver will deliver. If the gift fails to exceed expectations, then the recipient is at an emotional loss, as the giver could be. And there could be other consequences like a certain chill in the air. But if the gift is well received, the giver can take pride in that and win an emotional benefit. 
 Gifts can also save the recipient time, another benefit. If the recipient cannot get to a place selling a desired product or has not done the necessary research to know what product to buy, a gift saves that person time. Mr. Ruffle, for instance, buys unique dolls for his niece back in Canada during travels around the world and would consider buying a high-tech device for his technophobe mother that would make her life easier.
 ''It is still wasteful,'' Mr. Ruffle said. But it might make you feel less guilty about splurging for the roses, a bottle of port or a dinner out. FOLLOW-UP: Tax season is a good time to buy a shredder because the office supply retailers discount them to lure customers into their stores.
 You do not need a model that chops paper into the tiniest of confetti. A machine that simply shreds and crosscuts will do the trick. It is better to look for a machine that shreds multiple sheets of paper and is not too top-heavy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Noka chocolates, like these truffles, can be more expensive than caviar. (Photo by Brian Harkin for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Noah Houghton and his wife, Katrina Merrem, started Noka in a one-bedroom apartment in Plano, Tex. The Sky Collection, left, sells for $1,023. (Photographs by Brian Harkin for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%) Gifts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Chocolate

COMPANY: FORBES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Noka (Co)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



203 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Vehicles Crossing The Pond

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
American auto companies have long talked globally but acted locally.
 Though they have operations in every corner of the globe, General Motors and the Ford Motor Company have practiced a certain nationalism within the United States borders, building and selling cars here that would look out of place on European or Asian roads. At the same time, cars built and sold overseas generally never made it to these shores.
But that is changing. At the Chicago Auto Show this week, G.M. showed off two new Saturn models, the Astra compact and the next generation of its Saturn Vue, a crossover vehicle, based on vehicles sold under the Opel brand in Europe. 
 It also displayed a concept vehicle, the Pontiac G8, a powerful sedan whose underpinnings come from the Holden Commodore, a big car sold by G.M.'s Australian division. 
 Ford may pluck up to three models from its European lineup: a crossover vehicle called the S-Max, the Transit van and the Mondeo sedan. The first of them could reach American dealers in less than three years, news reports and industry analysts said this week.
 Chrysler, which plans to unveil a revamping plan next week, is studying whether to base some future vehicles on automobiles made by its corporate sibling, Mercedes-Benz. Many industry experts say such a cost-saving measure is long overdue.
 Auto executives said there were two reasons for the global push: necessity and the shifting tastes of customers.
 Borrowing from global operations saves money and time, said Troy A. Clarke, president of G.M.'s North American operations. Saturn, long starved for new vehicles beyond its original small cars, has had a top-to-bottom makeover in just 20 months, a remarkably quick time for an industry that can take years to retool its lineups. 
 ''We saved the brand by providing it with products'' from Europe, Mr. Clarke said in an interview this week.
 Likewise, G.M. could not have afforded to develop a rear-wheel-drive big sedan like the G8 just for Pontiac, said Robert A. Lutz, G.M. vice chairman. 
 In the past, each of its four global operations would have brought cars to life on their own, like four eggs in separate frying pans that never connected, Mr. Lutz said.
 Now, by sharing vehicle underpinnings among its global regions, ''we have created an omelet,'' he said.
 James Press, president of Toyota Motor North America, said the actions made sense, given that G.M. is pushing to cut billions of dollars in costs after a $10.6 billion loss in 2005.
 ''I can understand the strategy given the resources they are dealing with,'' Mr. Press said this week. ''If they have product that can be adapted, it's a solution.''
 Just as important, consumers appear ready -- even eager -- for cars with foreign pedigrees. In January, import brands took a record 49.4 percent of American auto sales, with Asian companies alone holding 42 percent, according to Autodata of Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
 Given that consumers are comfortable buying foreign nameplates, foreign models from American companies seem logical, said Wesley Brown, an industry analyst with Iceology, a marketing research firm in Los Angeles.
 ''As younger generations take over the market, they don't need vehicles specifically tuned for them or designed for this marketplace,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 The idea is particularly apt for Saturn, which has marketed itself to import owners since it began selling small cars in 1990. Potential buyers are already shopping for Toyotas and Hondas, so for them, Opels are not a stretch, Mr. Clarke said. 
 Yet, the approach can be risky, as Mr. Lutz learned firsthand during the 1980s. When he was running Ford of Europe, Mr. Lutz participated in the company's effort to ship European models to the United States under the Merkur brand.
 One was the Merkur XR4Ti, based on the Sierra XR4i (the T in the American model stood for its turbo-charged engine.) Sales peaked at 14,315 in 1986, well below what Ford had hoped. 
 Some critics complained that the car looked too much like a version of the small Escort, while Mr. Lutz was displeased with an advertising campaign that promoted the car as a ''Bavarian Scream'' even thought it was built elsewhere in Germany. 
 ''Everything was botched on that thing except the product itself,'' Mr. Lutz said.
 G.M. has had its own problems with another import, the Pontiac G.T.O., also built for it by Holden. Introduced in 2003, its looks failed to satisfy purists who wanted G.M. to introduce a replica of the 1960s pony car, and it lacked the modern oomph it needed to attract new owners. G.T.O.'s best year came in 2004, when G.M. sold 13,589. 
 ''The styling was bland,'' said Mark Phelan, an automotive critic for The Detroit Free Press.
 Mr. Clarke of G.M. is not ready to count the G.T.O. a failure. But he said: ''We had a lot of learning; I don't know if we planned it that way.''
 Indeed, the industry is ''littered with examples'' of attempts to bring over cars ill suited to the American market, said Mark Fields, president of Ford's operations for the Americas.
 Ford has not yet revealed its plans for its European models. But its new chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, who joined the automaker last September from the Boeing Company, has emphasized his desire to leverage the company's lineup around the world.
 ''One of our strategic initiatives is to accelerate product development and truly act as a global company,'' Mr. Fields said Wednesday.
 Its Japanese competitors have long been doing so. Last year, Toyota, Honda and Nissan each introduced small cars in the United States that they sold in other markets. The Nissan Versa is based on the Tida, which Nissan sells in Europe and Japan.
 Nissan decided to sell Versa here for two reasons, said Larry Dominique, vice president for product planning. It wanted to take the next generation of its small Sentra up a notch in price and size, and needed to fill the hole in its lineup that such a move created. With gasoline prices spiking, it thought Americans would want an economical car.
 Mr. Dominique said car companies must be careful when importing cars that were not originally designed for American buyers. ''They look at the market and say, 'We can make it fit,' '' he said in an interview.
 He added, however: ''You can't say that American tastes and European tastes and Japanese tastes are the same. They aren't. You have to meet the needs in each market.''
 Yet true imports can help meet American needs, as Toyota is proving with its Scion division. Aimed at the industry's youngest and hippest buyers, Scion started out in 2003 with cars that Toyota sold in Japan.
 One model, the boxy xB van, is still based on a Japanese design, the BB. But the xD hatchback, which Toyota introduced in Chicago this week, is based on a European Toyota, the Yaris, which is now also sold in the United States. The third Scion model, the tC coupe, is sold only in the United States.
 Mr. Press of Toyota said automakers could think globally about their vehicles, as long as they also thought locally about their buyers. ''Whenever you do a global product, you just have to remember that there are details that have to fit,'' he said. 
 G.M. is paying close attention to the details on the G8. Aimed at fulfilling Pontiac's pledge to emphasize performance, the G8 will be available with a 261 horsepower 3.6-liter V-6 engine or a 362-horsepower 6.0-liter V-8 -- two big engines that might be at home only under the hood of an American sedan.
 Mr. Lutz, clearly pleased at the result, is seeing his goal of creating a global lineup take shape. Fromnow on, G.M. will focus on developing small cars in Asia and midsize cars in Europe. That will leave American engineers with the responsibility for sport utilities, pickups and sports cars.
 In fact, one of those sports cars, the Opel GT, is being built in Delaware alongside its sister car, the Saturn Sky, and exported to Europe. 
 By sharing its vehicles across its global boundaries, ''We can now make a lot of things work that we couldn't do before,'' Mr. Lutz said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Saturn Sky is built in Delaware. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); SATURN CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



204 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Business Declines, and Stakes Rise

BYLINE: By STEVE FRIESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Donna Washington loves riding the Las Vegas Monorail, but not for a reason that would cheer its owners.
 ''In my town, the trains are always jam-packed, so it's nice to have a train car to myself here,'' said Ms. Washington, 44, a Chicagoan vacationing here. ''I do wonder, though, where all the people are.''
The company behind the monorail, one of the few privately owned public transit systems in the nation, needs to figure that out soon. When it made its debut in 2004, the sleek $650 million train was to be the envy of the nation: a high-tech public transit system, paid for without taxpayer money, that would be so popular it could turn a profit.
 But two and a half years later, ridership numbers for the Disney-inspired system, which stops at nine hotel-casinos and the Las Vegas Convention Center, are falling amid a lackluster marketing campaign, technical problems and revenues so far below projections that Wall Street fears that a default on its bonds could occur by the end of the decade. 
 The Las Vegas Monorail Company's proposed cure -- a privately financed $500 million four-mile extension to McCarran International Airport by 2011 -- is seen by many as a risky move. In December, the Clark County Commission granted preliminary approval for such an extension, but observers question how the company can finance it given that two major bond-analyst firms, Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service, dropped the monorail's bond rating last year to highly speculative, or ''junk,'' status.
 ''It is inherently preposterous to make this system work,'' said Jon Twitchell, a transportation consultant in San Francisco who fought construction of the original monorail on behalf of a consortium of opponents, including nonparticipating casino-resorts and homeowners along the route. ''Transit has not paid for itself in this country since 1945. It is always publicly subsidized. Eventually, the public will end up paying to prop this up.''
 That has not happened so far, but the latest numbers are bleak. December was the monorail's worst month, with 18,197 riders per day, far below the 53,000 predicted by studies used to sell the bonds to investors and to persuade public officials to give up public right of way. Despite a management shakeup in mid-2005 that purged the company of its founding executives, the system's average ridership plunged 31 percent in 2006, to 19,219 per day.
 The company's new chief executive, Curtis L. Myles III, said that drop was somewhat anticipated after fares were raised in December 2005 to $5 a ride from $3. That move increased revenues by 4 percent, to $31.4 million for the year, still far short of the $44.9 million needed to break even. The total cost of the system per year is about $61 million; the monorail receives about $16 million in advertising revenues from companies like Sprint, which is about to start providing wireless Internet access on the trains and has a 15,000-square-foot store at the convention center stop.
 Mr. Myles acknowledged in an interview that the company's cash reserves, estimated by Fitch at about $89 million, would run dry by 2010 if revenues did not improve. To break even, he said, the monorail would need to increase ridership by about 50 percent.
 Critics fear that if the monorail goes bankrupt, the public will be forced to pay to run a system that exists to shuttle casino patrons, not local residents. Mr. Twitchell and others warned of such an outcome from the start, but Mr. Myles insisted the bondholders would merely sell off the assets to cover the debt and that there was a fund set aside to demolish the tracks.
 All this is grim talk for a monorail that opened in July 2004 with a lavish party that included huge buffets at all stops and the governor's taking the inaugural ride flanked by navel-baring showgirls, a Prince impersonator and the comic Rita Rudner.
 The technical problems started almost immediately. The following month, passengers were frightened when a technician opened the doors on the wrong side of the elevated tracks; a month later, pieces fell off the trains twice. No one was injured, but the system was shut down for 14 weeks. It has operated largely trouble-free since that reopening.
 Still, Mr. Myles said, the monorail took a public relations hit.
 ''Whenever you open a new business, especially something in Las Vegas that's tourism related, you expect a bump in ridership to come from the fact that it's new,'' he said, ''but they had to shut it down for three months.'' 
 Expected ticket-selling partnerships with some resorts on the route did not materialize, Mr. Myles said, nor did a plan to make it possible for hotel guests to charge monorail fares to their rooms.
 ''If the monorail executives have ideas that they want to bring to the hotel community, then they ought to,'' said Alan M. Feldman, spokesman for the MGM Grand casino-hotel where the system originates. ''At the same time, the hotel's job in terms of marketing isn't to sell monorail tickets.''
 Others say the monorail's design is problematic because it bypasses several resorts, including Bellagio, Mirage, Caesars Palace, Venetian and Wynn Las Vegas, the last two because neither would spend the millions required to build a station and connecting halls. 
 ''We've been here three days, and we just found out about the train,'' said Michael New, 26, of Sydney, Australia, riding it with his girlfriend, Julie Tanswell, 25. ''We knew it was here, but we could never find it, and everyone we talked to told us to take the bus.''
 Mr. Myles said the coming marketing efforts would raise ridership in the short term to keep the company from defaulting on the debt before the airport extension was built.
 But even those who agree that the airport link may help foresee problems.
 ''The only way the monorail could ever be a success is if it went to the airport,'' said Steve Sebelius, a Las Vegas blogger and editor of the weekly newspaper CityLife who has attacked the monorail since its inception, ''but who's going to buy these bonds when they're totally private, subject to default and the performance of the train is so poor?'' 
 The monorail could face more financial headaches this spring as the Nevada Tax Commission reviews its sales tax exemption to the system on the grounds that it was performing a public service. One commissioner, George Kelesis, said the system offered no discounts for students or people who are disabled.
 ''Why should they be exempted from the taxes?'' Mr. Kelesis said. ''The purpose of the monorail is to benefit eight casinos.''
 But Mr. Myles said that Nevadans who showed state identification could ride the train for $1 and that even at its current ridership levels, the system was relieving traffic congestion.
 ''This company is providing 20,000 transit trips a day in the resort corridor,'' Mr. Myles said. ''If it wasn't here, those trips would be taking place on the streets.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Las Vegas Monorail Company is hoping that building a four-mile extension to McCarran International Airport will increase ridership, but critics wonder how the company will be able finance such a project.
 A lone passenger waited for the Las Vegas Monorail recently at the MGM Grand station. Ridership fell 31 percent in 2006. (Photographs by Isaac Brekken for The New York Times)Map of Las Vegas highlights the monorail route and its nine stops: The monorail stops at nine casinos and the convention center. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (53%) Transit Systems; Monorails; Hotels and Motels; Casinos; Las Vegas Convention Center; Defaulting; Mccarren International Airport (Las Vegas, Nev); Transit Systems

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Las Vegas Monorail Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: Steve Friess

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%) NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



205 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Mobil Just Wants To Be Loved

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Late last week, Exxon Mobil announced that it had made an astonishing $39.5 billion in 2006. No company in history, not Microsoft, not Wal-Mart, has ever come close to making the kind of annual profit that this 134-year-old oil giant generated last year.
 So how do you like them apples?
Wall Street, of course, liked them just fine. ''Exxon Mobil continues to execute exceptionally well in just about all facets of its business,'' wrote Arjun N. Murti of Goldman Sachs in a note to clients after the earnings report came out. ''The company's strong performance is in sharp contrast to almost all of its so-called super major peers.'' 
 Fadel Gheit, the oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, said, ''They have inherent efficiencies no other company can touch.'' 
 Exxon Mobil is the only major oil company to consistently replace its production over the last decade. It is the most technologically advanced energy producer, and the most disciplined. It has a far better safety record than, say, BP. It is unafraid to search for oil in the toughest spots on earth. You get the picture.
 It is also a company that is unapologetically geared toward generating returns for its shareholders. Last year, Exxon Mobil spent almost $20 billion on capital expenditures -- and almost $30 billion buying back its own stock, which helped bolster its stock price by more than 30 percent in 2006. It runs its finance department with the same rigor that it runs its offshore rigs. ''Exxon Mobil,'' Mr. Gheit said, ''is the gold standard of the industry.''
 So why then, when I spent some time with a few Exxon Mobil executives this week, did they sound so defensive? So beleaguered? So misunderstood?
 Oh, right. It's that global warming thing.
 Whenever gasoline prices are high, as they have been this last year or so, oil company profits generate enormous suspicion and ire, as people inevitably assume they are being ripped off by the oil companies. (Never mind that oil is a commodity and that the companies have about as much to do with setting the price of oil as farmers do with setting the price of corn.) Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, a ranking member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, summed up the sentiments of many when he told me that ''with oil at $70 a barrel, those are definitely windfall profits.'' He complained, as many do, that oil companies aren't spending nearly enough of their profits on alternative energy sources. 
 But even amid the general discontent over oil company profits, Exxon Mobil stands out as a special case. In recent times, it has managed to turn itself into a Wal-Mart-size target for the environmental set: the energy company all right-thinking people love to hate. On the Internet you'll find sites like exxonsecrets.org, which is maintained by Greenpeace, and takes as its premise the notion that Exxon Mobil is at the heart of a vast conspiracy to sow doubt about global warming, and there's Exxpose Exxon, a group set up by a coalition of environmental groups to put pressure on the company. 
 Partly, Exxon Mobil is a target simply because of its size. Partly, it's because many of the very things that Wall Street likes about the company --its relentless focus on finding oil and gas, and the use of its cash to reward shareholders instead of plowing the money into, say, solar power -- drives environmentalists nuts. And partly it is a legacy of the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill.
 But most of all, Exxon Mobil has become the enemy because it has been slow to concede that global warming is a real phenomenon caused largely by human beings burning fossil fuels. Exxon Mobil opposed (and still opposes) the Kyoto accord. It has contributed money to Washington research groups that have cast doubt on the severity of global warming and on the need for taking drastic measures to reverse its effects. It has generally opposed mandatory caps on greenhouse gases. Even as BP and Royal Dutch Shell embraced the notion that the world needed to start doing something to mitigate the effects of global warming, Exxon Mobil held back.
 The language its opponents use is amazingly harsh. Shawnee Hoover, who runs Exxpose Exxon, accused the company of using its might to finance what she called the ''global warming deniers,'' a phrase that seems meant to echo those awful words ''Holocaust deniers.'' The Union of Concerned Scientists has compared Exxon Mobil to the tobacco industry in its efforts to sow ''disinformation'' about the realities of global warming.
 Most recently, Exxon Mobil has been accused of ''bribing'' scientists through one of the organizations it helps finance, the American Enterprise Institute, to cast doubt on the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report. That's the report that made headlines recently by saying there was a 90 percent certainty that human activities had been the main cause of global warming.
 Some of the accusations hurled at Exxon Mobil are ridiculous -- the ''bribery'' allegation turned out to be an effort by two American Enterprise Institute scholars to solicit articles from a range of global warming experts for a book they were putting together. They were paying $10,000 an article. (And Exxon Mobil, which contributes a minuscule portion of the group's budget, knew nothing about the book until the accusations showed up in the papers.)
 Some of Exxon Mobil's arguments are, at the very least, defensible. For instance, it takes the view that over the next few decades, oil, gas and coal will still be the primary means of generating energy -- and thus its focus on searching for oil and gas makes sense for the country and the world. It also argues that using fossil fuels more efficiently is more sensible, in the short term, than investing in wind power.
 But it has done a bunch of really dumb things, for example, financing groups like the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which a few years ago (after Exxon stopped financing it) ran ads promoting the wonders of carbon dioxide. Lee Raymond, Exxon Mobil's crusty former chief executive, used to scoff openly at environmentalists and alternative-energy efforts -- and yes, even cast doubt on global warming. He almost seemed to enjoy being a foil for the other side.
 But early last year, Mr. Raymond retired, and Exxon Mobil's new chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, is a kinder gentler sort. And with the broad scientific consensus on global warming -- and the near certainty that the United States will soon be imposing some form of regulation on greenhouse gases -- Exxon Mobil is finally trying to change its tune. At last month's World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Mr. Tillerson said during one of the 17 (that's right: 17) panels on global warming: ''It is clear that something is going on. It's not useful to debate it any longer.'' 
 What is striking to me, though, is that this same company that is so utterly competent at its core mission -- finding, producing, refining and delivering oil and gas -- is so utterly incompetent when it comes to making the case that it is not the devil incarnate when it comes to the environment.
 I got a whiff of this earlier this week, when Kenneth P. Cohen, Exxon's vice president for public affairs, held a conference call for reporters in an effort to refute those who say that the company is a nonbeliever in global warming. Mr. Cohen has worked at Exxon Mobil for 30 years, which is part of the problem: the place is so insular that its executives have a hard time understanding why everyone doesn't love them.
 But another part of the problem is that Exxon Mobil doesn't want to acknowledge that it has ever been on the wrong side of the issue. When I spoke to him earlier, one on one, Mr. Cohen sounded pretty reasonable. He made the point that the world doesn't really need Exxon Mobil to finance alternative energy efforts because scads of money is being thrown at it, starting with venture capitalists in Silicon Valley. ''Renewable energy efforts are not being held back by a lack of capital,'' he said. 
 He also complained that it was unfair to assume that Exxon Mobil held the puppet strings at the research institutions and other groups it financed. As a general rule, at a place like the American Enterprise Institute, it doesn't.
 But on the conference call, Mr. Cohen's rhetoric turned to mush. He wouldn't say that the company had made a mistake giving money to certain groups, and though he adamantly insisted that the company's position was that human activity was a critical source of global warming -- just as the panel on climate change's report stated -- he wouldn't even concede that that was a change in Exxon Mobil's position.
 When a reporter dug up a 2004 report in which Exxon Mobil cast doubt on the cause of global warming, Mr. Cohen ducked the question. When asked if the company would accept mandatory caps on greenhouse gases, he responded with a firm maybe. And on, and on. By the end I was rolling my eyes.
 As you can surely tell by now, I think there is a lot to admire about Exxon Mobil. For a very long time to come, we're going to need it to do what it does better than any other company. But in the world we live in, that's no longer good enough. Exxon Mobil's insularity has made it a great oil company. But if it doesn't learn to open up and talk more straightforwardly about its beliefs, it will never stop being the Company That Denies Global Warming. And being the world's whipping boy isn't a lot of fun. Just ask Wal-Mart.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Weather; Global Warming

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (92%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (50%) Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



206 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Shut Major North Korean Nuclear Facilities Appears Closer

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
North Korea and the United States appeared on Friday to be inching closer to a deal that would establish a schedule for the North to shut down and seal its main nuclear facilities within two months, in return for shipments of fuel oil from South Korea and the beginning of talks over normalization of relations with Washington.
 But the top American envoy negotiating the deal here cautioned that the two sides remained stuck on ''one or two'' small issues. 
 ''Nothing is agreed unless everything is agreed,'' the envoy, Christopher R. Hill, an assistant secretary of state, told reporters as he returned to his hotel Friday night. ''So I just want to be careful about predicting success tomorrow.''
 But in Washington, officials at the White House and the State Department were preparing for a major announcement this weekend, and described the agreement as very different from the nuclear freeze that the Clinton administration negotiated in 1994. That agreement ultimately fell apart, and the North has produced enough fuel for more than half a dozen nuclear weapons during President Bush's term.
 ''This is the Libya model,'' said one senior administration official, referring to Libya's decision in late 2003 to turn over all of the equipment it had purchased from the secret nuclear network run by the Pakistani scientist, Abdul Qadeer Khan, to produce bomb fuel. In that agreement, both the Libyans and the United States executed a series of steps, in a carefully negotiated order, that rid the country of nuclear technology and ended its isolation. 
 It is still unclear exactly what sort of timeline North Korea would agree to, and how quickly it would turn over the plutonium it has produced, along with whatever weapons it may have built. In the past, the Bush administration has said it would never agree to the kind of ''freeze'' that President Clinton signed, because North Korea was not forced to give up its weapons fuel before it reaped rewards. That allowed the country to quickly restart its nuclear program, officials said.
 Administration officials say this agreement would be different, because the biggest benefits for the North would come only after it allowed inspectors, sealed its facilities and began to give up its weapons. But those steps will be difficult to monitor, in part because there is a dispute about how much nuclear material the North possesses. 
 In a second stage of the agreement, the North would be required to declare how much nuclear material it has on hand and where it is located, administration officials say. Presumably, that would include the uranium enrichment program that Mr. Khan has admitted helping the North start a decade ago, but which North Korea has denied. 
 On Friday night, Mr. Hill insisted that North Korea would be required to do more than submit to a ''freeze,'' and also suggested that the process of shutting down the weapons program would be carried out in stages.
 ''We're interested in shutting things down and continuing, through various phases, to shut down, dismantle, abandon things,'' he said. ''Freeze doesn't describe that process. Freeze suggests a process where you freeze, you thaw out, freeze again. We're not interested in that. We're interested in kind of a one-way process.''
 Mr. Hill said he remained ''cautiously optimistic'' and declined to specify which issues were delaying an agreement, though he suggested that North Korea had unexpectedly stalled on minor details. Negotiations resume Saturday, and Mr. Hill said he still hoped that a deal could be struck by the end of the weekend.
 The latest negotiations over North Korea's nuclear weapons program began Thursday in Beijing amid tempered optimism that a breakthrough, if a modest one, might be at hand. North Korea and the United States -- the key players in talks that also include China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- held fruitful private meetings last month in Berlin. 
 Mr. Hill and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Kye-gwan, have met privately more than once this week, including for lunch on Friday. Mr. Kim has told reporters that North Korea is ''ready to make its first step'' toward denuclearization.
 The starting point in the talks is a broad accord signed in September 2005, in which North Korea agreed in principle to end its nuclear weapons program in exchange for a package of economic and energy aid, as well as security guarantees. 
 Subsequent negotiations stalled over the contested details of how and when the accord would be carried out. 
 This week, though, a rough initial timeline has emerged. Russian, South Korean and Japanese news agencies have reported that a draft proposal circulated by China this week would require North Korea to stop operations at its nuclear reactors and procession facilities within two months in exchange for initial shipments of aid, including energy supplies such as heavy oil. 
 None of the negotiators have spoken publicly about the specifics of the proposal, but Mr. Hill confirmed that it would require ''both sides'' to take ''initial actions'' within weeks. Such a deal would constitute only a first phase of an overall denuclearization plan, and Mr. Hill suggested that more rounds of negotiations could be held in March and April.
 The paramount goal of the talks is eliminating North Korea's nuclear weapons program, but the negotiations have been complicated by a host of related issues.
 Mr. Hill said the proposed draft would also create five working groups to negotiate separate issues. Analysts say these are likely to include denuclearization, financial sanctions and normalizing diplomatic relations between North Korea and the United States and Japan. 
 The United States infuriated the North Koreans when it froze $24 million of their country's assets and accused them of laundering counterfeit dollars. North Korea has demanded that the money be released, and financial negotiators from both countries met last week in Beijing. No deal was announced, and some analysts have questioned whether a stalemate could sink a larger denuclearization deal.
 But Mr. Hill said the money dispute was not one of the sticking points holding up the current deal. ''When I talk about one or two issues,'' he said of the unresolved problems, ''that is not one of them.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The chief North Korean negotiator to the six-nation nuclear talks, Kim Kye-gwan, right, was greeted by Deputy Foreign Minister Dai Bingguo of China as Mr. Kim arrived at a banquet yesterday in Beijing. (Pool photo by Andrew Wong) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Jim Yardley; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%) North Korea; China; Beijing (China); South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



207 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Paycheck? Don't Look to the Internet

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE Internet is the wave of the future, the technology that changes everything.
 Just don't try to get a job in it.
The United States government has released new employment numbers for the last several years, showing there were 933,000 more jobs than previously thought. A handful of them -- 6,300, to be exact -- were in Internet companies, including publishing and broadcasting. But that did not alter the trend. 
 The charts show the gains, or losses, in jobs in the six years since President Bush took office. Over all, there were 4.8 million more jobs in January than in January 2001. That is a 3.6 percent gain.
 The increase is smaller than in previous administrations, but it came at a time that unemployment was already low and the labor force was not expanding as rapidly as in the past.
 One chart shows the combined categories of publishing and broadcasting, both traditional and Internet-based. Over all, employment is down 11 percent. In those six years, employment in traditional paper-based publishing is down 13 percent. Broadcasting employment is off 3 percent. The traditional industries, between them, have shed 148,000 workers.
 Did the Internet make up the difference? Just the opposite. Internet publishing and broadcasting now employs 36,600 people, and that figure is down 29 percent from six years ago.
 A larger Internet-related area covers Internet service providers, search portals and data processing. It now has 385,000 workers, down 25 percent over the last six years.
 The places to look for jobs in Mr. Bush's six years have been less in line with the new economy, although the category of business and technical consulting -- an area that has included many of those proclaiming the Internet to be the future -- has done very well. It is up 29 percent since the inauguration of the first president with a master's degree in business administration.
 That increase is even more than the gain for residential construction, which is up 28 percent, although that sector has slipped 2 percent since peaking last March. History indicates it could get worse. From a 1988 peak to a post-recession low in 1992, employment in residential construction fell 28 percent.
 Nonresidential construction has been growing at a good pace for the last couple of years, but for the entire Bush administration it has grown less than the economy as a whole.
 The long-term decline of manufacturing has accelerated in the Bush administration. It took more than two decades, after the peak in 1979, for the United States to shed almost 2.5 million jobs. In the last six years, almost 3 million more have gone. Still, with 14.1 million jobs, manufacturing employs more people than either health care or education, two areas that have grown rapidly in recent years.

GRAPHIC: GraphSix years after President Bush took office, the number of jobs in the United States has risen 4.8 million, or 3.6 percent. But there have also been major shifts in the types of jobs available. Some sectors have grown, but others have lagged.Where the Jobs AreCharts show the change in the number of jobs in each sector since January 2001, when President Bush took office
 bars show the relative size of each sector in January 2007.RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: 3.3 Million jobsMANAGEMENT CONSULTING: 1.0OIL AND GAS EXTRACTION: 0.1HEALTH CARE: 4.5EDUCATION: 13.3FINANCIAL SERVICES: 8.4Some Sectors Have LaggedNON RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: 3.4MANUFACTURING: 17.2GASOLINE STATIONS: 0.9MOTOR VEHICLE PRODUCTION: 1.0PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING: 1.3TELECOMMUNICATIONS: 1.0Note: Figures are seasonally adjusted and show changes from January 2001. Education includes employees in the private sector as well as state and local government employees. Other areas exclude government employees. Broadcasting and publishing includes Internet and non-Internet activities. Construction figures include specialty contractors.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (85%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (85%); CONSTRUCTION (85%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (61%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Computers and the Internet; Television; Radio; Housing; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Floyd Norris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



208 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: China's Influence in Africa Arouses Some Resistance

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
China is often depicted as a juggernaut of sorts, its untroubled and unfettered rise into the ranks of global powers a fact that lesser nations can only watch with awe and trepidation. On Friday, President Hu Jintao of China completed a 12-day tour of Africa that suggested the reality was more nuanced.
 More than that, the visit tested a basic tenet of China's economic relations: that business is business, and what a partner nation's people think about it is not China's -- or the world's -- preoccupation. 
Mr. Hu swept through eight nations, among them some of China's closest African allies, largest trading partners and most prominent objects of Chinese investment. He left behind a multibillion-dollar trail of forgiven debts, cheap new loans and pledges of schools and cultural centers, tokens of affection for a continent of strategic economic importance to Beijing's future.
 Yet in Zambia, Mr. Hu was greeted with public disdain, and forced to cancel one appearance, even as he showered more than $800 million in gifts and investments on the nation, one of the world's poorest. In Namibia, a decades-old ally, a newspaper and human rights activists assailed China's foreign policy as selfish and lacking morality. 
 In South Africa, a generally warm visit was clouded by President Thabo Mbeki's recent warning that Africa risked becoming an economic colony of China, and by Johannesburg's major newspaper, which devoted a full page this week to a scalding critique of China's record on human rights and labor rights.
 Mr. Hu's stop in Sudan, where China has extensive oil interests, reignited criticism that Beijing has helped shield its ally and oil supplier from global outrage over attacks on civilians in Darfur. 
 Mr. Hu also met his share of flag-waving supporters, of course, and the official parts of his trip -- the meetings and agreement-signings with heads of state -- were a diplomatic and commercial success. Most African heads of state like China, which supported many of their liberation movements when liberation was not fashionable. And they like Mr. Hu, whose views on sovereignty, human rights and development are frequently closer to theirs than are those of Western governments.
 But an undercurrent of disquiet accompanied Mr. Hu's barnstorming. Mostly, it came not from heads of state, but from the people they rule, some of whom resent China's growing influence here -- for economic, racial and ideological reasons.
 ''It's important to note the obstacles the Chinese are running into'' in Africa, said Bates Gill, a leading China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''It has a lot to do with their unfamiliarity with working in countries that have a vibrant private sector and civil society. These guys in the Chinese Embassy, they don't understand that.''
 China is not yet an overwhelming presence in Africa. The juggernaut image aside, China imports less African oil, invests less money and spends less on aid than does the United States or Europe. As an African trading partner, China ranks third, behind the United States and France, and much of that trade is in oil purchased from Sudan, Angola and Nigeria, not in goods made by African workers.
 Unlike most other nations, however, China is frequently seen here as coveting Africa for its oil, gold and other valuable minerals and as a dumping ground for cheap Chinese goods -- not for its people or talents. Mr. Mbeki said as much in December, warning in a speech that Africa's relationship to China as an exporter of ore and oil and importer of finished goods threatened to become ''a replication of that colonial relationship'' between Europe and its African possessions a century ago. 
 True or not, the perception has been telling. In Zimbabwe, Zambia and elsewhere in southern Africa, an influx of Chinese shopkeepers and street traders has pushed locals into bankruptcy. South African textile workers lost tens of thousands of jobs after the 2005 expiration of a global trade agreement allowed cheaper Chinese goods -- including knockoffs of traditional African prints -- to flood the country. Angry trade unions called for retaliatory boycotts of shops selling Chinese goods. 
 Anti-Chinese sentiment has mushroomed in Zambia since 2005, when an explosion at a Chinese-owned copper mine killed at least 46 workers and spawned complaints of unsafe working conditions and poor environmental practices. In last year's presidential election, the populist challenger to President Levy Mwanawasa based part of his campaign on a pledge to curb Chinese influence in the country.
 This month, Mr. Hu canceled a visit to Zambia's Copperbelt Province, in the nation's north, apparently because of the threat of protests.
 For some foreign powers in Africa, such snubs are part of the territory; both the United States and Europe are regularly assailed for agriculture policies that are said to stunt African farm exports. One reason China has been welcomed into Africa, analysts say, is it can serve as a counterbalance to American influence now that the Soviet Union has vanished from the scene and Russia is far less active in the region.
 But while popular dissent is old hat to Westerners, it is less so to the Chinese, for whom foreign relations and domestic policies alike are shaped by governments -- not activists, lobbies or public opinion.
 Having claimed a bigger role on the African and world stages , Mr. Hu is now reaping the first bitter fruits of pretension to leadership. One test comes in Sudan, where he must reconcile China's doctrine of noninterference in other nations' affairs with the outcry over the killings of civilians in Darfur. In Khartoum, he gave Sudan a $13 million interest-free loan to build a new presidential palace, but also said it was ''imperative'' to halt the deaths in Darfur. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (87%); TRENDS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); THABO MBEKI (57%) Michael Wines; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (96%); AFRICA (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SUDAN (92%); NAMIBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ZAMBIA (79%) Africa; China

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



209 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: California Split

BYLINE: By Gar Alperovitz. 
Gar Alperovitz, a professor of political economy at the University of Maryland, College Park, is the author of ''America Beyond Capitalism.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SOMETHING interesting is happening in California. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger seems to have grasped the essential truth that no nation -- not even the United States -- can be managed successfully from the center once it reaches a certain scale. Moreover, the bold proposals that Mr. Schwarzenegger is now making for everything from universal health care to global warming point to the kind of decentralization of power which, once started, could easily shake up America's fundamental political structure.
 Governor Schwarzenegger is quite clear that California is not simply another state. ''We are the modern equivalent of the ancient city-states of Athens and Sparta,'' he recently declared. ''We have the economic strength, we have the population and the technological force of a nation-state.'' In his inaugural address, Mr. Schwarzenegger proclaimed, ''We are a good and global commonwealth.'' 
Political rhetoric? Maybe. But California's governor has also put his finger on a little discussed flaw in America's constitutional formula. The United States is almost certainly too big to be a meaningful democracy. What does ''participatory democracy'' mean in a continent? Sooner or later, a profound, probably regional, decentralization of the federal system may be all but inevitable.
 A recent study by the economists Alberto Alesina of Harvard and Enrico Spolaore of Tufts demonstrates that the bigger the nation, the harder it becomes for the government to meet the needs of its dispersed population. Regions that don't feel well served by the government's distribution of goods and services then have an incentive to take independent action, the economists note. 
 Scale also determines who has privileged access to the country's news media and who can shape its political discourse. In very large nations, television and other forms of political communication are extremely costly. President Bush alone spent $345 million in his 2004 election campaign. This gives added leverage to elites, who have better corporate connections and greater resources than non-elites. The priorities of those elites often differ from state and regional priorities. 
 James Madison, the architect of the United States Constitution, understood these problems all too well. Madison is usually viewed as favoring constructing the nation on a large scale. What he urged, in fact, was that a nation of reasonable size had advantages over a very small one. But writing to Jefferson at a time when the population of the United States was a mere four million, Madison expressed concern that if the nation grew too big, elites at the center would divide and conquer a widely dispersed population, producing ''tyranny.'' 
 Few Americans realize just how huge this nation is. Germany could fit within the borders of Montana. France is smaller than Texas. Leaving aside three nations with large, unpopulated land masses (Russia, Canada and Australia), the United States is geographically larger than all the other advanced industrial countries taken together. Critically, the American population, now roughly 300 million, is projected to reach more than 400 million by the middle of this century. A high Census Bureau estimate suggests it could reach 1.2 billion by 2100. 
 If the scale of a country renders it unmanageable, there are two possible responses. One is a breakup of the nation; the other is a radical decentralization of power. More than half of the world's 200 nations formed as breakaways after 1946. These days, many nations -- including Brazil, Britain, Canada, China, France, Italy and Spain, just to name a few -- are devolving power to regions in various ways. 
 Decades before President Bush decided to teach Iraq a lesson, George F. Kennan worried that what he called our ''monster country'' would, through the ''hubris of inordinate size,'' inevitably become a menace, intervening all too often in other nations' affairs: ''There is a real question as to whether 'bigness' in a body politic is not an evil in itself, quite aside from the policies pursued in its name.'' 
 Kennan proposed that devolution, ''while retaining certain of the rudiments of a federal government,'' might yield a ''dozen constituent republics, absorbing not only the powers of the existing states but a considerable part of those of the present federal establishment.''
 Regional devolution would most likely be initiated by a very large state with a distinct sense of itself and aspirations greater than Washington can handle. The obvious candidate is California, a state that has the eighth-largest economy in the world. 
 If such a state decided to get serious about determining its own fate, other states would have little choice but to act, too. One response might be for an area like New England, which already has many regional interstate arrangements, to follow California's initiative -- as it already has on some environmental measures. And if one or two large regions began to take action, other state groupings in the Northwest, Southwest and elsewhere would be likely to follow. 
 A new wave of regional devolution could also build on the more than 200 compacts that now allow groups of states to cooperate on environmental, economic, transportation and other problems. Most likely, regional empowerment would be popular: when the Appalachian Regional Commission was established in 1965, senators from across the country rushed to demand commissions to help the economies and constituencies of their regions, too. 
 Governor Schwarzenegger may not have thought through the implications of continuing to assert forcefully his ''nation-state'' ambitions. But he appears to have an expansive sense of the possibilities: this is the governor, after all, who brought Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain to the Port of Long Beach last year to sign an accord between California and Britain on global warming. And he may be closer to the mark than he knows with his dream that ''California, the nation-state, the harmonious state, the prosperous state, the cutting-edge state, becomes a model, not just for the 21st-century American society, but for the larger world.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Guy Billout) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Gar Alperovitz; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (76%); GERMANY (50%) California; California

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2007



210 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: An Air Pass That Gives You Asia a la Carte

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
Asia is so far away it seems a shame, once there, not to visit at least a few destinations. 
 Now through May 31, through a Singapore Airlines promotion called the Southeast Asia Air Pass, travelers can fly round trip (economy class) from New York, San Francisco or Los Angeles to Singapore and then add on another three round-trip excursions to any one of the airline's 26 destinations (including Bali, Manila, Bangkok and Da Nang) for a total price of $1,699. For an additional $199, even more side trips can be added. (Fancy a trip to Balikpapan, Surabaya or Langkawi anyone?) 
Even better, those flying out of San Francisco can try the airline's new economy seats on the B777-300 -- they are 19 inches wide, and have a larger, 10.6-inch entertainment monitor, U.S.B. ports, an in-seat power supply and more than 1,000 on-demand entertainment options. And those preferring to upgrade to the executive economy class from Los Angeles or Newark can do so for an extra $400. More details can be found at www.asiaairpasscom.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the In Transit column on Feb. 11, about a Singapore Airlines air pass promotion, gave an incorrect Internet address for information on the program. It is www.asianairpass.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (77%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Singapore Airlines

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: Jennifer Conlin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (89%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (72%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



211 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: DINING IN ANGUILLA

 BODY:
To the Editor: We have visited Anguilla several times and have always enjoyed eating at Dale Carty's fine restaurant, Tasty's, which was mentioned in ''The 10 Point Caribbean Escapes Plan'' by Michelle Higgins (Jan. 28). 
 Although we certainly agree with Ms. Higgins's praise of the cuisine there, we would certainly not consider Tasty's to be ''high-end.''
Mr. Carty has created a casual, friendly spot to enjoy his Anguillan cuisine, decorated in island colors and staffed by warm, friendly and helpful personnel. The restaurant is, by Anguillan standards, very economical (dinner for two with wine costs about $100). Most importantly, Tasty's is very family-friendly. We have taken our two teenage children there, and the kitchen has always been more than willing to modify dishes to suit their tastes.Mark Horowitz and Dorrine Veca Brooklyn, New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); FAMILY (85%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Mark Horowitz; Dorrine Veca; Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) ANGUILLA (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (68%) Anguilla; Caribbean Area

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



212 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-11-07: DOMAINS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: The Restaurant Moguls Retreat

BYLINE: By Edward Lewine

 BODY:
Room that best defines him: I am not a neat person. My wife tries hard to maintain order, but there is this room downstairs where I keep all my stuff, and that room gets pretty chaotic.
Morning routine: I aim to be up at 9 o'clock. I'll come down, have a cup of coffee. I rarely have breakfast. Around 10:30 a.m. I'll get picked up and driven into the city. I don't know how to drive. 
 First daily task: Unfortunately, people start calling me right after 10 a.m. for reservations and recommendations about where to eat. It's a little-known fact, but to some people I am a concierge. 
 Reservation technique: The call comes in to one phone. I keep the person on the line. Then I bring the other phone up to the other ear and call the restaurant. I do it right away, because if I don't get it done right there, it may not happen. 
 Traveling ritual: I have restaurants in London, San Francisco and now Louisville, Ky. But I never stay away from New York for more than three or four days, and I pack as light as possible. 
 Least favorite restaurant trend: A didactic recitation of specials. I don't do that in my restaurants. 
 Favorite takeout food: I love both Chinese and Italian, but nothing really beats takeout Chinese. A typical order would be dumplings, hot-and-sour soup and a noodle dish.
 Best low-end restaurant: I've been going for about 35 years to Benito's II on Mulberry Street in Little Italy. The food hasn't changed, which is a good thing, because the food is very good. 
 Biggest indulgence: I'm a cigar smoker. I would never break the law, so I don't smoke Cubans as a rule, except in London. But Montecristo A's are great. They are ridiculously long, big and expensive. If I can get through the day and have a full hour to smoke one, I see that as a reward. 
 Tools of his trade: I have three cellphones and always carry two and a Blackberry with me. I make a minimum of 100 calls on them a day. 
 Always with him: My assistant and driver, Tony Torres, and that's the scary part. I see him more than I see my wife. He drives me; he looks out for me. He's been with me about 10 years. 
 What they drive: We used to have a beat-up powder-blue Cadillac, which fit my image. I am one of those people who don't deserve a nice car. But we upgraded a few years ago to a white Mercedes S430. We lease it. 
 Room where he spends most time: The den. That's where I hang out with my two cocker spaniels, Jackson and Chloe. The corner of the couch is my domain, and the dogs move over when I'm there. 
 On going suburban: I grew up in New York. But my wife, Ann, really wanted to live outside the city. I capitulated because I wanted the dogs and the yard. I love it where we live. It's great.
 Favorite detox: There is something unbelievable about sitting in a sauna and sweating like crazy. I have a sauna on the second floor of my house. I put it in about 15 years ago. It's a real Swedish sauna. Wood- lined. It's beautiful. 
 Obsolete item he won't part with: I'm a pack rat. I have wallets from when I was a teenager. I have watches. I have baseball bats from when I was 16. I have books from when I was 8. 
 Favorite parental memento: My mother was an actress named Sybil Trent. She did a show on CBS Radio called ''Let's Pretend'' that kids listened to on Saturday mornings. I have 78s of the show, which I love. 
 What he wanted to be at age 5: The Cleveland Browns' running back Jim Brown. It was a startling realization that at 5 feet 9 inches, I wasn't going to make the N.F.L.
 Always by bedside: My iPod. Sometimes I'll listen to music before I go to bed. A current favorite is Frank Sinatra's ''Send in the Clowns.'' 
 Favorite kitchen gadget: The rubber spatula -- for moral reasons and for economic reasons. As a restaurateur, I don't like to waste a drop of anything. With a rubber spatula, you get that last drop. 
 Intro to restaurants: My father was an attorney who represented restaurateurs. The theater of it all was amazing to me. Even as a child, I'd be trying to figure out how it worked and creating service all-star teams, with one waiter from this place and one from another. 
 Favorite competitor's restaurant: I don't have a favorite, but I am always happy when I'm eating at a Joe Bastianich and Mario Batali place. They have a commitment to a certain kind of simplicity that works. 
 Worst customer behavior: An entire table of five sent back the same veal-chop entree. Those chops were cooked perfectly. I told the clients I couldn't cook them better and to choose another item. They ate, but I'm sure they never came back. 
 Evening routine: Being downtown and in my restaurants. I move around, and I pick at food, but I don't eat dinner. When I am in a healthy mode, I'll confine myself to that; when I'm unhealthy, I'll sit down and nosh at 2 a.m. I'm not normally home until midnight. 
 Keeping up with culture: I spend most of my days and nights inside restaurants. But I am media-addicted. So I do what I can to catch up by using my TiVo to record everything and watch it when I come home at night.
 Collections: I have an extensive collection of concert bootlegs. They are illegal, unfortunately, and over the years I have changed my opinion of them, but I love my cassette tape of the Who at the Metropolitan Opera, which I recorded myself around 1970. 
 Next big purchase: Another restaurant. Nowadays it is simpler and cheaper to buy somebody else's failing restaurant than to build one from scratch. 
 Always in fridge: Kosher pickles. You know, pickles have no calories. Always hot sauce. Lately, Vietnamese fish sauce, different cheeses, sliced turkey -- because that is the one thing you can eat without guilt. 
 Clothing item he can't live without: My bathrobe. Depending upon what my weight is, I need something that's big enough to cover me, so I don't scare my wife and two kids in the morning. 
 His weight: I've lost a lot of weight, which I often gain back. My joke is that I gain 50 pounds every time I open a new restaurant, and last year I opened two. So you do the math.
 Favorite dieting technique: Don't eat anything white, like rice, bread. I've heard Oprah Winfrey say that too. White things tend to be starchy. 
 Favorite restaurant memorabilia: On my mantle at home I have a picture of myself with Hillary Clinton; there's also a picture of me with Barack Obama. I like him, but I'm leaning to Hillary right now as my favorite photograph.
 Prized possession: My Xeroxed birth certificate with Muhammad Ali's signature on it. I had a Xerox of my birth certificate in my wallet one day, and he signed it. 
 Restaurant he still wants to do: Something on the level of a Four Seasons, something that is exquisitely built to last.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Michael Schmelling for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); SMOKING (67%) Restaurants

PERSON: Drew Nieporent; Edward Lewine

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



213 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Unhappy Meals

 BODY:
As I read Michael Pollan's article (Jan. 28), I found myself wishing I could read it out loud to everyone I know. His message is clear and powerful. We need to go back to eating food that is food -- that comes from a field rather than a factory, from a pot rather than a pouch. We need to turn back to eating the real, whole foods that our ancestors did. 
Marian Flaxman
 Chevy Chase, Md.The genius of Michael Pollan's article was in the simplicity of the first paragraph. Our family's new mantra is: ''Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.''Lynne Gomez
 Sherman, Conn.Pollan's excellent analysis of today's distorted eating habits leaves out one important ingredient -- the food industry's determination to wipe out home cooking. For well over half a century, food manufacturers have been trumpeting the message that cooking from scratch is so laborious and time-consuming that modern women should not take it seriously as a way to get dinner on the table. The solution, of course, is to buy boxes, jars and ready-mades, instead of what Pollan so nicely calls ''food.''Laura Shapiro
 New YorkI call it the ''McLipitor Syndrome.'' Patients feel they can eat whatever they want as long as they take a statin drug to lower cholesterol. Because of time constraints, physicians may spend little time counseling lifestyle change, which can work as well as or better than the best drugs for heart disease, obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure.Mark R. Goldstein, M.D.
 Naples, Fla.Summer for me means farmer's markets and fresh salads from unique lettuces, kale, fennel, escarole, corn, heirloom tomatoes -- the list goes on. Pollan briefly acknowledges that low-income families can have trouble accessing food like this. While working at a farmer's market here in Boston for several summers, I encountered lower-income families using food stamps that can be used at farmer's markets to buy fresh produce. The farmers then send these papers to the state for reimbursement. I think that this idea might be expanded. By working with farmers to open stands in low-income areas of cities, while providing a food stamp redeemable only for fresh, locally grown produce, states could in one fell swoop support a local, small-scale agricultural industry while giving families of all economic means access to fresh foods.Ellery Klein
 East Boston, Mass.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Leo Jung) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FAMILY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (86%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (86%); FOOD MFG (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); OBESITY (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (69%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (69%); GARDENING (69%); AGRICULTURE (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); CHOLESTEROL (66%); DIABETES (65%); HEART DISEASE (64%); HYPERTENSION (64%); FOOD STAMPS (61%) Food; Diet and Nutrition

PERSON: Michael Pollan; ellery klein; Mark R (Dr) Goldstein; Laura Shapiro; lynne gomez; marian flaxman

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



214 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: What's the Toll? It Depends on the Time of Day

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
FOR the small group of economists and policy wonks interested in applying supply-and-demand theories to the thorny problems of gridlock and ever-longer commutes, the $2.9 trillion fiscal 2008 budget released by President Bush on Monday contained some excellent news: $130 million in grants to finance construction of so-called congestion pricing systems.
 Congestion pricing -- the concept of charging higher fees to consumers for a good or a service at times of heavy use -- is well established in businesses like hotels, long-distance phone service and air travel. And while London and Stockholm have successfully enacted plans that levy fees on drivers who want to enter traffic-clogged city streets, the United States has been slow to apply the concept on the roads. When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed last year that New York look into congestion pricing as a means of unclogging the city's famously clogged roadways, he was roundly criticized. 
Actually, congestion pricing was born and bred in New York City. William Vickrey, the longtime Columbia University economist and 1996 Nobel laureate, is viewed as the father of the concept. In 1959, long before E-ZPass was a twinkle in a planner's eye, Mr. Vickrey proposed that cities could reduce traffic by using electronic systems to charge drivers for the privilege of nosing their sedans into urban grids.
 Advances in technology and the successful experiments in Europe and the United States lead many economists to view the present as an ideal time to apply the theory to traffic control. Since February 2003, when London introduced a system that charged a fee to motorists entering the central city on weekdays, ''congestion has been reduced noticeably,'' said Edward L. Glaeser, professor of economics at Harvard. ''People are using the roads less, and there have been remarkable upticks in speeds.''
 Beyond that, congestion pricing holds out the possibility of harnessing people's innate economic rationality and self-interest in order to promote a series of public goods. Every time a driver turns onto the Henry Hudson Parkway, she slows down the travel speed of all the other drivers, imposing a cost -- or, as economists say, a negative externality -- on countless fellow citizens. ''Everybody wants fewer people to drive, and everybody wants people to use less gas,'' said Gregory L. Rosston, deputy director of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research in Palo Alto, Calif. 
 But so far, high gas prices and concerns about emissions haven't led Americans to alter their driving patterns significantly. By making people take into account the true cost of driving -- beyond gasoline, insurance and lease payments -- congestion pricing in theory encourages people to car-pool, or to drive at different times of the day, or to take the train or bus. 
 There are a few congestion-pricing experiments in the United States today. On a portion of California Route 91, in Orange County, drivers can choose between the free road and the less-traveled pay-per-drive adjacent lanes, in which tolls vary throughout the day and throughout the week. Driving eastbound in the express lanes at 4 p.m. Thursday costs $9.25, compared with $1.85 at noon the same day. To the south, in San Diego, on an eight-mile stretch of Interstate 15, high-occupancy toll, or H.O.T., lanes can be used by individual motorists willing to pay fees that vary throughout the day, depending on traffic conditions. 
 Some number of travelers will always be willing to pay a price to save several minutes, while others would rather save a few dollars and take the chance of being stuck in traffic. ''People are willing to pay for that time savings, and the price can be adjusted in such a way that you keep the lanes pretty full but don't become overloaded,'' said Kenneth Small, research professor of economics at the University of California, Irvine. ''You can almost always drive in the express lanes without slowing down, free flow.'' In San Diego, the price of using the H.O.T. lanes can change every six minutes.
 The greater willingness of drivers and policy makers to consider congestion pricing is a recognition that building more roads will never be a solution to traffic problems.
 ''In many areas, it's extremely hard to find places to expand capacity,'' said Clifford Winston, an economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
 Today, variations of congestion pricing are in effect on stretches of highway in Houston, Minneapolis and Denver. The success of experiments and the new funding lead advocates like Mr. Winston to conclude that ''these H.O.T. lanes are just the tip of the iceberg.''
 THERE'S reason to think that we could be entering a golden age for congestion pricing. The transportation secretary, Mary E. Peters, is an advocate of the practice. Beyond the $130 million in this year's budget to help states and cities build congestion-pricing road systems, the Bush administration has signaled support for legislation that would use congestion pricing to encourage airlines to spread their flights more evenly throughout the day. What's more, the technology that enables operators of complex systems to adjust prices can facilitate congestion pricing in electricity and parking meters.
 But introducing congestion pricing on a wider scale will mean overcoming powerful cultural and psychological obstacles. 
 ''Everyone accepts that if your car is stationary, it's fine to pay for parking,'' said Alexander Tabarrok, professor of economics at George Mason University. ''But if you tell people they have to pay to move their car between two points, they think it's crazy.''
 The notion of charging people for a good or service generally regarded as free -- driving on highways -- also instills political opposition. In New York, many elected officials argued that charging fees to drivers would be a burden for poor and middle-income people. 
 Professor Glaeser disagrees. 
 ''The greatest beneficiaries of reduced congestion on roads in New York would be people who ride buses to get to and from work, who would find their commutes shortened.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some lanes on a stretch of California Route 91 use the ''congestion pricing'' system, with higher tolls when the highway is busier. Some economists say the time is right to expand the concept. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)Chart: ''AFTERNOON PREMIUM''The Thursday toll schedule for some California Route 91 eastbound express lanes, east of Los Angeles.Graph tracks Thursday toll schedule for some California Route 91 eastbound express lanes.$9.25: 4 to 6 p.m.(Source by Orange County Transportation Authority) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TRAINS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (55%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



215 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; YOUR TAXES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: For Entrepreneurs, a Crash Course in Accounting

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

DATELINE: KENSINGTON, Md. 

 BODY:
LIKE many starry-eyed entrepreneurs, James Warlick and his business partner concentrated their initial efforts on winning and serving customers and relegated mundane chores like taxes to the back burner.
 ''We were real excited,'' recalled Mr. Warlick, the proprietor of what in 1994 was a fledgling operation that printed T-shirts. ''We had an opportunity to start a business.''
It didn't take long, however, before Mr. Warlick, now 35, began to notice that the financial numbers of a business that took in a mere $90,000 that first year were not being tracked carefully and income tax was due. Eventually, though no audits or penalties resulted, the inattention required extra costs of $15,000 to $20,000 to straighten things out.
 ''Unfortunately, we didn't have any accounting training at all, so right from the get-go we started putting things in the wrong areas in QuickBooks,'' said Mr. Warlick, referring to the Intuit software series for small businesses. ''I had to hire someone to come in to clean up and figure out everything that we had mischaracterized or applied to the wrong sectors.'' Some deductions had been missed and some receivables went uncollected. 
 The urge to be masters of their financial fate has driven American entrepreneurs for generations. An estimated 671,800 enterprises with employees were created in 2005, according to the latest figures tabulated by the Small Business Administration. 
 And the growth in the number of those new enterprises, averaging 5.6 percent for the most recent three years, may pick up because of the trend toward early retirement from other jobs, when many people turn hobbies into businesses. There is also stepped-up pressure for workers themselves to provide for retirement as traditional corporate pensions fade.
 In addition, the baby-boom generation has begun to reach its 60s -- and self-employment rates rise steadily with age.
 But whether the owner of a new business is an avid amateur photographer setting out to work weddings on his weekends in retirement, or a prime-of-life entrepreneur considering a fast-food franchise, experts say that taxes should be a fundamental concern from the outset.
 Tax considerations largely determine your corporate structure, whether you start as a sole proprietorship, as a partnership or as a Subchapter S, limited-liability or even full C corporation.
 ''Show me your recent tax returns and then I can tell you'' the most advantageous structure, said Kevin G. Bradley, an accountant in Rockville, Md.
 ''Your tax bracket is important because you could have a spouse who's making $100,000 a year from another job,'' Mr. Bradley observed. Other factors include the amount of capital you invest and your future financing plans, which may include selling shares. 
 A Subchapter S corporation, for example, may save on self-employment taxes -- 15.3 percent for Social Security and Medicare this year -- but limit the amount you can put aside in tax-deferred retirement accounts.
 Many people, of course, earn money from sidelines, like child care or freelance writing, without doing anything more than reporting the income on Schedule C of the Form 1040 (not to be confused with C corporations filing Form 1120).
 Some don't bother with even that, becoming tax chiselers who may operate for years without being caught. Those who thrive, however, usually reach a point where they are forced into legitimacy.
 ''What usually brings people in the door if they've been living under the radar is if they're trying to buy a new house or do some financial transaction where they will need this other income to help them qualify,'' said Sharon Peters Martin, an accountant and proprietor of Advance Financial in Silver Spring, Md. ''Those are usually what make people stand up and say, 'Oh yeah, I do do this.' ''
 If a start-up expects annual revenue to exceed $50,000, Ms. Martin tends to favor incorporation because the resulting business is typically taxed less heavily than a sole proprietorship, though extra record-keeping might offset the savings.
 But the Internal Revenue Service, from which you must obtain an employer identification number and which you must satisfy as to employment, unemployment and possibly excise taxes on products or businesses, is only part of the entrepreneur's introduction to tax issues.
 States and sometimes county and local governments will also have their hands in your pockets. Maryland, for instance, requires most companies to pay a $300 annual fee to register a business and then assesses furniture, machinery, inventory and other assets for what is perplexingly called a personal property tax. This levy, ranging from about 1 1/2 percent to 4 percent, is imposed and collected by local jurisdictions. 
 As elsewhere, retail businesses also have the chore of serving as collectors of the state's 5 percent sales tax on most goods. Businesses remit this at intervals, based on size.
 Faced with the press of daily operations, fledgling managers can make numerous mistakes; perhaps the most costly one is failing to promptly engage professional help -- especially accountants but also lawyers and, often, insurance agents.
 ''They don't know what they're supposed to be filing and can go two years'' before a problem is noticed when, say, one authority talks to another, Mr. Bradley said.
 Two issues are of particular interest to the I.R.S. One is efforts by managers of some companies to minimize Social Security and Medicare taxes by taking unreasonably low salaries and using the money instead for dividends or to repay loans. 
 Another offense that is likely to get you into serious trouble is failure to remit taxes withheld from employees. That money carries fiduciary responsibilities that can leave an entrepreneur personally liable even if the business fails.
 Experts say that you should open bank accounts to be used strictly by the business, so that its funds are not mixed with personal ones.
 ''It's going to make tax-preparation costs a lot less than if I have to try to figure out what is business and what is not,'' said Ralph L. Benson, another area accountant, who specializes in small businesses. 
 Although the law is complex, riddled with gray areas and subject to frequent judicial as well as legislative change, there is a wealth of tax and other information available to those who are starting businesses.
 The I.R.S. has an excellent Web site, www.irs.gov, which includes its 27-page Publication 583, Starting a Business and Keeping Records. The wide-ranging Small Business Administration site, www.sba.gov, can steer you to the Service Corps of Retired Executives, an S.B.A.-funded organization with 400 offices where nearly 12,000 volunteers mentor small businesses at no cost.
 MR. WARLICK'S 15-employee company, now called Colorworks Promotions, has evolved since its 1994 start, from a partnership to a Subchapter S corporation that did nearly $4 million of business last year. 
 In addition to printing and embroidering apparel, Colorworks supplies businesses with mugs, mouse pads and other marketing items, and it warehouses and fills orders for online retailers. It shipped goods for the American Red Cross in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and in the summer of 2005 landed a large Medicare contract to distribute training literature for the government's new prescription drug plan. 
 Taxes, even as they grew more complex as the business bought embroidery machines and other equipment to be depreciated, are no longer a headache to calculate, only to pay.
 Looking back, Mr. Warlick marvels at how he prospered despite having had to learn on the job such basics as the tax benefits provided by company vehicles.
 He learned, for example, that it is better for the company to lease vehicles than to use personal ones and deduct the business mileage. (There's also not the bother of keeping a log.)
 ''Our biggest mistake was probably not taking an accounting class or not hitting the community college for some kind of new-business workshop,'' he said. ''We just dove into it and then tried to figure it out.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Warlick's apparel embroidery company has thrived, but he had to learn many of the basics about taxes on the job. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (78%); FAST FOOD (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); TRENDS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); FRANCHISING (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (61%) Small Business; Taxation; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (83%)

PERSON: Robert D Jr Hershey

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



216 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2480 words

HEADLINE: In India, the Golden Age of Television Is Now

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
GHANSHYAM P. SHAH, an 82-year-old widower, spends up to eight hours a day in front of his television watching prayer services, soap operas and financial news. But one afternoon last December, he was completely disconnected from his favorite pastime -- and visibly unsettled -- because his new digital set-top box was not working.
 ''I'll become really agitated if I can't watch,'' Mr. Shah said as Rumy M. Bhagat, the owner of a small cable company, gave up and plugged the wire directly into the television until he could return with another box. The image was no longer digital, but that did not matter to Mr. Shah, a retired gold and silver dealer, whose face lit up as CNBC India reported that the price of gold was up in afternoon trading.
Mr. Bhagat explained that some set-top boxes, which had been sitting in warehouses for months in advance of a government-mandated change to digital television, had proved a weak match for the heat and humidity of Mumbai. ''Sometimes we have teething problems,'' he said. 
 Growing pains like these are common throughout India's booming television industry. Deregulation and new technology have combined to produce an explosion of new offerings. Before the early 1990s, a single government broadcaster provided a handful of channels. Now a crowded field of domestic and global media companies, including the News Corporation, Sony Entertainment and Walt Disney, offer hundreds of channels. 
 Indian films, especially the flashy musicals and dramas of Bollywood, have grabbed plenty of attention in the West. But the country's lesser-known television business is more than twice as big, with an estimated $3.4 billion in revenue in 2005, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. It is also starting to exert greater cultural influence. 
 Television ownership is growing fast here, and it has plenty more room to expand. There are roughly 105 million homes with televisions in India, up from 88 million in 2000. The current number of television households is about the same as in the United States, though for India that amounts to only about half of the country's households, compared with 98 percent in the United States. 
 Advertising spending on Indian television increased by 21 percent a year, on average, from 1995 to 2005, when it reached $1.6 billion, according to ZenithOptimedia, which tracks advertising globally. Double-digit growth rates are expected to continue for years. 
 Such numbers are very tempting to companies like the News Corporation, Disney, Time Warner and Viacom, which are losing viewers and advertisers in their core Western markets. (In addition to the domestic market, Indian television is also delivered via satellite and cable to the global South Asian diaspora.)
 The pace of change in India is supercharged because the country is catching up to, and in some cases leapfrogging, developments that took decades to play out elsewhere.
 ''Everything that happened in the rest of the world in 10 years, is happening here in two years,'' said Vikram Kaushik, the chief executive of Tata Sky, a satellite-TV company that is jointly owned by the News Corporation and the Tata Group, the Indian industrial conglomerate.
 In the 1990s, media companies seized on new opportunities in India after the government, which had controlled broadcasting for nearly 50 years, began releasing its grip. The first big changes in Indian television came in the early part of that decade, when cable operators used satellite dishes, illegal but tolerated at the time, to give subscribers access to news on CNN, as well as American soap operas and movies. Viewers could also watch Indian movies and music on Zee TV, then a fledgling joint venture between the News Corporation and an Indian entrepreneur.
 Previously, India's ruling elite had a dual and somewhat contradictory view of broadcasting. On the one hand, politicians considered it too powerful a force to be left to the private sector, especially in the years after independence in 1947, when the nation's unity and secularism were considered vulnerable. On the other hand, television was seen as too frivolous to merit much investment at a time when politicians were focused on turning India into an industrial power. 
 Those attitudes began to change after a financial crisis in the early '90s forced the Indian government to devalue its currency, the rupee, and to start relinquishing its tight control over the economy. Then, in 1995, the country's highest court declared the government's monopoly over broadcasting unconstitutional.
 When it did yield, India went further in deregulating television than it did in other sectors of the economy. It also gave up far more control when compared with China, the country against which it is most often measured. Foreign media companies can fully own entertainment networks here; they cannot in China. (India does, however, limit foreign ownership to 26 percent of television news channels and newspapers.) 
 THE open environment attracted the News Corporation, which entered the market in 1993 by acquiring Star TV. Star has the highest-rated shows among the private networks in Hindi-speaking parts of the country. Sony started its flagship channel here in 1995 and now has seven channels; the company owns about 61 percent of the business, with Indian investors owning the rest. The biggest Indian broadcasters are Zee and Sun TV, which dominates ratings in non-Hindi-speaking southern India. 
 Still, Doordarshan, the public broadcaster, remains the most widely available network, especially in rural areas, where a majority of the population lives.
 To keep up with changing times, Doordarshan has retooled its programming, adding genres like soap operas and musical contests to a lineup that is still dominated by more high-minded -- and what some critics would call staid -- cultural programming. It has also started a satellite-TV service that has no subscription fees but also does not include the most popular private channels.
 Star has been one of the few consistently profitable businesses in Indian television. Although the News Corporation does not disclose financial details of its operations here, Merrill Lynch estimates that Star accounts for 3 percent of the company's total operating income, or about $116 million in the 2006 fiscal year. 
 Zee, which started by offering a few hours of programming a day, now has more than two dozen channels; it started a satellite-TV service, DishTV, in 2004. ''We offered an alternative to a broadcaster, Doordarshan, from which urban audiences felt disconnected,'' said Ashish Kaul, a senior vice president at Zee. ''You cannot blame Doordarshan; it had a national obligation.'' 
 About 60 percent of the nation's television households subscribe to the cable or satellite services that carry private channels. Though Indians theoretically have dozens of channels to choose from, a handful dominate the ratings and earn most of the profits. A fragmented cable business is straining to reshape itself in response to new regulations and competition from satellite television services.
 The transition to digital cable, meanwhile, has so far occurred only in parts of India's four most populous cities. The changeover has been troubled by technical problems, weak enforcement of a Jan. 1 deadline and a shortage of set-top boxes. 
 At the same time, the newest technology operates alongside the often stark economic and social realities of India. Black-and-white televisions still account for an estimated 40 percent of all TV's in use, and about 56 percent of rural households do not have electricity, according to India's 2001 census. And because most homes in India that have a television havejust one set, watching TV can be a communal activity that brings together the entire family, and often the neighbors, too. 
 Perhaps the most striking of the changes in Indian television is what is starting to show up on the screen. 
 ''Dhoom Machaoo Dhoom'' (Hindi for ''Let's have a blast'') is a Disney show aimed at teenagers, and it might look at home on the Disney Channel in the United States. It is about four teenage girls, one of them from New York, who want to start a band so they can represent their school in a talent contest. They face a number of challenges, including an arrogant classmate who is determined to derail their plans.
 But the show, which went on the air last month, has an Indian twist. Priyanka, the New Yorker who has returned to her family's native land, wants the girls to perform a song they have created, rather than using a tune from a popular Bollywood movie, as the local norms dictate. In one episode, Kajal, played by Sriti Jha, complains that Priyanka doesn't understand India. ''Only Bollywood works here,'' she insists.
 The girls do not dwell on the issue, but it is an important consideration for television executives and media companies here. Indian television has a strong partnership with the film industry, whose stars appear on its shows as guests, contestants and hosts. Movies and music videos from Bollywood remain staples on television here.
 Yet in the last decade television has attained influence over the popular culture that is starting to rival that of the film business. And whereas filmmakers have traditionally worked in close-knit networks that operate in a single language, media companies have been exploiting the large and growing capacity of cable and satellite networks to cheaply develop customized channels and shows for different parts of the country. Zee, for instance, operates several regional-language entertainment and news channels. 
 ''We have a vibrant TV industry,'' said Rama Bijapurkar, a business consultant whose clients include Disney and who also writes a column for The Economic Times. ''When talking about the hinterland, TV is what Bollywood would like to be.'' 
 Nachiket Pantvaidya, an executive director at Disney's Indian operations, predicted that ''Dhoom'' would be a breakthrough for Indian television because it was one of the few shows produced for teenagers, and specifically for girls. He said that more than 90 percent of what Indian youths watch on TV are family dramas and other shows created for their parents.
 ''This is a story of kids who are trying to do something out of the ordinary,'' Mr. Pantvaidya said. ''Nobody makes TV for the real world. This kind of TV is rare.'' 
 Ms. Jha, the 20-year-old who plays one of the girls on ''Dhoom,'' added: ''This can't be compared to the whole lot of family serials. This is much more real and close to the lives of kids.''
 ''Dhoom'' is Disney's sophomore effort at producing TV shows in India -- its first, ''Vicky Aur Vetaal,'' was based on an Indian myth about a prince and a genie-like figure. The company sees television as the first step in a broader India strategy that includes films, merchandising and possibly a theme park. Last year, Disney spent $44.5 million to acquire a 15 percent stake in UTV, a production company based in Mumbai, and to buy Hungama, a television channel of children's programming created by UTV.
 ''We decided early on that this had to be driven locally,'' said Gary Marsh, president of entertainment for Disney Channel Worldwide in Burbank, Calif. ''If we were to truly become a global company, we had to let our regional organizations create their own programming.'' India was the first country where the company developed local Disney Channel shows, something it is now doing in Britain and Japan, too.
 Many of Disney's competitors have built their businesses on a similar strategy. Time Warner, which operates the Pogo and Cartoon Network channels here, is offering an Indian version of ''Sesame Street'' called ''Galli Galli Sim Sim.'' The show uses some material from the popular American show, but it is set on an Indian streetscape and is anchored by four local Muppets. A large orange-and-red lion named Boombah replaces Big Bird.
 Television executives say the ventures by Disney and others aimed at youths and various niche markets are a welcome break from the way business has been done in India. A handful of channels -- which carry soap operas, reality shows, music shows and important cricket tournaments -- receive the bulk of the advertising. Yet entrepreneurs continue spending millions of dollars starting copycat networks. India has more than 40 cable news channels, for example.
 ''Here it is, we have 200 channels of the same stuff, and people are saying let's do more of it,'' said Sameer Nair, chief executive of Star Entertainment, a News Corporation subsidiary. ''That will churn and change.'' (In an indication that competition is intensifying, Mr. Nair announced last month that he would be leaving Star in March. According to news reports, he will be helping a rival Indian-owned TV company start a new entertainment channel.)
 AS media executives try to introduce innovative programming, exactly what can go on the air in India remains fluid. There is no overt censorship of television content, but most media companies say they aggressively police themselves to avoid running afoul of political and cultural mores. 
 Several movie channels were forced to go off the air for more than a week last summer when a court in Mumbai ruled in favor of a schoolteacher who had argued that films that had been rated for adult viewing only in their cinematic release could not be shown on television without being edited and recertified for a wider audience. 
 In some ways, television fare in India today is far more adventurous than it was even five years ago. A recent adaptation of ''Big Brother,'' known here as ''Bigg Boss,'' for instance, has stirred the pot by showing minor celebrities behaving badly. Though it may seem insignificant, the show has let viewers see famous people as human beings, said Kunal Dasgupta, who heads Sony's Indian television operations, which broadcasts the show.
 Still, Mr. Dasgupta knows that social customs evolve slowly here. He said he was considering ''with kid gloves'' a proposal from an Italian company to help produce a miniseries that would be based loosely on the life of Sonia Gandhi, the Italian-born leader of India's ruling Congress Party who is the widow of the former prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi.
 The proposal calls for an Indian cast, but the series would take an ''Italian perspective,'' Mr. Dasgupta said. ''I find it very exciting and challenging,'' he said. ''At the same time, knowing our own media, we could be ripped apart.'' He said he was ''trying to see if we can get people who are really in power to accept that if we do such a thing it will be O.K.'' 
 The fact that he is even considering such a proposal is a sign of how far television has come in India. And as the country continues to experience major economic and social changes, the shape of Indian television is likely to keep evolving.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ghanshyam Shah, 82, watches TV for hours a day. TV ownership and programming are exploding in India. (Photo by Santosh Verma for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 ''Dhoom Machaoo Dhoom,'' a Disney show in India, is about four teenage girls who want to start a band. (Photo by Santosh Verma for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Chart: ''A TV Ad Boom''Television advertising revenue is gaining market share over newspapers and magazines in India.Graph tracks percentage of advertising revenue gained from newspapers and magazines, television and other from 1994 to 2006.2006 is estimated.(Source by ZenithOptimedia)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); GOLD MARKETS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%); FILM (64%) Television; Industry Profiles; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Television

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (67%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (51%); VIACOM INC (51%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (67%); NWS (ASX) (67%); DIS (NYSE) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (71%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



217 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: It's a Great Country, Especially if You're Rich

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THIS is a column about two vital investment notions.
 First, much has been made lately of stock buybacks by public companies. A stock buyback, as the name implies, occurs when a company uses its cash to buy back its stock. There has been a staggering amount of this stuff going on lately.
In 2006, according to Phil DeMuth, my friend, book-writing partner and investment wizard, stock buybacks by the largest American corporations were roughly $325 billion, an immense sum even when compared with, say, 2004, when they were closer to $200 billion, itself a vast sum.
 The criticism of these buybacks is that they reduce the number of shares outstanding at Company X, and earnings are therefore spread over fewer shares. This raises earnings per share, and -- in a good market -- presumably raises the price of the shares, all other things held equal. This, in turn, makes the value of the options held by executives rise. So, supposedly, this makes share buybacks suspect. 
 But I would like to offer a few more thoughts on share buybacks and then hit that one.
 When Company X buys back its shares, it is essentially saying that it thinks the investment is a good use of the company's money. Thus, if the company is selling at a price-to-earnings ratio of 20 -- a normal state today, implying a 5 percent annual profit -- management is saying that it has enough cash so that it is happy to invest in something paying a 5 percent return. 
 The market as a whole is trading at about 20 times earnings, so the business community as a whole is saying it likes investments yielding 5 percent. This is discouraging. Historically, 5 percent is not an especially good rate of return on invested capital. The leaders of very few of America's companies would jump for joy if you were an employee and brought them a new project whose yield would be 5 percent per annum. 
 Years ago, the investor and entrepreneur Roy L. Ash, a co-founder of Litton Industries, said that his company liked investments yielding more like 12 percent. Henry Wallich, my finance professor at Yale, said a long-term yield of 10 percent should be considered the threshold for a project. 
 That our companies are happy with 5 percent is not a good sign for investment opportunities. The decline in returns may have to do with the vast accumulations of capital in this society. 
 As the classical 18th-century economist Adam Smith and his 19th-century disciple David Ricardo intuitively recognized, as societies acquire more capital, the return on that capital falls. That may well be what's happening in the United States. If so, it's a not a great portent for stock market returns over the long haul. 
 Next, it's true that buybacks can raise the value of stock options held by management. But there are two big mitigating factors: 
 First, buybacks do not benefit only managers; the earnings per share of the stocks owned by us pound animals known as public stockholders also rises. Unfortunately for us stray animals, we don't get options triggered by reaching certain earnings-per-share goals as our betters up at the manor do. 
 (And, of course, the fundamentals of most businesses are not really improved by buybacks, which is what the options are supposed to be all about. But by now, that's an old story in these columns.)
 Second, while markets sometimes like buybacks, sometimes they dislike buybacks as a totem that a company has matured and has no better use of its money.
 In other words, buybacks are not a sure thing to move a stock.
 Finally, there used to be a truism that stock buybacks are a tax-favored form of paying investors. If the buybacks raise the stock price, they make money for the investors that was once taxed at favored capital gains rates, as compared with dividends. 
 But now, under the Bush tax regime, most dividends and long-term capital gains are taxed at the same gloriously low rate. Thus the rationale of a tax advantage for the buyback vanishes.
 It all seems complicated. (None of this would ever happen inside the gates of Eden.) But maybe corporations are simply flooded with money. 
 My seer, Phil DeMuth, found out for me that the members of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index alone had more than $2.6 trillion in cash and equivalents at the end of 2006. That is a stunning amount. 
 The corporations simply do not know what to do with it. No one is going to call them insane if they buy back stock, and thus they cover their backsides while possibly feathering their nests.
 (There is another interesting aspect to this: the immense mass of stock that is owned by the wealthiest 10 percent of families in this country -- by some measures as much as 80 percent of all stock. And a very, very large portion of it is owned by the wealthiest 1 percent of families. In fact, the upper 1 percent owned about 44 percent of financial assets in 2001, the most recent year for which I could get data. 
 (If you said that the $2.6 trillion of cash owned by American corporations was yet another asset of the very rich, you would not be terribly far off. This makes it a bit sad -- no, heartbreaking -- for the roughly 80 percent of Americans who have no or virtually no savings.)
 Or, to put it yet another way, this is a great, magnificent country, beyond all reason, with the doors of opportunity open to all. But it's really, really great for the rich.
 NOW, I said that this was about two investment thoughts. Here's the more important one. 
 My wife is a saint. She is a living, breathing saint. She is good-natured, patient, helpful (she cleans out the icky cat litter boxes and bathes our pitiful three-legged adopted toy poodle), and she has put up with misconduct by me on a scale that is beyond imagining. 
 We have been together for decades, and for decades she has wanted a big diamond ring. I thought of every excuse I could for not getting it for her: let's give the money to charity, what about our old age, what about our dogs' old age, the cats' old age and so forth. Finally, two years ago, I gave in and bought her a big diamond that I could ill afford. 
 It makes her so happy that I feel like an idiot for not having done it sooner. She looks at it endlessly, twirls it around and around her finger, loves it, worships it. 
 Now, bear in mind, most of her waking hours are spent helping animals through the International Fund for Animal Welfare. She is a charitable, saintly woman. But human beings like tokens of affection. She's a saint, but she's a human being. 
 In a few days it will be Valentine's Day. Don't mortgage your future, but if the last few years have been good to you and if you have given what you should to charity, make the investment in your spouse or significant other. 
 The return in her happiness, as far as I can tell, is beyond counting -- and tax free. 
 When you're out of town, when you're under the ground, that stone will still be there on her finger -- and in a way, you will be, too.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Valentine's Day ; Jewels and Jewelry; Diamonds

PERSON: Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



218 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: One Angry African Puts Big Money on Trial

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

DATELINE: ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands 

 BODY:
A RARITY among contemporary filmmakers, Abderrahmane Sissako is doing his best to uphold the tradition of ''J'accuse'' and the outraged polemic. For his latest movie Mr. Sissako, who lives in Paris, returned to his family courtyard in Bamako, the capital of Mali, and staged an act of symbolic justice. 
 ''Bamako,'' which opens Wednesday at Film Forum in Manhattan, is a courtroom drama that takes place within a mud-walled compound. It revolves around an unlikely cast of characters: the plaintiffs are the people of Africa; the defendants, charged with worsening the economic plight of the continent, are the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
''Through art you can invent the impossible.'' Mr. Sissako, 45, said in an interview here at the Rotterdam International Film Festival, where he was the subject of a retrospective. ''It's obviously an improbable scenario: to put on trial these two institutions that nobody can hold accountable. But that's the point. In this little courtyard we make the impossible possible.'' 
 To staff the tribunal in ''Bamako,'' Mr. Sissako sought out real judges and lawyers, whom he armed with extensive research material. He also assembled a cross section of witnesses, from childhood friends to a former minister of culture, all appearing as themselves. Once the cameras were rolling, he allowed the improvised arguments to unfold without interruption. Witness after witness lands blow after blow against the economic policies of the international financial bodies, contending that they have contributed to the impoverishment of Africa and led to cuts in health care and education.
 But ''Bamako,'' despite its equation of globalized capitalism and neocolonialism, is not purely a diatribe. To an almost surreal degree it emphasizes the drift of daily life. In the very space where the court is in session, residents come and go, women dye fabric, a wedding party passes by. ''The idea of the trial was born together with the idea of showing life adjacent to it,'' Mr. Sissako said.
 He also fleshes out the film with a few scripted story lines, which he called ''attempts to maintain the viewers' attention.'' In the most flamboyant divertissement he cuts to a mock spaghetti western that the neighborhood children are watching on television -- a nod to the first movies he saw and a pointed comment on the dominance of Western culture and ideology. The cowboys in the film-within-the-film are played by friends of Mr. Sissako, including the American actor Danny Glover, who is an executive producer of ''Bamako,'' and the Palestinian director Elia Suleiman.
 The primary setting of ''Bamako'' holds great significance for Mr. Sissako, whose work often incorporates elements of autobiography. ''I couldn't have made a film like this in just any courtyard,'' he said. ''It had to be this one, where I grew up. Shooting there I felt protected. I felt I was allowed to make mistakes.''
 Thanks to Mr. Sissako's father, an engineer, there was always a bustling communal atmosphere at the compound. ''My father was the only one in his family who went to school,'' he said. ''He felt a responsibility to take in the children of relatives and friends who were less well off. Usually there would be about 30 people in the house.'' The courtyard, he said, ''is Malian society in miniature.''
 Mr. Sissako was born in Mauritania but grew up in Mali, his father's home country. As a teenager he bristled against the oppressive school system. ''I was never a good student, and I started to get militant ideas because I wanted to overthrow the school,'' he said. 
 His revolutionary views grew more focused when he encountered the writings of Che Guevara, African-American civil rights activists like W. E. B. Dubois, and anticolonialist authors like Frantz Fanon and Aime Cesaire. He was also galvanized by the global anti-apartheid movement and caught up in a growing resentment toward the military dictatorship in Mali. By his late teens he was organizing student strikes. ''It was a dangerous time,'' he said. ''Friends of mine were in prison. One was dead.''
 At 19, he moved to Nouakchott, the capital of Mauritania, where his mother was living. Homesick for Mali, unfamiliar with the local dialect, he found unexpected solace at the Soviet cultural center, where he spent his days playing table tennis, learning Russian and reading Dostoevsky. He ended up at the prestigious film academy in Moscow. After nearly a decade there he moved to Paris in the early 1990s. His nomadic existence strongly informed his worldview. He found his voice as a poet of displacement, forever grappling with the bafflement of exile and the sorrow of the impossible return.
 In ''Waiting for Happiness'' (2002), set in a Mauritanian coastal town that functions as a way station between Africa and the West, one of the characters is an alienated young man visiting his mother before he leaves for Europe. In ''Life on Earth'' (1998) Mr. Sissako plays a version of himself, an expatriate returning from Paris to Mali on the eve of the millennium. One line in that film, from a letter that the young man writes to his father, sums up the ambivalent yearning at the heart of his work: ''Is what I learn far from you worth what I forget about us?'' (Both films were shown at the New York Film Festival. New Yorker Films will release ''Waiting for Happiness'' on DVD later this year.) 
 The overtly political ''Bamako'' represents a move away from autobiography. ''I was getting tired of drawing on my own life,'' Mr. Sissako said. ''There's a natural end to that process.''
 But the explicit subject of ''Bamako'' had been the implicit themes of his other films: the legacy of colonialism and the lopsided relationship between the first and third worlds. Even more than the average courtroom procedural, it is a film about the power of the spoken word, giving voice to those normally denied that privilege.
 It also, however, demonstrates the limits of language. Called to the stand, one of the witnesses finds himself unable to speak. ''Truth cannot always be expressed in words,'' Mr. Sissako said. ''It can also be silent, and you cannot say no to those who are silent.''
 In the movie's emotional climax, another witness forgoes conventional testimony and sings a full-throated lament. The scene is left unsubtitled, but the sentiments could not be clearer. ''He was singing in a dialect from the south of Mali,'' Mr. Sissako said. ''Even most of the people in the courtyard didn't understand it, but we were all very moved.'' 
 As for the film's economic arguments, they are probably too simplified to withstand the scrutiny of experts. Christopher Udry, a professor of economics at Yale University who teaches and writes about rural economic organization in Africa, said that while ''Bamako'' addressed the ''fundamental power asymmetry'' of the situation, he thought the film was compromised by its stridency.
 ''The World Bank actually puts an enormous amount of energy in trying to listen,'' Professor Udry said. ''There is broad recognition that structural adjustment was not successful, though there is disagreement as to why.'' 
 Mr. Glover, who studied economics in college and has been involved in human rights issues for decades, said by telephone that he hoped the film ''does more than preach to the choir.'' He added, ''It's a statement that opens up a space for dialogue.''
 The African group of the International Monetary Fund has seen it, Mr. Sissako said, but he has yet to receive any feedback. Last month he showed his film in Bamako, in front of the courtyard where it was shot. Thousands turned up. Still, insofar as the movie is a broadside, its designated audience is a Western one. Mr. Sissako recalled the advice of an old friend, a Malian judge: ''He told me, 'Don't think this film will change anything. But you have to make it. Perhaps then they will know that we know.' ''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aisatta Tall Sall, above left, and Aissa Maiga in a scene from ''Bamako,'' directed by Abderrahmane Sissako, left. (Photo by New Yorker Films)
 (Photo by Pascal Guyot/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FILM GENRES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUDGES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%) Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) World Bank; International Monetary Fund

PERSON: Dennis Lim; Abderrahmane Sissako

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (87%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) AFRICA (93%); MALI (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); FRANCE (88%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



219 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Web Auteur Takes the Leap From YouTube To Boob Tube

BYLINE: By JOHN CLARK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Mich. 

 BODY:
DAVID LEHRE, the young director anointed by the press as an unlikely phenom and a kid on the fast track, is giving a group of actors a piece of unwelcome news. Dressed in swimsuits and T-shirts, they are standing in a park in a Detroit suburb on a fall day so cold that their bare arms and legs look like chicken skin. ''I want you guys to be blasted by a power washer,'' Mr. Lehre says. 
 He is going for laughs, not hygiene. And he gets them from the handful of crew members watching the guys being knocked off their feet by a device more frequently used to scour houses and concrete. Off to the side, out of camera range, there's another audience, a pair of preadolescent boys who have stopped to watch the goings-on.
''If these kids don't leave, we have a hit show,'' says Scott Vener, Mr. Lehre's manager and the executive producer of this project. ''He knows who his audience is.'' The kids do stick around, making this a first focus group. 
 Actually that's not quite true. Over the past year Mr. Lehre, 22, has been an Internet phenomenon, posting a series of highly popular videos on his Web site (davidlehre.com) that have quickly appeared on YouTube. The most famous of these was ''MySpace: The Movie,'' a parody of the social networking site that doubled as a canny piece of self-promotion.
 The video was so slick that it helped land Mr. Lehre, a college dropout who still lives with his parents, a deal with Fox to produce his own half-hour late-night television show. Still untitled, it's ''an open-format sketch-variety show with music videos, short videos and comedy skits,'' as he put it. It is being shot here in his hometown near Detroit, and features his friends both in front of and behind the camera. Fox has given him $300,000 to make the pilot. Also part of the deal is a film project that he hopes to start this summer.
 Midwifing much of this is Mr. Vener, a manager-producer at the Schiff Company, a management agency that represents Eminem and Justin Timberlake. Like Mr. Lehre the director, Mr. Vener the manager represents a new hybrid of the Internet and Hollywood. Their familiarity with one medium informs the their work in other, and vice-versa. 
 The question is how far this will take them. Up to this point they have been the beneficiaries of television executives' aggressive search for programming that will halt the medium's slide in popularity with younger audiences, even if, as in the case of Mr. Lehre, they're not sure what they're getting.
 Clearly one thing they got from Mr. Lehre was Internet-style economy. He borrowed props from everywhere: a Cessna from a friend of one of the producers, a Chrysler Prowler from one of Mr. Lehre's neighbors, some hair clipped from the head of a crew member for a fake mustache, pasta left over from lunch to throw on an actor's face. A crew member's basement became a clubhouse for one skit. Mr. Lehre's garage was the scene of a break-dancing video. His skateboard was used for a dolly shot. Production meetings were sometimes held in his bedroom. He brainstormed on his trampoline.
 A big test of Mr. Lehre's viability as a television director was whether he could slow down his disposable, high-speed Internet shooting approach and embrace television's higher production values. It wasn't always easy. He had to be talked into covering scenes with more than one camera so that he would have editing options. Details that would drive most directors crazy -- shadows thrown on actors' faces, for example -- didn't appear to concern him, as long as he got the shot.
 ''Never in all my years producing television have I seen anyone like David Lehre,'' said Michael Binkow, who was hired by Fox to produce the pilot and whose credits include the reality show ''30 Seconds to Fame.'' ''He gets to a location, shoots it in 10 minutes and says, 'That's it, I've got it.' '' Asked if Mr. Lehre really got it, Mr. Binkow replied, ''That remains to be seen.''
 Inevitably this breakneck pace was often thwarted, sometimes by production machinery, sometimes by the grown-ups on the set. Mr. Lehre wasn't thrilled to be receiving input of any sort, especially from people outside the circle of friends and collaborators who have been working with him all along.
 ''It felt like we were doing the same thing we'd always been doing, but we just had more people around to help,'' said Mr. Lehre, who had nothing but praise for Fox -- almost. ''I think the most annoying thing was having the producers on set telling you what they thought. If their opinions were that high and they are that good at comedy, they'd have their own show.''
 Mr. Lehre's irreverence -- or youthful arrogance -- wasn't reserved just for the shoot. In his eyes the whole mainstream-television ecosystem is suspect, including MTV, which he said once aggressively courted him with a broadband deal. ''They had this whole plan about how they were going to bring me up through the ranks,'' he said. ''I was like, 'O.K., whatever,' and we turned it down. And then they got really angry. So I won't be on 'TRL' any time soon.'' MTV did not return calls seeking comment.
 Mr. Lehre added: ''And then Comedy Central offered me an online deal. That's silly to me. Kids don't want to go online and watch some stupid Comedy Central channel, when they can just go on YouTube and watch whatever they want. So we turned that down.'' A spokesman for Comedy Central acknowledged that the network met with Mr. Lehre but denied that an offer was made. Whatever happened between Mr. Lehre and his suitors, it's fair to say that he wanted the training wheels taken off: broadband, where he could post on his own, was not enough; only broadcast, where he could work in a longer format, would do.
 Mr. Lehre ended up at Fox after a meeting with the network's president for entertainment, Peter Liguori, who essentially told him to go make his television show. ''The chance that you take is: Let's see what he does,'' said Todd Yasui, senior vice president for late-night programming at Fox. ''You're going to get a good read on what he does by letting him loose.'' So although Fox executives needed to know what Mr. Lehre was shooting, they agreed to let him do it in Michigan with his friends. What they wouldn't let him do here, Mr. Lehre said, was postproduction.
 ''They threatened to pull the show,'' Mr. Lehre said. ''They said, 'David, you have to edit the show in L.A.' I'm like, 'No, this is how I do it.' And this is how a lot of kids my age do it. When you're editing, you're editing 24/7. Like right now I'm in my pajamas. I go downstairs, get some lunch, hang out with my friends, watch music videos, go get ice cream, whatever.''
 Mr. Yasui disputed that. ''We never had planned on having him post in L.A.,'' he said. ''We might have talked about it at the beginning.''
 Nevertheless Mr. Vener contended that he helped persuade Fox to allow Mr. Lehre to bring its equipment home and edit the footage without supervision. And he had to convince Mr. Lehre to be patient.
 ''The advice I gave him was not really advice,'' Mr. Vener said. ''It was more about managing his expectations of why he couldn't do what he wanted when he wanted. He has to learn that when art becomes a business there are rules to the game.''
 Mr. Lehre is already learning. Mr. Yasui said that Mr. Lehre has surprised him by listening to the studio's notes without being ''precious'' about his work. Perhaps that's because he can always bounce their ideas off his trampoline.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Images from David Lehre's parody ''MySpace: The Movie,'' which became an Internet sensation last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); FOCUS GROUPS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (68%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (63%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%) Television; Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Video)

ORGANIZATION: Youtube; Fox Network

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (57%) John Clark; David Lehre

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (91%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Washington (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



220 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: Where the Winery Itself Is a Little Tipsy

BYLINE: By CHRIS COLIN

DATELINE: NAPA, Calif. 

 BODY:
HISTORICALLY American fans of the wildly eccentric artist and designer Friedensreich Hundertwasser have had to board a plane to get their fix. But for those who do make it to his colorful, biomorphic public housing masterpiece in his native Vienna, or to his sparkling, off-kilter incineration plant in Osaka, Japan, his revolutionary aesthetic tends not to disappoint. Trees are considered tenants and grow out of their own windows. Flat floors are forbidden; an uneven walking surface is ''a melody to the feet.'' Residents can lean out of their windows and paint anything within arm's reach. The roof? A minor wilderness. 
 Starting this weekend Americans can get a taste of that aesthetic when the Quixote Winery in Napa Valley, the only Hundertwasser building in the country, finally opens to the public. Another place to swirl a glass in Northern California would scarcely be news, but this is not just another place. Tucked up in the golden hills, away from the stately villas and incongruously ornate mansions, sits what might seem the creation of a beautifully demented child. 
''People either love it or they think it's the nuttiest thing they've ever seen,'' says Carl Doumani, owner of the Quixote and the man responsible for bringing Hundertwasser's vision to California. ''But I watch them coming up the path, and I can see them smiling. And that's the whole idea.''
 Or at least much of the idea. The whimsy of a Hundertwasser building belies a strident philosophy of ecology and personal freedom. Born in Vienna in 1928, Hundertwasser began exploring these themes as a painter in the late 1940s. It wasn't until the 80s that, as an influential artist and thinker, he began bringing his revolutionary notions to life in architectural form. He lived his later years in New Zealand, where he died in 2000 at 71. He was buried under a tulip tree. Just a handful of buildings had been built.
 If ''the straight line is godless,'' as Hundertwasser famously said, the Quixote is a megachurch. Floors curve and roll. Trees rise from the 30 inches of soil covering the roof. No two windows are alike. Found material and assorted organic forms cover the surfaces. Outside, starlings nest atop the majestic dome over Mr. Doumani's office. (Where they proceed to sully the German gold leaf, he likes to point out, ''Birds have absolutely no respect for Hundertwasser.'')
 With the Quixote as with Hundertwasser's entire oeuvre, the aim is to show us that our structures, and by extension our lives, needn't fit so tidily on the grid nor exist so far afield from nature. When Mr. Doumani, founder of the Stags' Leap Winery, began considering designs for a second, smaller operation in 1988, he didn't have this concept in mind. Then, while sitting in the office of a San Francisco architect one day, he spotted a calendar of Hundertwasser's prints.
 ''You know,'' he recalls saying, ''this is more what I'm looking for.''
 Mr. Doumani tracked Hundertwasser down that summer and arranged to meet him in Vienna. What he found was an activist as much as an artist, his causes ranging from public transportation to public toilets in New Zealand, license-plate beautification to peace in the Middle East. 
 He was, as the artist's manager, Joram Harel, put it, ''a completely free person.'' He had given himself a new name. He was born Friedrich Stowasser -- Friedensreich translates as ''liberty kingdom,'' Hundertwasser as ''hundred waters'' -- and later tacked on Regentag, or ''rainy day,'' for good measure. He had delivered lectures in the nude. He had spent several years on a 60-year-old wooden freighter he had purchased in Sicily. He lived on mush made from 100-pound sacks of wheat. 
 Mr. Doumani, himself one of Napa's freer souls, took to him instantly.
 The two began discussing what the winery might look like, and the job was under way. Since Hundertwasser lacked formal training, an architect in Vienna helped coordinate plans with another in Napa. (Hundertwasser's initial suggestion of burying the whole thing underground did not go far. ''This is California,'' Mr. Doumani told him. ''We have sunshine, we like to be outside.'') 
 In the years to follow Hundertwasser and Mr. Doumani each crossed the ocean to see the other four or five times, in addition to sending numerous notes and revisions by mail. The job, executed somewhat sporadically, took almost a decade, and in 1999 Quixote produced its first vintage.
 Mr. Doumani says he has since long since lost track of what the entire project cost. ''Certainly twice as much as a regular winery,'' he's willing to guess. Nothing was simple.
 He recalls trying to find a craftsman who could produce Hundertwasser's trademark tile columns, which in shape and color resemble giant necklace beads. Nobody in the United States could meet the specifications because the lead paint that gave his colors their earthiness was prohibited. Mr. Doumani's search took him to Germany, where he at last found someone to do the job. The designs were sent off, the elaborate columns were built and shipped, and, miraculously, the fragile creations arrived intact. Mr. Doumani installed them and proudly showed them off at Hundertwasser's next visit. 
 Hundertwasser promptly picked up a hammer, stepped up to the nearest column and shattered it. Doumani's jaw hung at roughly knee level.
 ''If they don't see we use broken materials, they'll never know,'' Hundertwasser said. The hammer would later go to work on a few of the floor tiles too. 
 While Hundertwasser's creations grew out of precise theories -- that mechanization was killing modern homes, for instance -- he specialized in buildings that didn't require a degree in architecture to appreciate. It generally helped not to have one. 
 ''Architects hated his buildings,'' said Nicholas de Monchaux, assistant professor of architecture at the University of California, Berkeley, whose work focuses on the intersection of ecology and design. ''They were preoccupied with function and urban redevelopment'' in the 1980s, he added. ''Furry, dirty buildings don't fit into that.''
 Reinforcing that disdain was the impression that Hundertwasser was a kitsch populist (he took issue with those who belittled the so-called low desires of the people), a flouter of popular Modernist ideals (he likened conformity within the movement to slavery) and an unschooled interloper.
 ''The critics said, 'This is not architecture, this is a three-dimensional manifesto,' '' Mr. Harel said. ''Well, Hundertwasser agreed. He just wanted to show that the soul perishes in all these traditional buildings, and it's especially dangerous because you don't feel it happening. He felt the hidden longing of people to live differently.''
 His efforts to make these points occasionally misfired. In 1982 Hundertwasser found himself speaking in the San Francisco offices of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, one of America's largest architecture firms. Illustrating a point about how tenants should be free to leave their own mark on their dwellings, he grabbed a knife and began carving a design on the nearest wall. His point was not appreciated, and he later received a sizable bill for the damaged plaster. 
 (Mr. Doumani insists architects even threw food at him during one of his lectures, but Mr. Harel disputes that: ''Who brings food to a lecture?'')
 Meanwhile the public -- in Europe, anyway -- couldn't get enough. But Hundertwasser shunned the praise, insisting he was a dilettante and not an architect. ''I'm not good,'' Mr. Harel recalls him saying. ''It's just that the others are so bad.'' 
 He was rebuked mercilessly for suggesting that architects should put their egos aside and work instead to coax out their clients' personal visions. He was equally emphatic about drawing out the creativity of the laborers on his projects, Mr. Doumani said.
 He continued: ''The genius of the guy is, he brings the craftsmen into the process. He always asks, 'What would you do here?' And they'd be proud of their choices. On weekends the carpenters, tile guys and plasterers working on the job -- they'd be here with their wives or girlfriends, showing them what they're working on.''
 The Quixote, which recently received a land-use permit allowing visitors, isn't likely to see the million or so visitors that the Hundertwasserhaus, his Vienna public housing project, receives each year. The winery is considerably smaller and lacks the social resonance. More environmentally sophisticated architecture can certainly be found. Still, after viewing any of his creations, one tends to wonder why more buildings don't look like this.
 ''Builders will tell you it costs too much, but they're just looking at its up-front costs,'' said Harry Rand, senior curator of cultural history at the Smithsonian Institution and author of ''Hundertwasser,'' a biography and consideration of the artist's work. ''A Hundertwasser-type building is built with an indefinite lifetime.'' 
 Mr. Rand also asserts that the contentment of such a building's residents translates to other economic benefits. Tenants of the Vienna housing project get sick less often, and their children perform better in school, he says.
 Mr. de Monchaux, the Berkeley professor, contends that contemporary architecture has taken steps toward Hundertwasser-like irreverence. With the digital manufacturing of architectural components and computer-controlled steel-bending machines, wacky shapes are suddenly possible, he said. 
 Still, he concedes this isn't quite what Hundertwasser was agitating for. His enthusiasm for rounded and irregular forms grew out of a desire to connect with nature and to tease out the natural creativity of builders and dwellers.
 Teasing it out of a computer might well have him rolling over under his tulip tree.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three views of the Quixote Winery in California's Napa Valley. Designed by Friedensreich Hundertwasser, it has been producing wine since 1999 but is opening to the public for the first time this weekend. (Photographs by Peter Menzel)
Near right, a Hundertwasser apartment building in Essen, Germany, used for relatives of children being treated at a nearby hospital
far right, a Hundertwasser in Magdeburg, Germany, next to an art museum. (Photo by Volker Hartmann/Agence France Presse -- Getty Images)
 (Photo by Ronny Hartmann/Agence France Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%) Architecture; Alcoholic Beverages; Wines

ORGANIZATION: Quixote Winery (Napa Valley, Calif) 

PERSON: Chris Colin; Friedensreich Hundertwasser; Carl Doumani

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACHSEN-ANHALT, GERMANY (51%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (90%); GERMANY (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Napa Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



221 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: If Four Years Is an Eternity, Maybe Start With Two

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Q. Your child, who is in high school, says she doesn't want to go to college. What can you do to change her mind, or should you even try?A. That is an expensive question. The cost of a four-year college education can be $50,000 and above at a public university and $100,000 and above at a private one. To send a child to college, only to discover that it wasn't what she needed in order to thrive, would be costly indeed. But to forgo college could mean huge losses in future earnings, not to mention the missed opportunity for intellectual and personal fulfillment.
 People with more education tend to ''have more opportunities, meet interesting people and have more options in life,'' said Sandy Baum, senior policy analyst at the nonprofit College Board. That is why borrowing toward college generally ends up being a good investment, she said. 
But college is not for everyone. In what is surely a sign that some children go to college mostly because their parents pressure them into it, more than half of those who start a four-year degree program have not finished it five years later. Q. How many jobs actually demand a college degree?A. Only about a quarter of all jobs in the United States require a four-year degree, and jobs are plentiful for people who have completed only high school. The problem is, they are generally lower-paying jobs, noted Roger Moncarz, a supervisory economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. As a rule, ''the high school diploma by itself will not suffice'' for the job seeker who wants a high salary, he said. 
 A study by the bureau showed that in 2005, median weekly earnings climbed steadily along with education levels. For a high school graduate, the weekly median salary was $583 a week, compared with $937 for someone with a bachelor's degree. A look at those hard numbers might be enough to push a recalcitrant child into college.Q. Which types of high-paying jobs do not require a four-year degree?A. Jobs in general -- and the higher-paying ones, particularly -- are becoming much more complex and technical. That means that some kind of training is essential, but it does not have to last four years. 
 A child who sees four years as an eternity might consider entering a more manageable two-year program at a technical or community college -- and might even decide at some point to transfer to a bachelor's program. The labor bureau data shows that people who received a two-year associate's degree made more money than those who dropped out of a four-year college. 
 For new workers without bachelor's degrees, careers that show the most promise include those in construction, maintenance and repair, health care, computers, science, engineering, and policing and other security work, according to the bureau. 
 Earning a two-year associate's degree in such a field can be an excellent way to obtain a higher-paying job. Apprentice programs in areas like plumbing, electricity and welding are another route. In some cases, on-the-job training or some type of certification can be enough to land a well-paid position.
 In one example, electrical and electronic engineering technicians had median annual earnings of about $46,000 in 2004, according to the bureau's data. Twenty-eight percent of people in those jobs had a high school diploma or less, 54 percent had an associate's degree or some college, and 18 percent had a bachelor's degree.Q. If a person wants to become truly wealthy, is it best to go to college?A. In the sense that it may open more doors, yes. But someone with a focused entrepreneurial vision may not need it. Bill Gates, Steven P. Jobs and Michael S. Dell all dropped out of college and went on to reach pinnacles of business success. 
 In her new book, ''Real World Careers: Why College Is Not the Only Path to Becoming Rich'' (Warner Business Books), Betsy Cummings argues that an expanding job market, combined with the coming retirement of tens of millions of baby boomers, will cause employers to look much more at skills and abilities than at educational level as they face a shortage of workers. Q. How can your child find out which career and educational route is best for her?A. More high schools and even junior high schools are offering career exploration programs. Self-assessments, many of them available online -- sites include careervoyages.com and bridges.com -- can help students determine what types of work and working environments they prefer. They may include questions like these: Do you prefer working indoors or outdoors? With other people or alone? 
 Learn what your child is most curious and passionate about, said Ross Arnold, coordinator for the Los Angeles County Regional Occupational Program. Identify the jobs that are available in those areas, then determine the required education level, he said.
 Even after all that, some young people may still have no idea what they want to do. If they have a strong aversion to college, a year off -- to work or volunteer or travel the world -- may be the best way for them to get to know themselves and understand what they want to do with their lives.Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)Chart: ''Cash In On That Degree''The more education you have, the more money you can earn. But how much is that degree really worth?MEDIAN WEEKLY EARNINGS, 2005$1,421: $1Doctorate,370: Professional $1degree,129: Master's$937: Bachelor's$699: Associate's degree$653: Some college, no degree$583: High school diploma$409: Some high school education, but no diploma(Source by Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); STATISTICS (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%) Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: Phyllis Korkki

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



222 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 6701 words

HEADLINE: Fugitive

BYLINE: By Jim Dwyer. 
Jim Dwyer, a reporter for The Times, is the author, with Kevin Flynn, of '102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers.''

 BODY:
Orlando.'
 In a dim, nearly deserted Everglades farm stand, nothing moved.
Orlando Boquete, hybrid of youth and age -- his body springy and athletic at 52, but knitted to a startlingly ancient head -- peered at the stalls through thick eyeglasses. 
 Other than a faint buzz, the shimmer of heat trapped in a tin roof, the word ''Orlando'' was the only sound.
 An impatient companion called to him.
 ''Orlando. Hey, Orlando.'' 
 Not a flicker, head to toe. For more than a decade, Orlando Boquete lived as a fugitive, his very identity a shackle he slipped out of, again and again. He hid bits of sandpaper in his wallet so that in a pinch, he could abrade his fingerprints. Every bit as revealing as the ridges of his fingers, the ordinary, reflexive responses to his own name -- a grunt, a sideways glance, a shifting foot -- also vanished under the grind of fugitive life. It was as if someone had suddenly clapped hands in front of his eyes and he did not blink. Standing still, not saying yes or hello or uh-huh became a martial art. 
 The word ''Orlando'' floated in the thick, steaming air, then sank without trace into the wizened face. 
 Technically, he was no longer running from anyone, so this denial was vestigial habit. He could say who he was. He lifted a mango, rolled the fruit in the palm of his hand, half-smiled and turned to greet the man behind the counter. He announced that he was Cuban. Then he asked a question.
 ''Es Mejicano?'' 
 The fruit man nodded, yes, he was Mexican.
 At that, the words erupted from Boquete's mouth, personal history as volcanic rush.
 ''These Mexicans in the sugar-cane fields helped me,'' he began. ''Twenty-one years ago, when I escaped from Glades, I hid with them. Right here, by choo-choo.''
 He pointed toward the railroad tracks, but the fruit-stand man did not shift his blank gaze. It was almost possible to see him rewind to the phrase ''when I escaped from Glades.''
 On the way into the town of Belle Glade, the welcome sign in this capital of sugar cane declares, ''Her Soil Is Her Fortune,'' but another gravitational force goes unmentioned: Glades Correctional Institution, the state prison one mile down the road. The prison had brought Orlando Boquete to Belle Glade, but it could not keep him there. 
 He started speaking in gusts of alternating language, Spanish one sentence, English the next phrase, a saga of life in flight -- of hiding places in the sugar cane, disguises that tricked the police, gratitude to the Mexicans who helped him.
 Fugitivo.
 The fruit man did not bother to mask his anxiety. As he listened to Boquete, he slid the mango off the counter, with no sign that he was going to bag the purchases of this garrulous criminal. Boquete realized he should present his bona fides. He turned and pointed to me -- here, this white newspaper writer from New York has come to look at the canals where he hid with alligators, the mucky fields where he crawled like a snake. 
 ''I don't read newspapers,'' the fruit man said blankly. 
 At Boquete's shoulder, his nephew, Jose Boquete, spoke into his ear. 
 ''Tio,'' he said. And he stage-whispered into his uncle's ear, ''DNA.'' Not missing a beat, the older man spoke the word ''exonerated'' and the abbreviation DNA and finally, three more letters that registered with the fruit man. 
 ''CNN,'' Boquete said. 
 ''Ahh,'' said the fruit man, who pointed to the television in the fruit stand, reciting the shards of the tale that lodged in his memory. A Cubano broke out of Glades Correctional. He ran for years. Then he was caught. And finally, he was proved innocent. There must be more to the story, but it was enough for the fruit man. He pushed the mango across the counter. On the house. Boquete protested. The fruit man insisted.
 By Feb. 6, 1985, the night he fled prison, Orlando Boquete, 30 years old, had already spent two years behind bars for a sexual assault and burglary he had nothing to do with, the victim of a victim who mistook him for the man who climbed in her window. Ahead of him, as far as the eye could see, were mountains of time: five decades. 
 He bolted. 
 Of the 194 people exonerated by DNA tests since 1989, only Orlando Boquete undid society's mistake by fleeing. And he kept undoing it: over the next decade, he was in police custody again and again, only to vanish in a forest of identities that were false, borrowed and stolen. His prison break was the start of a decadelong journey of near-disaster and daring inches, with no money, no home, no name -- but with good looks, charm and a quick mind. Craving family and a bed to call his own, Boquete instead found refuge in an underworld of outlaws. ''I did certain things that I had to do,'' he said. ''To survive. But I never, never harmed anyone.''
 He would appear at family gatherings, enchanting the children in stolen moments when he again became, without worry, Orlando Boquete. Then he would quietly slip behind the mask of fugitive life. (A niece, Danay Rodriguez, remembers her parents coming home with a flier that showed her tio Orlando as one of the state's most wanted men -- a mistake, the grown-ups assured her.) He held dozens of jobs, legal and illegal; at times, he worked as legitimately as someone with a fake name could. Other times, he worked por la izquierda, on the left -- meaning, he said, under the table.
 He had always been good at running. Boquete (pronounced bo-KETT-eh) boarded a shrimp boat in the port of Mariel, Cuba, in 1980, when he was 25, leaving behind one son, two marriages, a career as a diesel mechanic in Havana and a jail record as a Cuban Army deserter -- this last credential essential, he believed, to helping him clear bureaucratic hurdles for departing Cuba. He joined 125,000 Cubans, known as Marielitos, who formed an extraordinary exodus that year, when Fidel Castro felt pressure from a poor economy and allowed them to leave. 
 For two years, Boquete led a life that was pretty much on the level. He worked construction, then in Cafeteria La Palma in Miami's Little Havana and later as clerk in a convenience store on the midnight-to-dawn, no-one-else-will-do-it, armed-robbery shift. By June 1982, Boquete was living with an uncle in a trailer in Key West, hoping for work as a commercial fisherman along the archipelago. 
 On June 25, with the summer heat at full blast, he had a cousin shave his head of thick black hair, leaving only a mustache. That night, various Boquetes later testified, they sat in the trailer, watching baseball and the World Cup from Spain. Afterward, they strolled to a Tom Thumb convenience store for cigarettes and beer. As they approached, police officers asked them to wait in the parking lot. Another police car pulled up. Inside was a woman who had awoken from a sound sleep in her bed in the Stock Island apartments, a few blocks away, to find a man on top of her. He ejaculated on her bedclothes. He had no hair on his face, she said, and a buzz cut on his head. Another man lurked in the apartment with him, she said, but had not taken part in the assault. They grabbed a few items and left. 
 From the police car, the victim saw Orlando Boquete and told the officer, ''That's him.'' Although he had a prominent mustache, he was the only person in the vicinity with a shaved head. That single glimpse shaped Boquete's life for decades.
 Before trial, the prosecutors offered him a deal: plead guilty and give evidence against the other man who had broken into the apartment, and he would have to serve only one year in jail, followed by two years probation. 
 On the witness stand, Boquete explained why he had declined. ''If my freedom depends on my falsely stating that I'm a culprit or guilty,'' he said, ''I would rather go to jail. I'm conscious of the fact that if the gentlemen of the jury and the ladies of the jury, if they vote against me, they are going to destroy my life, and I'm not afraid to stand here.'' 
 Besides the alibi provided by his cousins and uncle, the defense seemed to hold one other card. A second man, Pablo Cazola, was arrested for the attack and pleaded guilty. He also signed an affidavit stating that Boquete was not his accomplice. But he refused to testify at trial. At the time, DNA testing -- the ultimate proof of identity -- had not yet been used in court. So the jury was left to weigh the eyewitness identification of a very confident victim, on the one hand, against the alibi of Boquete and his relatives, all of whom testified he had spent an evening watching television and drinking beer.
 It was January 1983, a particularly poor moment for a Marielito accused of a violent crime; there had been many fevered stories about their supposed rampant criminality. Convicted after brief deliberation, Boquete was sentenced to 50 years for the burglary and another five years for attempted sexual battery. The case was over and, so it seemed, was the life Orlando Boquete had sought in America. He was 28 years old. 
 He moved into the custody of the Florida Department of Corrections with one treasured possession, he told me, passed along by an inmate he met in the county jail: a Spanish-language edition of ''Papillon,'' the prison memoir that became a movie starring Steve McQueen and Dustin Hoffman. It is the account of Henri Charriere, who wrote -- perhaps accurately, though some scholars are skeptical -- of his many escapes from French penal colonies over the years. 
 ''This is a real book,'' Boquete told me. ''He gives to you power. Esperanza. Hope.''
 He set about adapting Charriere's lessons to his own life, finding principles and tactics that could transfer from penal colonies of the 1930s to a state prison in Florida in the mid-1980s. On one occasion, Charriere was undone by an informant. The lessons, by Boquete's light: study and silence. ''Be patient if you want to escape from somewhere,'' Boquete said. ''You have to be observant. Don't run your mouth.'' 
 He studied the terrain. Two fences ran around Glades Correctional. The first was short, easily scalable. Between it and the second was a strip of boundary area, about 10 feet wide, mined with pressure detectors. A footstep would set off alarms. Beyond the boundary was the second fence, about 15 feet, with curls of razor wire running along the ledge. Guards watched from towers, but the pursuit of escapees was left to officers who circled the perimeter in a van, on a road just beyond the outer fence. 
 A natural, compact athlete, Boquete ran every day, processing the details of prison life. Inmates occasionally were taken by a shotgun squad to work in sugar-cane fields near the prison. On one such excursion, Boquete saw a swampy irrigation canal, about 300 yards beyond the outer wall. It served as a moat, complete with resident snakes and alligators. This gave him pause. ''Alligators have territory,'' he explained. ''If they have babies over there, and you go there, you're in trouble.'' 
 He made a pinpoint search for useful, secret-worthy inmates and found one man from the town of Belle Glade, who agreed to map the roads and landmarks. He was staked $30 by a Colombian inmate with ties to organized crime.
 Charriere wrote in ''Papillon'' of the ocean waters around Devil's Island, noting that every seventh wave slapped against the shore with greater strength than the ones that came before or after. Ultimately, he marshaled the power of a seventh wave to get clear of the island. At Glades, Boquete timed the orbit of the van, to see how long he would have from the moment he triggered the ground alarms until his pursuers could get back to him. About a minute, he figured.
 In ''The Fugitive,'' a movie starring Harrison Ford, an innocent man on his way to death row seizes a chance to run for his life. In the unyielding reality of prison, innocent people often do the precise opposite of running. They dig in their heels. Many go before parole boards and refuse to apologize for ''their'' crimes, unwilling to offer themselves as exemplars of how the penitentiary really is a place of penance. In Pyrrhic glory, these innocent people prolong their incarceration by refusing to fake remorse for things they did not do, while the guilty quickly learn that the carrot of parole awaits those who muster the necessary show of contrition. 
 Even if Boquete had been willing to profess regret for something he had not done, parole was years away. Still, running would inevitably land him in a purgatory of deception and evasion. Moreover, the law does not permit innocent people to flee prison any more than it permits them to resist arrest. The guards would be armed and ready to shoot.
 ''I know that can happen,'' he reflected years later. ''I don't care. If they kill me, anyway, I'm gone. I finish my sentence. I was ready, physically, mentally, spiritually. I don't be scared about nothing when I escaped. Only a little scared of alligators.'' 
 The evening of Feb. 6, 1985, was miserable, wet and cold. Perfect. ''Nobody likes to jump in the cold water,'' Boquete said of the guards. ''Nobody wants to stay in the sugar-cane fields in the cold weather. The cold weather makes their job more difficult.''
 Just before 8 p.m., as he sorted carrots on an assembly line, he caught the eye of George Wright, a 29-year-old man serving 75 years for robbery. Boquete said they had joined forces while jogging in the yard; Wright, who is back in prison and due to be paroled next month, has a somewhat different version of events but declined, through a relative, to be interviewed.
 They slipped outside, unnoticed, and walked past the prison's construction warehouse. They grabbed a door frame someone had left out for them to use in scaling the two fences, Boquete said, then pulled the frame with them over the first fence. Now they were on the pressure-alarmed land. The 60-second clock started running. They propped the frame against the tall fence, then scrambled up to the barbed wire summit. Boquete, who stands 5-foot-4, went first. He briefly got in the way of the 6-foot-4 Wright, who simply brushed past him. 
 Once they hit the ground outside, they sprinted to the wide, swampy irrigation canal. They paused, caught their breaths. In the distance, they could hear the dogs. Boquete had steeled himself for this moment, but in his heart, had hoped that perhaps he would not have to get into the water. The advance of the dogs convinced him. They had no choice. They plunged ahead and never saw each other again.
 Soon, the baying of the hounds was joined by another sound: the beat of helicopter rotors. Boquete immersed himself, surfacing his nose for a gulp of air, seeing beams of a searchlight sweeping across the fields and water. The dogs barked. He had no religious upbringing but wore a crucifix on a chain around his neck, and he put the cross in his mouth to calm himself. 
 He later guessed that he had been in the water two hours or so, most of it fully submerged, when he finally pulled himself, shivering, onto the bank of the canal. He crawled on his belly into a field, then dug a shallow burrow with his hands. He dropped into the hollow and covered himself with dirt and grass. He could hear his pursuers shout. He tried to lie still. 
 Something pinched his face. Then one arm. Thousands of biting ants, resident in his hideout, swarmed over his skin. He shielded his eyes with his hands, and listened as the clatter of the search receded. Finally Boquete climbed out of the canal on the same bank that he went in, the prison side of the moat. His pursuers expanded their search but he had hardly gone any distance. As they moved on, he oriented himself, then half-crawled to an orange grove. He ate five oranges, slumped under a tree, ant-bitten, filthy, exhausted. He was quite happy. This grove was near railroad tracks, a less conspicuous route than the main road. The next stop was a sugar-cane field. There, he dug another hole, and after checking for ants, covered himself and slept. 
 At daylight, he moved like a snake, belly-crawling short distances, cringing when the cane rustled or popped, then pausing to listen. With a small knife he peeled bits of the cane to eat. 
 He was running for his life, but barely moving. After his second night in the fields, he saw farm workers nearby and realized he had lingered near the prison long enough. He crossed four more canals, the last so wide that he worried he would not make it to the other side. Finally, he reached the railroad tracks, picked up a stick and, bent like a hobo, followed the rails southwest toward Belle Glade. 
 By late afternoon, he had emerged from the apron of farmland on the prison outskirts and came to Avenue L. Across the road, big trucks were lined up, leaving for everywhere; the map had shown a depot. In the escape of his imagination, he simply hopped a truck; as a tireless runner in the prison yard, he had not foreseen the toll of a slow-motion sprint. He was spent. 
 Just east of the tracks was a pay phone. Surely, the authorities would be checking with all the relatives who had visited him. He dialed a cousin in Miami. She was shocked to hear his news; the family knew nothing of his escape. He proposed that she pick him up. 
 She hesitated.
 ''No, mi primo, no,'' she said. No, my cousin, no.
 He would stay clear, he told her; she should not worry, he said. ''No se preocupe.''
 He hung up. 
 Just beyond the pay phone, a few Mexican migrants idled in front of shacks. The Belle Glade man had told him he might be able to take refuge with them.
 It was two full days since he had escaped from Glades Correctional Institution; he had risked getting maimed on razor wire, shot by guards, mauled by dogs, eaten by alligators, poisoned by snakes. It had taken every ounce of strength in his fleet, 30-year-old body to avoid those fates, and he had covered all of 1.2 miles. He was transformed: the innocent person, wrongly accused, now was an outlaw who could be shot on sight. He didn't care.
 ''Oye, hermanos,'' Boquete called. ''Necesito ayuda.''
 Hey brothers, I need help.
 The Mexicans looked at the bedraggled specimen. Then one of them spoke, Boquete recalled.
 ''He says, 'Why do you need help?' I said, 'I need help because I run from immigration.' ''
 A day later, one of them asked the logical question: why was a Cuban running from immigration, since Cubans were never deported?
 ''I tell them the truth. And they laugh, and said, 'Oh, that was you.' Because one of them got stopped the night I escaped. They heard the helicopters.''
 He worked in the fields for two months, picked up every morning in a truck. Had anyone been looking for the fugitive in the first few days, it is possible that his swollen face would have been hard to recognize. By springtime, he and the migrants decided to pool their earnings and head for Miami. They bought a car for $800. It was mid-April, about 10 weeks after the breakout. Somewhere, Boquete had acquired an Army uniform. Raw as Boquete's English was, the Mexicans had none. He would drive. 
 On the road south, a radiator hose burst. As Boquete patched it, a police car stopped. He spoke a phrase he had used often in the previous two years.
 ''Yes, officer?'' he said.
 What was going on, the cop wanted to know. Boquete explained about the radiator hose. ''Be careful,'' the officer advised. 
 He was. The Mexicans dropped him in Miami, near Little Havana.
 Though Boquete's escape was brave and harrowing, his flight does not particularly distinguish him. In the 1980s, the Florida prisons virtually leaked prisoners: 972 prisoners broke out the year Boquete ran, 1,234 the next year and 1,640 the year after. Most walked away from work crews. Prisoners also left in file cabinets, garbage trucks, dressed as women. From Glades, six murderers dug a tunnel from a chapel, a spectacular breakout that roused alarm and moved state officials to clamp down. The trick was not just getting out but staying out. After the initial burst of excited hunting around a prison, the pursuit of fugitives can be anemic; the search for Boquete and Wright lasted four hours. Prisoners are less often caught than found, unable to sustain endless caution in their affairs. Somewhere, they trip a bureaucratic circuit -- they use or respond to their real name, are arrested for crimes much like those that brought them to prison or are bartered by someone else trying to get out of trouble. George Wright, who escaped with Boquete, avoided the authorities for a year and a half, then was caught in the Pacific Northwest. 
 Boquete turned himself into a hermit crab, sheltered in identities abandoned or left by the dead, an endless scuttle. A resume, pieced together from his memories and public records, traces a route of dizzying turns and determination.
 He worked in sugar-cane fields and danced in the Orange Bowl when Madonna came to perform ''La Isla Bonita.'' He hauled food in the Florida Keys as a truck loader and sledgehammered into the wall of a clothing store in Miami as a burglar. 
 He learned to ride a Jet Ski. He taught nieces and nephews to snorkel. He washed dishes in a New Jersey restaurant and ran errands for players in the underground economy of South Florida. One night, with cash in his pocket, he settled at the bar of a fancy hotel in North Miami and proclaimed that he was a boxing trainer who had just won a big bet on a Hector Camacho fight. He bought rounds of drinks for the house and met a real-estate woman from New York. They jogged together on the beach. 
 All those years, he walked barefoot along a borderline as thin and treacherous as the blade of a knife, the boundary between tension and exhilaration, where freedom was just one unguarded moment -- Hey, Orlando! Oye, Boquete! -- from vanishing. 
 He called himself Antonio and Eddie and Hilberto, dead or missing people whose Social Security numbers kept a pulse for a year or so after their demise. A half-dozen times, Boquete said, he was arrested while a fugitive: some of his benefactors left unfinished court business when they departed, and Boquete inherited their petty troubles: drunk-and-disorderly summonses, driving under the influence. He did a week here, 30 days there, he said. He also got into trouble of his own devising. 
 Rolling his freshly sanded fingertips into police ink pads, he was not connected by the authorities to the man who owed five decades of time to the state. It was simple enough for him to do the short bits, not that he had much choice. In the early days of a six-month sentence, he simply walked away from a jail work crew, making him a fugitive under two identities. 
 He agreed to take me back over some of the territory he had covered. We traveled through 300 miles of southern Florida, hunting for traces of the self he had worked to keep invisible.
 After his Mexican patrons dropped him off in Miami, he returned to Little Havana, a place he knew well. On one of his first days back, with nothing in his pockets, he followed an acquaintance to a utility room in an apartment complex. Someone was using the space to hoard stolen goods, and they found a boom box with detachable speakers. They sold it in three parts. He found a room in an apartment on Northwest Seventh Avenue and took a job at a grocery store, and anywhere else he could find work with no unanswerable questions asked. 
 The 1980s were years of staggering opportunity and danger in that part of the world. South Florida was the loading ramp for the illegal-narcotics trade in the United States. The Miami River runs through Little Havana. ''Lots of boats,'' Boquete said. ''Lots of drugs.'' Some had been handled by a woman he knew as a child in Cuba. Around 1987, she was caught in a federal drug case and was being held in central Florida. She sent word back to Little Havana that she needed clothing, cigarettes and money. Boquete said he went along for the ride to prison, but others in the car balked at going inside, so he did. ''I told the guard that everyone else was afraid to see her, I don't have ID, but I am her cousin,'' Boquete said. ''They took the clothes.'' He relished the audacity of that visit. From the first moments of his escape, when he doubled back toward the prison, hiding in plain sight had proved both tactically shrewd and psychically satisfying. 
 One of the people who helped him get by -- the man who led Boquete to the boom box on his first day back -- went on to prosper in the drug trade. On the condition that he be identified only as Ulises because of his own legal problems, the man spoke with wonder at Boquete's stamina, the new homes every few weeks. ''He was not really involved in our group,'' Ulises told me. Still, there were many groups and plenty of mundane, if risky, work.
 ''This guy, Kiki, asked me to hold a package for this guy who would come to my apartment that night,'' Boquete said, recalling one incident. Though he did not open it, he guessed that it was a kilogram of cocaine. That evening he heard a car pull up. From the window, he saw a uniformed police officer. In a panic, Boquete dialed his contact. ''I tell him, 'The police are here!' '' he said. ''He said, 'That's right, just give him the package.' ''
 Even innocent moments could turn harrowing. One night, he stayed at a friend's apartment after a party. In the morning, he washed dishes with the front door open. A figure appeared in the corner of his eye.
 ''Hey, Boquete!'' said the man. 
 Boquete did not lift his gaze from the suds. The man -- a uniformed police officer -- stood in the doorway calling his name, and finally, Boquete asked what he wanted. A team of officers was on the scene, apparently tipped off to the presence of a fugitive. In a few minutes, all the Mexicans and Cubans in the building were lined up outside. 
 ''If you're looking for this Boquete, why don't you bring a picture of him?'' Boquete said he demanded. 
 Another man grumbled loudly about suing for some indeterminate civil rights violation, Boquete recalled, and the officers eventually withdrew.
 The encounter rattled him. To find some peace, he flew to Illinois in 1990 and got work in a Weber grill factory. He called himself Antonio Orlando Moralez, a real Marielito who was killed while Boquete was in prison. (The company, Weber-Stephen, does not have payroll records from that time and could not confirm his employment.) A cousin of Moralez's, who did not want to be named because of immigration concerns, said of Boquete, ''He didn't do anything wrong, and he needed help, so I gave him my cousin's Social Security number for him to work under.'' 
 The change relaxed Boquete; he did not feel himself under direct police scrutiny. After a year or so, though, worried about how long the Moralez identity would hold up, he moved again, back to Miami for a while, and then to Arizona. It was 1991; he'd been on the run for six years. He was starting to wear down. He returned to Miami, apathetic about being recaptured. 
 ''I was hanging out on the street,'' he said, meaning his living came from activities outside the law. One day, he and two other men broke into a clothing store. As they drove off with the loot, a police car followed. They tried to speed away and heaved stolen clothes out of the car, but were quickly caught. In the back of the car was the sledgehammer they used to enter the store. Boquete gave his name as Eduardo Jeres, and a judge put him on probation. 
 At 37 years old, he had no checkbook, credit cards or bank accounts; he lived with his money, the cash hidden under the kitchen floor of an apartment on 27th Avenue. He welded bars on the windows and doors. 
 For all that caution, he had not broken out of one prison just to live in another. He often dropped in on his family, went swimming with the children and doted on Danay Rodriguez, his half-brother's daughter. ''He watched us when our parents went out,'' said Rodriguez, now 24, recalling that he would bring her the White Diamonds perfume she loved as a girl. To visit them was a heart splurge. They lived aboveground. He could not.
 In the summer of 1992, hungry for a quieter, more domestic life, he sent for a nephew, Jose Boquete, 12, then living in California, to stay with him in Miami while school was out. ''I love him from when he was a baby, when he first came from Cuba,'' Boquete said. He had a son back in Cuba, not much older. The family trusted him, Boquete said.
 For Jose, it was a thrilling summer. He made friends in the apartment complex. His uncle indulged him and charmed the neighbors. ''I made a best friend right away,'' Jose said. ''My uncle had these parties, just barbecues, and people came to hang out. It was the greatest.''
 One day in August, young Jose watched the canaries his uncle kept in a cage flapping their wings in agitation. The birds had detected the approach of Hurricane Andrew, soon to become the second-most-destructive storm in United States history. 
 ''I asked my uncle, 'What's happening?' He said, 'Don't worry about it, everything's O.K.,' '' Jose recalled. ''He just stayed there on the sofa.''
 Behind his barred door, Boquete was content, unwilling to fight a storm. Afterward, with electricity knocked out for days, he rigged a line from a car battery into the apartment and even scavenged contraband ice.
 At the summer's end, Jose returned to California. His uncle looked for work: the hurricane was a boon to the construction trades, and Boquete found odd jobs at a small company, Fantasy Cabinets, which had contracts with police stations and jails, said Mercy Fleitas, who ran the business with her husband, Serafin. 
 The Fleitas household knew Boquete as Loquito, the little crazy one, for the high-speed pace he kept at work and play. They did not realize that the wiry man was a fugitive. But Mercy Fleitas had a vivid memory of his anxiety about going into a correctional facility where they were doing work. And nearly 15 years later, hearing about his true identity and exoneration, Fleitas remembered a strong streak of decency. 
 ''You know what about him?'' she said. ''My husband's brother had died, and he couldn't do enough for the kids. He was always bringing them food.''
 His life was far from tranquil. Tipped off by a trailer-park neighbor that he was ''hot,'' Boquete drifted to North Carolina, settling in a rural area before returning again to Florida. At times, Boquete said, he craved to sleep with both eyes closed. To answer to his own name. Instead, over the next four years, he landed in police custody again and again. 
 In March 1995, acting on a tip about a wanted man, the police came to an apartment where Boquete was staying under the name Hilberto Rodriguez. A gun was found, and he was sentenced to a year. He was assigned to a work crew to clean up around apartments for the elderly across from the Orange Bowl. When he spotted a pay phone in front of the stadium, he could not resist. He called Ulises, the friend who met him when he first returned to Little Havana -- now a successful drug dealer -- and when Ulises pulled up in a van, Boquete dropped his rake and got in. 
 He stayed with Ulises and his wife in south Miami. Very early one morning in July 1995, Boquete left for his usual exercise routine in a local park: running and 600 sit-ups, beginning at 6 a.m., before the heat of the day. On the way, he was stopped by a drug-enforcement agent, who asked him if he lived there.
 No, he said, ''I'm just visiting for a few days from Key West.'' The agents searched the house and found two pounds of marijuana. Ulises was away, on a trip to New Orleans with a girlfriend. That left his wife to answer for the pot. Suddenly, Boquete's status as a fugitive took on a high value. She did not know his real name but knew that he was on the run. 
 As the officers sorted through his tangle of identities, they decided to process him as Hilberto Rodriguez, the fugitive who had walked away from the Orange Bowl work detail. 
 ''In the police station, the cops say, 'Let's go,' '' Boquete recalled. ''I am walking to the door. Then a lady sitting at a computer says: 'Hold on. Palm Beach has something on him, too.' '' The Glades prison was in the jurisdiction of Palm Beach County. After 10 1/2 years, his fingerprints were linked to Orlando Boquete. 
 Sentenced under the Hilberto Rodriguez pseudonym for escaping from the county jail, he was returned to the state prison system as Rodriguez, with ''Orlando Bosquete'' listed as an alias. 
 After years of running from his true identity, it would turn out that proving who he really was would not be bad at all for Orlando Boquete. That, however, took another decade.
 During the 1990s, many prosecutors in Florida, and elsewhere, fiercely resisted DNA testing for people already in prison. Such tests often poked embarrassing holes in the original investigations. After an innocent man died on death row -- the prosecutors opposed testing until the man, Frank Lee Smith, was terminally ill -- the State Legislature passed a law that explicitly permitted convicts to seek DNA testing, as long as they asked by Oct. 1, 2003. More than 800 prisoners wrote to the Innocence Project of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in New York, which set up the Florida Innocence Initiative to manage the requests. As the deadline approached, Nina Morrison of the Innocence Project sent forms to Boquete and others, so that they could start the process without an attorney. 
 With help from another inmate fluent in English, Boquete filed the paperwork. One day in the spring of 2006, Morrison called him: the test results proved he was not the man who had attacked the woman in Key West. He flushed his parole rejection papers down the toilet. Boquete now had a lawyer in Key West, Hal Schuhmacher, representing him, along with the Innocence Project's Morrison and Barry Scheck (with whom I wrote a book about wrongful convictions in 2000). 
 Last May 23, Boquete was delivered in shackles to the county courthouse in Marathon for a hearing. At his request, Morrison brought him a white jacket and pants, 30 waist, for his appearance. His family gathered in the courtroom. The moment swelled with uncommon forces: liberation, vindication, resurrection, humility. ''I could sit here and talk for as much time as anybody wanted to give me,'' the state's attorney, Mark Kohl, told the judge, ''but every minute that I spend talking to you is another minute that an innocent man sits in jail on this charge.''
 The judge, Richard Payne, made the same point. ''No words spoken by this court today . . . would do justice to the penalty that you have been required to pay for offenses that now we know conclusively that you were not guilty of committing,'' he said. ''You are hereby ordered to be immediately released from the custody of Florida.''
 The state had measured the system against the case of Boquete and recognized its failure. Still, that would not be the end. The federal government, through the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, also took its measure of Boquete. While he had been legally admitted to the United States in 1980, he had never completed the application to gain permanent status. So instead of being freed at the moment he was declared innocent, Boquete was taken in handcuffs by immigration agents to a federal detention center.
 Yes, Boquete was cleared of the 1982 case. But had he proved himself a menace to society while on the run? Faced with a large question, immigration authorities seemed to use a microscope to answer it. The burglary of the clothing store and a gun found where he had been staying were ''a concern with regard to his potential danger to the community,'' wrote Michael Rozes, the field office director for immigration enforcement in Miami. ''An escape for which he was eventually convicted, regardless of the fact that this conviction has since been overturned, shows your client's propensity toward absconding.'' 
 Prosecutors in two counties, Miami-Dade and Monroe, weighed in to urge that the immigration officials look beyond a rap sheet that, in Boquete's case, was singularly unilluminating.
 ''Public employees exist to serve the public,'' Mark Kohl wrote. ''If you cannot conclusively determine that he is a dangerous person, I urge you to release him at once so as to not compound the mistakes made 23 years ago.'' 
 Finally, immigration officials released Boquete on Aug. 21, only after he signed papers conceding that he could be deported for his crimes as a fugitive.
 That night, he ate two croquetas and drank a batido de mamey at a quiet dinner with family members, his immigration lawyer, John Pratt, and another innocent Florida man, Luis Diaz, who served 26 years. He corrected what he said were misspellings of his name in official records as Bosquette or Bosquete. The next morning, he went for a run on the beach at 6 a.m. Through Hal Schuhmacher, he got a job doing landscape work for two real-estate agents in the Florida Keys, Morgan Hill and Paula Nardone, who gave him a place to stay. Once a month, he makes a four-hour trek by bus and train from Marathon to Miami, to report to immigration. 
 A few weeks after his release, Boquete agreed to go with me on a trip back to the prison town of Belle Glade, along with his nephew Jose, now a musician living in Miami. In the prison parking lot, he squinted at the new buildings. He pointed out the perimeter road and the high fence. An officer told us to move.
 As we drove along Main Street in Belle Glade, he spotted Avenue L. ''Turn here, this is where I saw the Mexicans,'' he commanded. We got out. Not surprisingly, no one remembered an ant-eaten hobo who suddenly appeared on a winter day 21 years earlier.
 Yet here were the simple landmarks of his story. He darted along Avenue L, running from one spot to the next. The railroad tracks that he followed away from the prison. A square patch of ground of faintly different hue than the surrounding area. ''This is where the pay phone was,'' he shouted. He found the lot where he stayed with the Mexicans, but the migrants and their shacks were gone. In front of a deserted, sun-bleached wooden building, he said, ''I think this might have been where the trucks were.'' 
 Charged with memory, he looked back from age 52 on the 30-year-old who crawled out of canal waters and sugar cane to reclaim his life. The places were faded; the decades were mapped in the gullies and ravines that run through his face. 
 What if he had not gone out for beer on that June night in 1982, at the very moment the police were looking for the man with the buzz cut? 
 What would have come of his life?
 ''Oh,'' Boquete said. ''Oh. That's a real question. Too many beautiful things to do, I believe. Exactly what would have happened, I don't know. I believe I'd have gotten married, I'd have a little business, property, boat. I'm not talking only about material things. 
 ''Maybe I pass away already. I believe, if I am still alive, like I am now, I'd be much better. ''
 His words, while true, suddenly ring in his ears as impolitic. ''I've got people around me,'' he said, citing lawyers, benefactors, family. 
 Then he paused. ''In reality, I don't have nothing,'' he said. It has been 21 years since he last saw the spot where the railroad tracks met Avenue L-- the crossroads of his life, the point where he passed from captivity to, well, what? Did he know actual freedom on the run?
 ''Sometimes,'' he said, instantly. ''Sometimes. When I have a party, when I have made money, when I feel good, when I got a nice place. It doesn't have to be a nice place -- my own place. When I'm cold -- when the police don't look for me.
 ''I feel free many, many times. Why did I escape from prison? Because I want to be free. I want to feel free. I see the police, I don't be scared.''
 We turn back toward the car. Then we see it: a sign on the wall of the abandoned wood building, paint-dimmed, the words still legible. ''Glades Logistics, Truck Broker.'' All those years before, he might have jumped one of their trucks and gone wherever it took him. Instead, step by step, he made his own road, finally circling back. Orlando Boquete: walking, not running.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Crossroads Boquete retracing his path out of Glades Correctional Institution. (Photographs by Eugene Richards/VII, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR FARMING (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (78%); FINGERPRINTING (75%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (66%); PRISONS (63%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); ARRESTS (60%); DNA (59%) Sex Crimes; False Arrests, Convictions and Imprisonments; Robberies and Thefts; Prison Escapes; Dna (Deoxyribonucleic Acid)

PERSON: Orlando Boquete; Jim Dwyer

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



223 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Ford Edge; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: More Weighty Than Edgy

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
A DANGER with auto advertising -- like Ford ads that promise innovation and bold vehicles -- is that people might expect the creation of such vehicles.
 For Ford, one of those bold, innovative products was supposed to be the 2007 Edge crossover wagon, which went on sale in December after almost a year of public relations foreplay.
While pleasant and likable, the Edge is neither bold nor innovative, as those words are usually defined, though of course it is hard to stir consumer passion with a campaign that relies on adjectives like pleasant and likable. 
 A crossover looks like a sport utility, but is made with car-type components. While a crossover cannot handle traditional S.U.V. tasks like heavy-duty towing or rugged off-pavement travel, in theory it should have a smoother ride, better handling and higher gas mileage than a truck. 
 Crossovers emerged in the mid-1990s with vehicles like the Subaru Outback, Honda CR-V and Toyota RAV4. By 2000, about 4 percent of the vehicles sold in the United States were crossovers. That rose to 14 percent in 2006 and is likely to reach 19 percent by 2010, said Jeff Schuster, executive director for global forecasting at J. D. Power & Associates, the market research firm.
 Between now and the end of the decade crossovers are expected to show the most growth of any segment, Mr. Schuster said.
 Ford needs the Edge to succeed in that segment to prove that its latest comeback plan -- called the Way Forward -- is built on more than promises. That means dealing with some serious competitors, including the Toyota Highlander and Nissan Murano. 
 The Edge shares many parts with the 2007 Mazda CX-9, said Rich Kreder, vehicle development manager for the Edge and for a Lincoln model, the MKX, that is mechanically similar. Ford can use components from the CX-9, which goes on sale this month, because Mazda is part of Ford's worldwide family.
 The MKX, which is now in showrooms, is an even closer mechanical relative to the Edge. It will have more of a ''business-class environment,'' Mr. Kreder said, with a softer ride and a quieter cabin.
 Edge prices start at $25,995 for a front-wheel-drive model. The least-expensive all-wheel-drive version is $27,645, and a heavily optioned Edge can run to slightly more than $36,000. 
 That compares with a starting price of $28,400 for a front-drive Murano and $30,000 for the cheapest all-wheel-drive version. 
 The least-expensive Toyota Highlander with a V-6 is $26,585, and the least-expensive all-wheel-drive V-6 model is $27,985. Exact comparisons are tricky because of variations in standard equipment.
 I spent most of my time in an all-wheel-drive Edge SE with a sticker price of $27,645. It had enough standard equipment that a reasonable person could forgo any options.
 In lighter colors, the interior looks handsomely crisp. In darker trim it seems somewhat gloomy. But the controls are logical and easy to use and there are plenty of practical and functional touches, including a deep bin between the front seats.
 One problem with the test car, built before full production began, were reflections of the dashboard on the windshield, lending an exciting hint of mystery to forward visibility. Ford has changed the dashboard finish to reduce that problem.
 One interesting $1,395 option available only on the fancy SEL is a huge Panoramic Vista Roof, which is the Edge's let-there-be-lots-of-light show. A glass panel over the front seats opens and there's a fixed glass panel over the rear seat. Shades prevent undesired broiling.
 Even the least expensive Edge comes with life-saving equipment like an electronic stability control and side-curtain air bags. The stability control uses a computer to tell if the car is sliding in a direction at odds with what the driver wants. Then it tries to correct for the skid.
 Toyota also makes stability control standard on the Highlander. Nissan not only charges $750 extra, but requires another option package that alone costs $4,400. Nor can you get the stability system on the least-expensive Murano.
 The air-bag curtains that are standard on the Edge cover the front and rear side windows. Studies by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety have shown that such bags can save lives in side-impact crashes. Air curtains are also standard on the Highlander and Murano.
 Edges built beginning this month, which have new and improved head restraints, carry a ''top safety pick'' rating from the insurance institute. 
 The Edge and Murano have two rows of seats; a third row (designed for children) is available on the Highlander. The Edge can comfortably accommodate four 6-foot adults, or five in a pinch (literally).
 On battered streets, the fully independent suspension works well, parrying all but the worst impacts with a nearly plush feel. The body is solid.
 It is easy to design a soft but sloppy suspension. The engineering cleverness of the Edge's suspension becomes clear when you ask it to travel a challenging two-lane at more than a sedate pace. The steering, while not nearly as good as Ford's Focus, has enough weight and feel to please most drivers. Although 60 percent of its weight is up front, the Edge is not overly stubborn when asked to change direction and make a turn. 
 In a corner, even at only moderate speeds, the body leans a lot, which is part of the price you pay for the comfy ride on rough urban streets.
 Through turn after turn, the Edge never feels sloppy, but neither does it come across as sporty. Think of it as reassuring with a slight inclination toward playfulness.
 One factor that keeps the Edge from being an enthusiast's delight is its weight. It is a crossover fatso with a curb weight of almost 4,300 pounds with all-wheel drive -- hundreds of pounds more than its competitors. 
 While the brake pedal has a responsive feel, tests by Car and Driver magazine and Edmunds.com's Inside Line showed it took several car lengths longer than the Murano and Highlander to stop from highway speeds, a clear failure to deal with the curse of inertia.
 The standard Edge has front-wheel drive. On all-wheel-drive models the system is constantly engaged, and normally sends most of the power to the front wheels. But under hard acceleration, particularly from a stop, some power is automatically shifted to the rear to improve the launch. Almost all the power can also be sent rearward if the front tires begin to lose grip, Mr. Kreder, the development manager, said.
 The Edge's engine is a new aluminum 3.5-liter V-6 rated at 265 horsepower at 6,250 r.p.m. and 250 foot-pounds of torque at 4,500 r.p.m. 
 The transmission, a six-speed automatic developed by Ford and General Motors, makes its Ford family debut in the Edge and MKX. The E. P. A. estimates mileage at 17 m.p.g. in town and 24 on the highway. Ford recommends regular fuel. 
 So, is the Edge bold and innovative? Nope. But it is a well-rounded and satisfying vehicle with a competitive price and a list of standard safety features that shames the Murano.
 The Edge is a serious crossover competitor and while it won't have the competition in a panic, neither will they be able to safely ignore it. INSIDE TRACK: Advancing on the competition, but not way forward.Taurus Is Back, Rated X
 FORD won't be batting Five Hundred much longer. That large sedan will be reborn this summer with a new engine, some styling tweaks and a new but familiar name: the 2008 Taurus. Likewise, the Mercury Montego will become the Sable, and the Ford Freestyle crossover wagon, shown above, will be called the Taurus X.
 This will be the third name for the Freestyle, which was originally called the CrossTrainer (which sounded like an athletic bra to some officials).
 Ford's Lincoln division has also had second thoughts. Last year the Zephyr sedan suddenly became the MKZ, which was first pronounced ''Mark Z'' and then ''M-K-Z.''

GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''Midsize Wagons With a Touch of S.U.V.'' lists features and specifications for selected Midsize Wagons. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Christopher Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



224 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/69th Street and Park Avenue; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Union Club, Jaws Drop

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE site of the Union Club, which peers down from the crest of Lenox Hill at 69th Street and Park Avenue, is appropriate for an institution generally considered the cynosure of men's organizations in New York. 
 At the moment, the building is concealed by scaffolding, but the real showstopper is its inventive interior.
Organized in 1836, the Union is considered the first men's social club in New York, or at least the oldest. 
 The club was known as particularly conservative. According to the historian John Steele Gordon, a member of the club, it did not expel its Confederate members during the Civil War years. 
 Some members took exception to this and withdrew to found the Union League Club, now at 38th and Park. In the 1870s, other members, who thought the Union's standards of admission had fallen, went off to form the Knickerbocker Club, now at 62nd and Fifth Avenue. The Brook and Metropolitan Clubs were also offshoots. 
 In 1901, the Union built an ebullient limestone clubhouse at the northeast corner of 51st and Fifth. But, according to ''The Architecture of Delano & Aldrich'' (W. W. Norton, 2003) by Peter Pennoyer and Anne Walker, the members voted in 1927 to move uptown, to a quieter and less crowded location.
 They sold the 51st Street clubhouse, with an agreement giving them five years to move, and began a leisurely hunt for property that led to 69th and Park, the center of a concentration of mansions, even though apartment houses lined the rest of the street. 
 The club hired William Adams Delano and Chester Holmes Aldrich, who had already designed the Knickerbocker, the Brook and the Colony clubhouses.
 Mr. Delano's desire for a simple design was not shared by club members, Mr. Pennoyer and Ms. Walker note, citing a quotation from his memoirs: ''The Building Committee insisted on a good deal of ornament inside and out, which they were used to at the old club.''
 Thus, although the Knickerbocker Club is slim and elegant, the Union clubhouse, opened in 1933, is chunky with rusticated limestone and a huge angled mansard roof so big it looks like a Fifth Avenue mansion gone wild. 
 Nonmembers usually get no farther than the entry hall, but even there it is possible to see past the strange elliptical columns, up into the spectacular coffered dome of the main hall, which is in the form of a Greek cross. The room to the left, originally the lounge and writing room, runs the full width of the Park Avenue facade. 
 To the right is the card room, which displays Mr. Delano's witty and inventive decorative abilities at their peak, with a frieze of hearts, spades, diamonds and clubs running around the ceiling, and carved reliefs of face cards across the marble mantelpiece. 
 ''I had great fun in designing every detail -- all the electric light fixtures, mantels, ventilators, etc.,'' Mr. Delano wrote in his memoirs, which were published in 1950. The same spirit informs the frieze of flying fish on his Marine Air Terminal at La Guardia Airport. 
 The same spirit can be seen in the backgammon room, where the wall vents are patterned like backgammon boards, and in the library, whose light fixtures are shaped like the planet Saturn. The lounge off the squash courts is one of the astounding rooms in New York -- its patterned ceiling in gold, buff and green billows in like a festival tent. 
 The Pennoyer-Walker book has historic photographs of the building inside and out, but also sumptuous color photographs by Jonathan Wallen. (Many of them are accessible on Amazon.com, with the ''search inside'' function.) 
 In its December 1932 issue, Fortune magazine painted a picture of the club's 1,300 members as ''men who are, rather than men who do.'' This meant, above all, old families who did not need to strive, either professionally or economically, with surnames like Gallatin, Iselin, Pyne, Wilmerding, Goelet and Pell. 
 The Union clubhouse had five dining rooms, a humidor with 100,000 cigars, and, according to The Herald-Tribune, an early television set, a radio in each room and ''much modernistic decorative art.'' From a 1933 photograph of the library, it is possible to make out the title of only one magazine: Esquire. 
 By the 1950s, membership at urban social clubs was dwindling because of the continued movement of well-to-do families to the suburbs and the quickening pace of city life. The New York Times reported in 1954 that the Union was down to 950 members. Four years later, according to The Times, the Knickerbocker Club was considering an invitation to join its 550-man membership with the Union Club's 900 members, but the plan came to naught. 
 A 1969 article in The Times bore the slightly surprised headline ''Union Club Still There.'' The president, Edward C. Brewster, was quoted as saying, ''We want no salesmen here, nobody who pushes himself and barges in,'' adding, ''The Yale Club can absorb that kind, I suppose.'' Mr. Brewster had graduated from Yale in 1932, according to his Social Register listing. 
 Now the Union Club is spending nearly $1 million just on exterior repairs, rebuilding long sections of its limestone cornice. Bruce Popkin, an architectural conservator at Thornton Tomasetti, the engineering and architectural firm supervising the project, said that in the course of inspection, he noticed that a section of the stone cornice was cracked along the edge for most of its 300-plus feet. 
 He believes the crack was caused by an installation mistake, in which sheets of protective copper were simply nailed into the top of the cornice, a few inches in from the edge, starting a series of long horizontal fractures even before club members moved in.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MARINATED IN CIGAR SMOKE -- The Union Club opened in its present location, at 69th Street and Park Avenue, in 1933, the year these photographs were taken. In a lounge, top center, the ceiling looks like a billowing festival tent, and in the library, right, the light fixtures resemble Saturn and its rings. The main hall, far right, is in the form of a Greek cross, with a spectacular coffered dome. (Photographs from MetroHistory.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HISTORY (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%) Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Union Club (NYC)

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); SATURN (59%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



225 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Many Choose to Go in Reverse

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
REVERSE mortgages have been a boon to older homeowners, as well as the mortgage industry. But the product's popularity has brought some complications.
 Reverse mortgages allow people age 62 and older to draw on the equity in their primary residences, with monthly payments that continue as long as the borrower remains in the home.
 People have migrated in record numbers to such loans, according to the Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association, a trade association in Washington. 
 Borrowers last year took out nearly 86,000 Federal Housing Administration home equity conversion mortgages, the dominant reverse mortgage product, compared with just 48,500 in 2005.
 In fact, the loans have grown so popular that they run the risk of outstripping federal limits. As of last week, mortgage industry officials said they feared they would be forced to suspend their federal reverse mortgage programs because the government had agreed to insure only 275,000 such loans -- a number that is rapidly being approached.
 Peter H. Bell, president of the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association, said it was likely that Congress would lift the loan limit, at least temporarily, by the deadline, which is Feb. 15. ''We're moving along, but I won't breathe easily until it's passed,'' Mr. Bell said.
 Mr. Bell said lenders were issuing reverse mortgages at a monthly rate of about 8,000, compared with roughly 6,000 a year ago. ''The product is somewhat counterintuitive, and as a result some people are leery about it,'' he said. ''But as more people have these loans, more people know someone who has one, which fuels the growth.''
 A 62-year-old homeowner in Larchmont, N.Y., with a $240,000 house that has been fully paid off can qualify for a lump-sum payment of $104,000 or monthly tax-free payments of $650 under the federally insured Home Equity Conversion Mortgage.
 The monthly payments continue as long as the borrower lives in the house, even if those payments exceed the overall value of the home. In those cases, he or his estate need repay an amount equal only to the home's value. Otherwise, the borrower or his estate repays the amount loaned, plus interest.
 Payouts are based on a home's location and value, current interest rates, a borrower's age and the amount of equity he or she has in the house.
 There are potential downsides to these loans. For instance, closing costs, which are wrapped into the loan, are comparatively high, so borrowers who might move within a few years might wish to find other alternatives. These and other issues are covered in free, but mandatory, financial counseling sessions borrowers must complete before receiving a reverse mortgage. (Web sites like AARP's cover some such issues, at AARP.org/money/revmort/.)
 As reverse mortgages have grown more popular, lenders have begun creating more types of these loans. For instance, the Seattle Mortgage Company last year rolled out a line of jumbo reverse mortgages, which allow larger payouts but at typically higher interest rates. These new jumbo reverse mortgages allow borrowers to refinance the loan after one year with no penalties, which is sooner than some competitors.
 Meanwhile, the BNY Mortgage Company, a joint venture of EverBank and the Bank of New York, last month introduced the HECM 100, a reverse mortgage with an interest rate that is 0.5 percent lower than the bank's previous products.
 Joseph DeMarkey, a BNY Mortgage vice president, said the lower interest rate meant that a 70-year-old in a $300,000 home can receive about $13,000 more from the loan over its typical lifetime.
 The New York-area market for reverse mortgages, Mr. DeMarkey said, has been consistent with that of the rest of the country. ''It's been tremendous growth,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REVERSE MORTGAGES (95%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%) Housing; Mortgages; Area Planning and Renewal; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Housing; Property Taxes; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: Federal Housing Administration; General Motors Corp

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi; Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Sleepy Hollow (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



226 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: A Town Revived, a Villain Redeemed

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LOPATE. 
Phillip Lopate, a novelist and essayist, is also the editor of ''Writing New York,'' a collection of writings about the city.

 BODY:
ERICH VON STROHEIM was billed in his acting days as ''The man you love to hate.'' For the last 30 years, Robert Moses has been cast in that same role, as the villain responsible for everything that went wrong with New York. Even those newly arrived to the city knew enough to boo when his name came up at dinner parties. Moses (1888-1981) lived a long time, and his impact on the physical character of New York City was greater than that of any other individual in its history. 
 This imperious master builder has seemed to many the embodiment of all of modernism's mistakes, gutting cherished working-class neighborhoods with highways, and more interested in big projects and superblocks than in preserving the past with fine-grained restorations. When, in my 2004 book, ''Waterfront,'' I argued that Moses had done far more good for the city than bad -- taking into consideration his many parks, beaches, bridges and other necessary transportation projects -- and ought to be honored as one of its greatest citizens, a friend castigated me with a note: ''Who next, Stalin?'' 
Moses' satanic reputation with the public can be traced, in the main, to Robert A. Caro's magnificent biography, ''The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York.'' This irresistible, exhaustively researched masterwork of high journalism imposed a legible through-line on its subject's complicated career and turned Moses into a dramatically divided, classically hubristic figure who went from do-gooder idealism to insatiable lust for power. Though Mr. Caro's portrait was nuanced, giving the devil his due (especially during the first half, when the ''good'' Moses reigned), he was still the devil, in the final analysis. And indeed, he proved a most serviceable devil for conventional master narratives of New York over the last quarter of the 20th century. 
 But the stories we tell ourselves about how we got where we are need to be altered as circumstances change. Mr. Caro's book, with its ominous subtitle, appeared in 1974, when the city did appear to be going under, hit by a fiscal crisis that would verge on default, crime and drug problems, a huge loss of manufacturing jobs, a degraded infrastructure and a shrinking population. 
 Since then, the city has rebounded, reinventing itself as the capital of the world, a glamorous, exciting tourist destination, much safer, more prosperous, cosmopolitan, hospitable and populous than it has ever been. By almost every standard -- garbage pickup, Broadway box-office sales, increased public transit ridership -- it has improved from that low point 30 years ago. 
 Maybe it is fair to ask, then, at this moment: If the city is surviving so well, to what extent should we attribute its resiliency to the changes wrought by Robert Moses? If we truly love New York, how can we hate Moses, since he did so much to reshape the city into the one we enjoy now? 
 Such considerations may help explain the extensive revisionist reflection that is suddenly being applied to Moses' legacy. Three shows devoted to Moses have recently opened, at the Museum of the City of New York, the Queens Museum of Art and the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia University. A wonderfully insightful new book to be published this month, ''Robert Moses and the Modern City: The Transformation of New York,'' edited by two Columbia professors, Hilary Ballon and Kenneth T. Jackson, pulls together these strands of current thinking by urbanist scholars, and recasts its controversial subject in a more balanced, favorable light, without whitewashing his flaws. 
 The book places Moses in a broader context, showing that his decisions were in line with what was happening nationwide and worldwide. While he may have promoted the mystique of his own omnipotence to outfox opponents (a claim his critics took too credulously), he was in fact hemmed in constantly by budgetary, legislative and special-interest constraints. His brilliance was less as an urban form-giver than as an administrator who kept finding ways to build durably and well in the face of these limits. 
 With consummate opportunism he followed the money trail, at first tapping into local budgets for the construction or improvement of recreational facilities (Jones Beach, Riverside Park, dozens of neighborhood playgrounds and an astonishing set of public swimming pools) at the behest of Governor Al Smith and Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, then building parkways to get to the parks, then using New Deal money for a rash of civic projects, then milking postwar Federal funds to construct highways and enormous public housing complexes. One of his maneuvers was to turn highway construction into a revenue stream through toll collection and the establishment of public benefit corporations, like his cash cow, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, which gave him the freedom and resources to operate more autonomously. 
 It would take a whole newspaper to enumerate all of Moses' achievements, real and dubious. What needs to be stressed here is his vision of sustaining New York as a middle-class city. He saw that New York was losing its manufacturing base, and he tried to shore up the central city by supporting the growth of cultural institutions, universities and hospitals. To that end, he brokered deals that brought the city the United Nations, Lincoln Center, two World's Fairs and the expansion of New York University, Fordham and countless other academic institutions and hospitals. 
 This is the city we live in, for better or worse, the one where image and Internet have replaced factories and the port, and health and hospital services have supplanted the garment industry as our No. 1 employer. Foreseeing the increasing polarization of the city into rich and poor, Moses also tried to hold onto the middle class by setting in motion the construction of tens of thousands of units of housing, some with the aid of unions, such as Co-op City, Washington Square South, University Village, Kips Bay Plaza, Penn South Houses and Stuyvesant Town.
 Mentioning Stuyvesant Town reminds us that Moses did not put up a fight when its sponsor, Met Life, insisted that the project be racially restricted. A pragmatist, cavalier as too many were in his day about racial prejudice, he was more intent on getting those hundreds of units built than on protecting the civil rights of African-Americans. In the new book, Professor Jackson summarizes this thorny subject:
 ''The important questions, however, are not about whether Moses was prejudiced -- no doubt he was -- but whether that prejudice was something upon which he acted frequently.'' 
 THE evidence, Professor Jackson argues, does not support Mr. Caro's contention that racism was ''a defining aspect'' of Moses' makeup: ''Moses did try to place swimming pools and park facilities within the reach of black families and accessible by convenient public transportation. He did not build bridges too low to accommodate buses so that black families would stay away from Jones Beach, nor did he control the water temperature so as to discourage black patronage.''
 In Moses' implementation of urban renewal, which involved clearing large tracts of land for university and hospital expansion or middle-class housing, many poor and working-class families were not relocated nearby but displaced to worse neighborhoods. Let us be blunt: These were crimes against the poor. What we now need to do is look in the mirror and ask: Would we take back all those world-attracting amenities, the hospitaland university buildings, the cultural complexes, if we could, even knowing that might imperil the city's future economy? The answer is not so simple.
 Moses was no nostalgic sentimentalist, but a realist, who did not hesitate to intervene in Olmsted and Vaux's masterpieces, Central Park and Prospect Park, by adding zoos, children's playground and ball fields, because he deemed that the fashions in recreation had changed and that the public interest demanded it. Some of those changes we have rolled back; others we keep and cherish. As for those highways, regardless of how much we may value today the benefits of mass transit over cars, we see in retrospect that if Moses had not put in that interconnected highway system for the automotive age, New York City would have strangled on traffic and stagnated economically. 
 The problem was not that Moses built highways but that, like the sorcerer's apprentice, he didn't know when to stop. He had, to use Professor Ballon's apt description, a ''bird's-eye view,'' a regional, aerial vision when it came to transportation that tended to ignore the little people down below. Having taken care of the perimeter roadways, he began having at the inner city's innards, cutting a brutal swath with the Cross-Bronx Expressway; and he would have done in SoHo with his proposed Lower Manhattan expressway if he had not been stopped by public outcry.
 One of his most vocal opponents was Jane Jacobs, whose 1961 book, ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' became a rallying point and primer for a new urban aesthetic. It taught us to appreciate the value of neighborhoods, street life, mixed uses, organic, subtle changes -- to redress the over-scaling errors of modernist planning. Jacobs's modest, humane vision was a necessary corrective to Moses' technocratic arrogance. 
 But the pendulum may have swung too far; we may have become too timid, too frightened of attempting any large public works. Consider Westway, or the rail freight tunnel, or various garbage-incinerating plants, or the Gehry Guggenheim design for West Houston Street, all worthy ideas shot down by neighborhood opposition. 
 Sometimes a regional solution is called for; and when a neighborhood's Nimby perspective clashes with the city's overall good, the former should not necessarily prevail over the latter. What New Yorkers are finally coming to understand, in this season of re-evaluating their master builder, is that the choice between a Jane Jacobs and a Robert Moses, between neighborhood preservation and large-scale planning, is a false one. We need both.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Moses in 1939, and, below right, the biography of the man published 35 years later. (Photo by C.M. Spieglitz/Library of Congress) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (88%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); POPULATION DECLINE (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); SALES FIGURES (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); TOURISM (50%); TICKET SALES (50%) Books and Literature; Biographical Information; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: Robert (1888-1981) Moses; Phillip Lopate; Robert A Caro; Hilary Ballon; Kenneth T Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



227 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Jesse Hamilton for City Council

 BODY:
Voters in central Brooklyn do not lack for choices in the February 20th special election to fill the City Council seat vacated by Yvette Clarke. A diverse field of 10 candidates is bravely waging a campaign in frigid winter temperatures, each hoping to succeed Ms. Clarke -- now a freshman congresswoman. 
 Considering the size of the field, the off year -- and also the fact that these kinds of nonpartisan elections typically don't get anything approaching large turnouts -- a handful of votes could determine the winner. That makes each and every vote even more important in this contest.
The 40th District includes Ditmas Park, Kensington, Prospect-Lefferts and parts of Crown Heights, Flatbush and East Flatbush. Within its boundaries, churches, synagogues and mosques co-exist. Several candidates claim roots from the Caribbean -- a large segment of the district -- one is Jewish and one is the son of Pakistani immigrants.
 Ethnic politics, of course, have a long tradition in New York, and this race does a good job of reflecting newer segments of the city's population. While we like anything that might help increase voter participation -- ethnic and cultural pride included -- there are more important considerations here than the origins of the candidates.
 This part of Brooklyn has deep problems that cut across color and cultural lines. It has one of the highest rates of HIV/A.I.D.S. infection; chronic diseases, like diabetes, asthma, heart disease and hypertension are epidemic. Unemployment is higher than in most other parts of the city. Housing is increasingly unaffordable. Dropout rates are high. 
 Several of the candidates are running on impressive records of accomplishment within the district. Moe Razvi formed his own nonprofit and has been helping South Asian and other immigrants battle discrimination. Zenobia McNally, who owns a marketing firm, has been a community organizer and fighter for affordable housing. Mathieu Eugene, a Haitian immigrant with a medical degree, has dedicated himself to helping neighborhood youths. 
 These and some of the other candidates are making a huge difference in their present roles, and we encourage them to continue their good work. 
 To be effective in the council, a representative should come equipped with a full grasp of the issues, and with ideas to address them. On those counts, one candidate -- Jesse Hamilton -- stands out. Mr. Hamilton, a city tax assessor running on the Family Values and Money Matters party line, has a long record of achievement in the community. He served on the local school board, working to improve early childhood education, a passion he would pursue in the council.
 Mr. Hamilton is currently a vice chair of Community Board 8, where he has brought attention to the growing problem of homeless senior citizens. Last September he demonstrated his independence from the corruption-tainted Brooklyn machine of Clarence Norman, bucking it to beat its candidate for Democratic district leader.
 Mr. Hamilton, who holds a law degree from Seton Hall, understands the workings of the city government, and he would show up for work ready to serve the people of central Brooklyn. We endorse Mr. Hamilton for the City Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); POLITICS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); EPIDEMICS (69%); HEART DISEASE (64%); HYPERTENSION (64%); DIABETES (64%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (60%); CHILDREN (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CORRUPTION (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); TAX ASSESSORS (50%) Editorials; Endorsements

PERSON: YVETTE CLARKE (90%) Yvette Clarke; Jesse Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



228 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Regrets

BYLINE: By Matthew C. Cordaro. 
Matthew C. Cordaro, the former head of a utility, is the director of the Center for Management Analysis at the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University.

DATELINE: BROOKVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THE Shoreham nuclear power plant is dead and buried, but there is much to be learned from its demise. And the debate over closing the Indian Point nuclear station in Westchester County brings reminders about what was lost when Shoreham was abandoned. 
 Back in 1965, the Long Island Lighting Company (where I was the senior vice president from 1985 to 1987) announced plans to build a nuclear power plant on Long Island. The plant was under construction from 1973 to 1984 but for various reasons, it never produced a single kilowatt. 
The ultimate defeat of Shoreham stemmed from exaggerated concerns about emergency planning. The campaign against the plant gained momentum in 1979, following the accident at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania. Though no member of the public was seriously injured there, politicians were eventually persuaded by opposition to the plant to strike a deal with the lighting company to abandon Shoreham. 
 To this day, Long Islanders are still footing the bill for building and demolishing Shoreham.
 Yet 28 years after the Three Mile Island incident and with about 50 years of commercial use of nuclear power, there are 103 plants now operating in the United States with stellar safety records, and people in countries like France rely on nuclear power plants for almost all of their electricity. And with the price of oil continuing to rise, many utilities are looking to develop more nuclear power plants. 
 One can't help but wonder whether the decommissioning of Shoreham was the real starting point for serious energy problems on Long Island.
 Right now Long Islanders, while paying for the cost of Shoreham, are not getting any of the benefits that it would have provided. Instead, because of excessive reliance on expensive foreign oil, they are burdened by arguably the highest electricity rates in the United States. 
 One of the primary justifications for Shoreham was that it would reduce Long Island's dependence on foreign oil. If Shoreham were in operation today it would eliminate the need for more than 4 million barrels a year of imported oil. Also, because nuclear fuel costs are a small fraction of fossil fuel costs, it would substantially reduce Long Island's electricity rates and significantly lower the dreaded fuel surcharge.
 Moreover, Shoreham would have protected the air we breathe by eliminating the emission of about 17,000 tons of sulfur dioxide, 4,000 tons of nitrogen oxide and 1,000 tons of particulate matter a year. The increased air pollution without Shoreham, though not responsible for instantaneous fatalities, does the work of terrorists by killing thousands of people slowly over time. The only thing lacking is the drama of an attack like Sept. 11. 
 In addition, the operation of Shoreham would have curtailed the discharge of more than three million tons of carbon dioxide a year, a major cause of global warming. This is why Patrick Moore, a founder and former leader of Greenpeace, sees nuclear energy as the only non-greenhouse-gas-emitting power source capable of effectively replacing fossil fuels and satisfying growing demand.
 Besides the positive economic impact of lower rates, Shoreham would have produced substantial financial benefits in terms of jobs, taxes, economic output and higher income. Indian Point, alone, contributes $763.3 million a year to Westchester's economy. 
 Sure, there are those who say that they sleep better at night because there is no Shoreham, but this false sense of security is derived from a fear of an extremely unlikely piece of Hollywood fiction. In the real world, without Shoreham, these same people who are sleeping better are waking up to higher utility bills, more polluted air and climate change. 
 The unfortunate history of Shoreham shows us what to expect from an ill-advised closing of Indian Point. I hope the people of Westchester will avoid making a mistake that would compound an already serious energy situation for the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (97%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (96%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (96%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (76%); POLITICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); UTILITY RATES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); PARTICULATE MATTER (64%); NITROGEN OXIDES (64%); AIR POLLUTION (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) Electric Light and Power; Shutdowns (Institutional); Accidents and Safety; Indian Point Nuclear Power Plant (NY); Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%)

PERSON: Matthew C Cordaro

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Buchanan (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



229 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Captain Bill and the Case of the Missing Teeth

BYLINE: By Corey Kilgannon. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THIS fish tale begins about 15 million years ago, when the oceans were patrolled by huge prehistoric sharks like the big-tooth mako -- Isurus hastalis -- the likely predecessor to the modern great white shark.
 A single tooth from this mako could be as large as a child's hand, and because sharks have cartilage skeletons, fossilized teeth are vital to researchers studying the ancient makos of the Miocene and early Pliocene Epochs.
Fast-forward to the post-Levittown Epoch on Long Island. The waters have receded and a certain shop of the genus and species Souvenirus bargainis has evolved and taken shape at Montauk Point, next to the lighthouse. This gift shop stocked the usual T-shirts and postcards and sunscreen, and in its Darwinian struggle for economic survival, also sold small shark teeth fashioned into necklaces and other collectibles. 
 These trinkets were supplied by a shark tooth dealer named Bill Hojohn, or Captain Bill from his days skippering a charter fishing boat out of Montauk called the Honey Bun. Now he splits his time between his houseboat on Lake Montauk and a Manhattan apartment stuffed to the gills with shark teeth. Mr. Hojohn supplies places like SeaWorld and Busch Gardens with souvenir shark teeth, as well as many Long Island gift shops, including about 15 in Montauk.
 Mr. Hojohn lent the shop by the lighthouse his prize collectible: a huge set of fiberglass shark jaws that held a formidable set of fossilized mako teeth, some 15 million years old. These Spielbergian-scale choppers were more than just a showpiece. They had historical importance as some of the largest fossilized mako teeth ever discovered, Mr. Hojohn said.
 The teeth, most of them almost three and a half inches long, were recovered by a diver from rivers in South Carolina. The jaws remained mounted high up on the gift shop wall for about 10 years, through busy summers and long winters, when the shop was closed.
 Last month, Mr. Hojohn had the jaws taken down to be packed for display on a tour of trade shows around the country, and he discovered that 6 of the 122 teeth were missing: one from the upper jaw, three from the lower and two that happened to be replicas made for the jaws.
 ''These are some of the largest fossilized mako teeth ever discovered,'' Mr. Hojohn said. ''Museums don't even have them this big. I just got back from a trade show with every major player in the fossil business and no one had any that size. I'll never be able to replace them.''
 Now, if there is a fitting locale for a shark tooth caper, Montauk would be it. A bastion of shark fishing, it has spawned people like Frank Mundus, the shark hunter who helped inspire the Captain Quint character played by Robert Shaw in ''Jaws.'' In the quintessential Quint scene, Shaw rakes his fingernails across a blackboard and tells the frightened locals he will capture the monster shark, but not for the measly $3,000 reward. (''I'll find him for 3, but I'll catch him and kill him for 10.'')
 Would there were a Captain Quint to help Captain Bill recoup the teeth. 
 As it is, Mr. Hojohn is relying on investigators from the New York State Park Police, headed by Maj. Richard O'Donnell, commander of its Long Island region. He said last week that there were no hot leads in the Montauk shark tooth case. Investigators say they believe that whoever took them did so recently because there was no dust on the recesses where the teeth had been, while dirt and dust were built up on the rest of the jaw.
 Because the jaw was removed, the crime scene was contaminated, the major explained. He said that his officers had reached out to dealers of such ancient items and questioned several people who had access to the shop.
 Short of ringing up the shark tooth fairy, there are only so many places to find a perp fencing shark teeth. 
 Mr. Hojohn sat in his apartment last week surrounded by hundreds of thousands of shark teeth -- his own estimate -- neatly organized and classified in labeled bins and bags: ''Fossil Great White'' next to ''One Inch Tiger Shark'' next to ''Fossil Makos'' next to ''2005 Taxes.''
 He put the value of the toothy jaws at $30,000, though he allowed that they could bring much more or much less depending on how badly a collector wanted them.
 ''It's not about the money,'' Mr. Hojohn said. ''These are some of the largest mako teeth ever discovered. You'd never be able to get that type of fossil that size and shape to replace the missing teeth.''
 The question arises: Why would someone leave a mouthful of such rare objects in a seasonal gift shop?
 ''I was probably a little careless about leaving it up there, but what else am I going to do with it?'' he said. ''It helped sell the product. It was a gamble on my part, but we put it up so high that you'd need a ladder to get at it.''
 Anyway, who's going to argue with a guy armed with more shark teeth than a ''Jaws'' sequel?

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (88%); SPORT FISHING (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); FINFISH FISHING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (74%); DENTISTRY (73%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Teeth and Dentistry; Sharks; Robberies and Thefts

COMPANY: BUSCH GARDENS WILLIAMSBURG (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (55%)

PERSON: Bill Hojohn; Corey Kilgannon

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Montauk (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



230 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Powerful Regrets

BYLINE: By Matthew C. Cordaro. 
Matthew C. Cordaro, the former head of a utility, is the director of the Center for Management Analysis at the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University.

DATELINE: BROOKVILLE 

 BODY:
THE Shoreham nuclear power plant is dead and buried, but there is much to be learned from its demise. And the debate over closing the Indian Point nuclear station in Westchester County brings reminders about what was lost when Shoreham was abandoned. 
 Back in 1965, the Long Island Lighting Company (where I was the senior vice president from 1985 to 1987) announced plans to build a nuclear power plant on Long Island. The plant was under construction from 1973 to 1984 but for various reasons, it never produced a single kilowatt. 
The ultimate defeat of Shoreham stemmed from exaggerated concerns about emergency planning. The campaign against the plant gained momentum in 1979, following the accident at Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Pennsylvania. Though no member of the public was seriously injured there, politicians were eventually persuaded by opposition to the plant to strike a deal with the lighting company to abandon Shoreham. 
 To this day, Long Islanders are still footing the bill for building and demolishing Shoreham.
 Yet 28 years after the Three Mile Island incident and with about 50 years of commercial use of nuclear power, there are 103 plants now operating in the United States with stellar safety records, and people in countries like France rely on nuclear power plants for almost all of their electricity. And with the price of oil continuing to rise, many utilities are looking to develop more nuclear power plants. 
 One can't help but wonder whether the decommissioning of Shoreham was the real starting point for serious energy problems on Long Island.
 Right now Long Islanders, while paying for the cost of Shoreham, are not getting any of the benefits that it would have provided. Instead, because of excessive reliance on expensive foreign oil, they are burdened by arguably the highest electricity rates in the United States. 
 One of the primary justifications for Shoreham was that it would reduce Long Island's dependence on foreign oil. If Shoreham were in operation today it would eliminate the need for more than 4 million barrels a year of imported oil. Also, because nuclear fuel costs are a small fraction of fossil fuel costs, it would substantially reduce Long Island's electricity rates and significantly lower the dreaded fuel surcharge.
 Moreover, Shoreham would have protected the air we breathe by eliminating the emission of about 17,000 tons of sulfur dioxide, 4,000 tons of nitrogen oxide and 1,000 tons of particulate matter a year. The increased air pollution without Shoreham, though not responsible for instantaneous fatalities, does the work of terrorists by killing thousands of people slowly over time. The only thing lacking is the drama of an attack like Sept. 11. 
 In addition, the operation of Shoreham would have curtailed the discharge of more than three million tons of carbon dioxide a year, a major cause of global warming. This is why Patrick Moore, a founder and former leader of Greenpeace, sees nuclear energy as the only non-greenhouse-gas-emitting power source capable of effectively replacing fossil fuels and satisfying growing demand.
 Besides the positive economic impact of lower rates, Shoreham would have produced substantial financial benefits in terms of jobs, taxes, economic output and higher income. Indian Point, alone, contributes $763.3 million a year to Westchester's economy. 
 Sure, there are those who say that they sleep better at night because there is no Shoreham, but this false sense of security is derived from a fear of an extremely unlikely piece of Hollywood fiction. In the real world, without Shoreham, these same people who are sleeping better are waking up to higher utility bills, more polluted air and climate change. 
 The unfortunate history of Shoreham shows us what to expect from an ill-advised closing of Indian Point. I hope the people of Westchester will avoid making a mistake that would compound an already serious energy situation for the region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (97%); POWER PLANTS (97%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (96%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (76%); POLITICS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); UTILITY RATES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); PARTICULATE MATTER (64%); NITROGEN OXIDES (64%); AIR POLLUTION (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) Electric Light and Power; Shutdowns (Institutional); Accidents and Safety; Indian Point Nuclear Power Plant (NY); Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant; Atomic Energy

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%)

PERSON: Matthew C Cordaro

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Buchanan (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



231 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Nassau Coliseum Moves Closer to Renovation

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
Plans to renovate the aging Nassau Coliseum and develop the surrounding 77 acres moved forward on Monday when the Nassau County Legislature approved development rights for the Lighthouse Development Group, 16 to 2. 
 The vote enables County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi to execute an agreement with the developer for the area known as the Nassau Hub and to begin the application process for rezoning.
Judith A. Jacobs, presiding officer of the Legislature, said: ''This was a bipartisan effort to move the project forward since we all agree that this is an opportunity to build a base in Nassau County and bring us tremendous economic growth, without overburdening the taxpayers. It doesn't commit the town, county or Legislature to any particular land use, but is the beginning of giving the project a little push.''
 Ms. Jacobs said the plans were preliminary and there was no timetable yet.
 The Lighthouse Group is a joint venture of Charles B. Wang, a founder of Computer Associates who owns the New York Islanders, and Reckson Associates Realty, Long Island's largest landlord. 
 In March, Mr. Suozzi selected the Lighthouse Group to redevelop the Hub. Its plans for the $1.6 billion project included renovation of the Coliseum and development of a suburban center with a hotel, apartments, a stadium for a minor-league baseball team, a sports technology center and a convention center.
 Because the site is in the Town of Hempstead, it is responsible for decisions about size, scope, environmental impact and zoning. Once all zoning approvals have been granted, Nassau County will negotiate a lease with the developer, which is subject to approval by the Legislature.

GRAPHIC: Photo: DRAWING BOARD -- Plans include developing 77 acres around the Coliseum. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ZONING (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); BASEBALL (65%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Nassau Coliseum

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (55%); CA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (94%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%) Lighthouse Development Group

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (55%); CA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Linda Saslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



232 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: Penny Foolish

BYLINE: By David Margolick. 
David Margolick, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, is the author of ''Beyond Glory: Joe Louis vs. Max Schmeling, and a World on the Brink.''

 BODY:
Now when you see a penny,
 Look at Lincoln's face!
 See how round and round again,
 Lincoln saved the race!
 Look at that small penny,
 Hold it close to you,
 And if you ever lose your way,
 Abe will lead you through.
 -- Alfred Kreymborg, ''The Lincoln Penny,'' 1942
 IT is strewn around the sidewalks and gutters of America, amid the bottle caps and cigarette butts, not even worth bending over to fetch. When the street sweepers rumble by, a few invariably linger in their wake. Or it languishes by cash registers in cheap plastic troughs or cardboard trays, yours to take or leave or ignore. Or it rattles around in beggars' cups, making lots of noise but too puny, even by the handful, to swing a muffin or a hot cup of coffee. 
Yet when it first appeared four score and 18 years ago, it was a matter of almost unimaginable curiosity, excitement and veneration. People -- mostly street urchins searching for a quick profit -- lined up for blocks to buy them; in New York, mounted policemen were called in to control the roiling mobs. Editorialists praised it as the perfect tribute to a martyr, or denounced it as a trinket unworthy of him. Immigrants had a special reverence for it; to blacks, it was ''emancipation money.'' But even to whites, there was something sacred about it. A New York man who'd committed suicide a few days after it first appeared clutched one in the palm of his hand, thinking, apparently, that it would bring him good luck in the hereafter.
 It is the Lincoln penny. Since its debut on the centennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth, in 1909, probably no art object in human history has been reproduced more often: by the end of last year, 444,039,035,418 times, and counting. That's nearly half a trillion images of a benevolent, accessible, vaguely smiling Lincoln -- intended, as its designer explained, ''to show the sunshine as well as the goodness of his life.'' It is a history worth commemorating as Lincoln's birthday -- remember that? -- is again upon us. (It's tomorrow.) Only when you consider the Lincoln penny's glorious origins can you see how far it has fallen; long after it earned a decent and respectful retirement it must soldier on -- burials it's had aplenty, as a dip into any landfill shows -- victim of inflation and inertia, political maneuvering and national vanity.
 The millionaire may seldom
 Those noble outlines grasp,
 But childhood's chubby fingers
 The image oft will clasp.
 The poor man will esteem it,
 And mothers hold it dear -- 
 The plain and common people
 He loved when he was here.-- ''The Lincoln Cent,'' The New York Sun, February 1909
 President Theodore Roosevelt thought American coins were pedestrian and uninspiring. That included the Indian Head penny, which had been around since 1859. In July 1908, he sat several times for Victor David Brenner, a Lithuanian-born Jew who, since coming to the United States 19 years earlier, had become one of the nation's premier medalists. To Brenner as to many immigrants, Lincoln was a hero; he'd learned about him in a settlement house on the Lower East Side. Brenner showed Roosevelt a bas-relief he'd made of Lincoln, based on a photograph from Mathew Brady. Roosevelt, who considered himself Lincoln's political heir, decreed that Brenner's Lincoln go on a new penny, in time to commemorate Lincoln's 100th birthday in 1909. 
 It was a revolutionary act: Up to then, the only figures on everyday American coins were allegorical figures, like Liberty. Putting real people on them, the thinking went, smacked of monarchy; even George Washington hadn't rated such treatment. To place Lincoln on the most widely circulated coin made sense; it was Lincoln, after all, who'd said that ''Common-looking people are the best in the world; that is the reason the Lord makes so many of them.''
 Brenner, who received $1,000 for the commission, adapted his bas-relief Lincoln for the new coin, warming him up along the way. This revised Lincoln, he explained, would be ''more intimate, deeper, more kindly'' -- Lincoln as if in a library, talking to a child. ''I read everything I could find describing the man's personal side,'' Brenner later recalled. ''I studied his portraits and the death mask until I believed I knew him. My mind was full of Lincoln.'' 
 Production of the new penny began at the United States Mint in Philadelphia on July 10, 1909. So great was the anticipation that Mint officials declined Brenner's request for 100 of the first coins struck; it would be unfair to all the other movers and shakers clamoring for them. Anticipating regional jealousies, the Mint decreed that the coin be released across the country simultaneously. ''The new Lincoln cents, it seems, will be distributed the first week in August,'' The Boston Globe reported excitedly that May. ''It is so hard to wait!''
 This bronze our Lincoln's noble head doth bear,
 Behold the strength and splendor of that face,
 So homely-beautiful, with just a trace,
 Of humor lightening its look of care!
 With bronze indeed his memory doth share,
 This martyr who found freedom for a Race;
 Both shall endure beyond the time and place
 That knew them first, and brighter grow with wear.
 -- Frank Dempster Sherman, ''Brenner's Lincoln.''
 In New York, the first few Lincoln pennies were issued by the federal sub-treasury -- the precursor of the Federal Reserve Bank -- in the financial district on Monday, Aug. 2, 1909. By Tuesday, long lines for the coins had already formed. ''The big man down in Wall Street yesterday was the man who had a few of the new Lincoln cents,'' The Sun reported that Wednesday. ''He could have had a fairly good time on 10 of them; he could start a celebration on a quarter's worth, and for 50 of them there was no reason why he couldn't purchase a regular jubilee.'' 
 Quickly, though, people learned that Lincoln was not the only man the new coins immortalized. On the back -- between the pair of elegantly curved heads of wheat designed to show, as Brenner said, that in America there was plenty, and to spare -- were Brenner's initials, still familiar to any serious coin collector: ''V.D.B.'' 
 It was not the first time a designer's monogram had appeared on an American coin, nor were the letters especially large. But instantly, Brenner was labeled a shameless self-promoter; The Times mocked that all future pennies should sport not just Brenner's full name, but his address and a picture of his office. Rumors flew that the offending letters would soon be removed, and when those rumors were confirmed, the collecting frenzy only grew.
 Even rain couldn't dampen the intensified rush in Lower Manhattan, which by Friday saw crowds extending from Pine and Nassau Streets east to William Street, then around the corner to Wall Street. Banks complained that their regular customers couldn't get through the swarms. Some people near the front of the lines sold their spots for a dollar. The more impatient and ingenious hired women, who in a still chivalrous era were not made to wait. ''Within 15 minutes there were enough girls at the door to make it look like a bargain counter sale on a busy Monday,'' The Sun reported. To The Times, the scene resembled Wall Street during the panic two years earlier.
 Many in what The Tribune called ''the penny-mad crowd'' were poor children, faces outof Jacob Riis or Lewis Hine photographs, some carrying a single battered Indian Head penny to trade in, others far more entrepreneurial. The resale rate hovered around three new pennies for a nickel, though it shot up whenever supplies ran low. ''You couldn't walk half a dozen feet,'' The Sun reported, ''without having a grimy hand thrust out in front of you with a pile of glittering pennies in the outstretched palm.'' 
 THE scene was pretty much the same around the country. The Washington Star compared the hordes outside the Mint there to the crowds watching the Wright brothers test their ''aeroplanes.'' In Boston, according to The Globe, ''you could get the new Lincoln coins for a cent apiece by spending, say, a dollar's worth of time.'' In Springfield, Ill., demand was ''unprecedented,'' The Illinois State Register reported; the Lincoln Bank ordered 5,000, but received only 50. Demand was high even in the old Confederacy: the crowd outside one Atlanta bank ''would have made a Chicago bread line look small.'' (After some well-publicized uncertainty, a schoolgirl in Charleston, S.C., donated one toward a monument for Robert E. Lee.)
 If it were possible to talk with that great, good man, he would probably say that he is perfectly willing that his face is to be placed on the cheapest and most common coin in the country. Follow the travels of the penny and you find it stops at many cottages and few mansions. The common, homely face of 'Honest Abe' will look good on the penny, the coin of the common folk from whom he came and to whom he belongs.
 -- Carl Sandburg, The Milwaukee Daily News
 No one was more pleased with the new coins than African-Americans. A report from Middletown, N.Y., described ''a furore among the colored residents, many of whom appear to think that the pennies were issued for their special benefit.'' But the new coins were not always so welcome. They were too thick for vending machines and, to the horror of the telephone company, could pass for nickels. Their shininess gave thieves conniptions: a man sticking up a train in Altoona, Pa., carted off a bagful, worth $50, while leaving another bag, containing $5,000 in gold, behind.
 And there were complaints from traditionalists, falling along historic, artistic, moral and even metallurgical lines. ''The red Indian in his war bonnet, the sole survival of aboriginal North America, was of value as a cultural memorial, if for nothing else,'' thundered The Times, which called the loss of the Indian Head penny ''another ill-considered freak of Mr. Roosevelt's will.'' It suggested that the Indians be restored to American coinage, and that its ''foolish'' replacements ''find oblivion in the tills of the coin collectors.'' 
 Some thought copper far better suited to depicting Native Americans than white men. The Philadelphia Inquirer likened the new coin to ''the cheap little medal that used to be given away with bags of pop-corn.'' In The New York Herald, a letter writer called it ''only useful to adorn a church collection plate or feed a penny slot chewing gum machine or to be given to our 'kids' for lollipops.''
 But these were minority views, and the dies pressed on. By the end of 1909, the Mint had stamped out more than 100 million of the new pennies. And for a time, they retained their novelty. A drugstore in Syracuse offered one to every customer; a store in Galveston, Tex., threw one in if you bought three pairs of women's hosiery. A jeweler in Fresno, Calif., offered Lincoln penny hat pins and brooches for 25 cents, and Lincoln penny cuff links for 50 cents.
 Now Lincoln, a penny, can't park your car
 Washington on a nickel can't go too far,
 Jeff on two, good to play at the track
 If you think you gonna bring some big ones back
 Give me some dead presidents
 Give me some dead presidents
 I don't need Lincoln on the little old cent
 I want great big Lincoln, to pay my rent.
 -- Willie Dixon, ''Dead Presidents''
 IN 1918, surely to make it conform to other coins rather than in response to any public groundswell or appeal from the artist, Brenner's initials were quietly restored, to the spot where they remain, almost undetectable, to this day: at about 7 o'clock along the bottom of the bust. That was scant consolation to the artist; he died in obscurity in 1924. But his penny survived World War I, then served in World War II: when copper was scarce, it was briefly made from steel, then from casings of discarded shells.
 Since then, though, it's all been downhill. On Lincoln's 150th birthday in 1959, the penny lost half of Brenner's original design, the wheat stalks yielding to the far less elegant Lincoln Memorial. In 1983, the copper gave way to lighter, cheaper zinc, turning the Lincoln penny into a practically weightless object, a tiddlywink -- something that, when dropped, clicks rather than rings. Once again, merchants began giving Lincoln pennies away, though now, not to lure customers in but to hasten their sales and rush them out. The few people who still bend over to pick them up are invariably those least able to stoop.
 And yet the coin persists. Yes, there are periodic attempts to eliminate the Lincoln cent, which now costs more to make than it's worth, but they're always beaten back by an odd coalition of zinc manufacturers, Illinois politicians, rank sentimentalists and charities running penny drives. Here there are also efforts to restore the coin to at least some of its former glory. For the Lincoln bicentennial two years from now, the reverse side of the coin will sport four new designs, each commemorating a place where Lincoln lived. Then, in 2010, the back of the coin will be used to represent Lincoln saving the union. 
 On any other object, these would be worthwhile, even noble, goals. But on the penny, they simply mean five new versions of something to step on, toss out and pave over. It hardly sounds like an honor.
 Only by recalling the excitement a simple coin could generate nearly a century ago, can we see how unforgivably low the coin has fallen in the American mind. Finally, those curmudgeons who complained at the time that the Lincoln penny wasn't worthy of Lincoln, so roundly repudiated, are at last, incontrovertibly right. To hold Abraham Lincoln hostage to an object of such universal contempt is a disgrace. 
 What is needed, then, is a new campaign to emancipate Lincoln from the penny. The best way, of course, would be to kill the penny altogether. But if, for reasons of habit or political expedience, we foolishly keep it around, then perhaps it should commemorate some president appropriate to its lowly station, perhaps James J. Buchanan or Andrew Johnson. 
 In the meantime, let's move Lincoln -- Brenner's Lincoln -- to a new $2 or $5 piece, so that our greatest president can be on the country's most valuable coin instead of its most reviled one. That would be an altogether fitting and proper way to honor the man, and to celebrate his birthday.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gregory Nemec) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); SUICIDE (64%); LANDFILLS (50%) Currency

PERSON: David Margolick; Abraham (1809-65) Lincoln

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



233 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: REFUELED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Life on the Ethanol-Guzzling Prairie

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: BURLEY, Idaho 

 BODY:
THE quilt of winter brown that covers the high plateau makes this area look particularly depressing on a February afternoon. But the still-life can be deceptive. 
 Later this year, a Canadian company, Iogen, will announce whether Idaho will get what could be the first large-scale commercial plant in the United States to produce fuel from straw. Not ethanol made from corn, as refineries in more than a hundred mostly small towns are now doing, but ethanol made from the native prairie grass, corn stalks, field waste and wood chips.
 That would follow an announcement just last month that a company whose investors include Bill Gates plans to open a corn-based ethanol plant here in Burley -- the latest in a boom of biorefineries that are being planted in some of the most depressed areas of the United States.
 What is happening here is a vision that many in rural America see as their salvation: high-performance moonshine from amber fields of grain, and a ''grass station'' in every town. It may be a chimera. It may drain precious water from the arid plains and produce less energy that it uses. 
 But it has the undeniable power of an idea in ascendancy. 
 In part this is because the ethanol economy, as it grows before our eyes, is looking less like a taxpayer-financed Big Plan dominated by a single agribusiness corporation and more like something that might bring fresh jobs and local control back to farm country. 
 The vision of a decentralized ethanol industry is taking shape, albeit an industry aided by tax breaks and government mandates. There are now 113 American ethanol plants and an additional 77 under construction, according to the Renewable Fuels Association, the industry trade group. Most of them are right in the middle of the Farm Belt, in counties that have been losing people since the Depression. 
 Archer Daniels Midland, once the dominant force, is less of a player, controlling about 22 percent of the market. But roughly 40 percent of the new biorefineries are locally owned, representing the sweat and capital of farmers, retired schoolteachers and small-town bankers. 
 With the kind of Wall Street and venture capital money now sniffing around the farm, this could change in the blink of a pig's eye. But for now, in barren counties with shuttered stores on Main Street, people see a renaissance. They see a biorefinery every 50 miles or so, turning out American fuel for American drivers from American crops. And, once the technology moves from corn to cellulose (as field waste is called), they see the essential stuffing of the scarecrow from the Wizard of Oz providing a sustainable economy that also offers some answers for global warming. 
 ''We're going to revitalize rural America,'' said Read Smith, a farmer in eastern Washington and national co-chairman of a nonprofit group working with some of the biggest names in politics and philanthropy to have agriculture produce 25 percent of the nation's energy needs by the year 2025. ''We're going to pull the plywood off the windows. We're going to create a $700 billion per year industry that is not here today.''
 Already, in places that have not felt a new pulse in decades, the reality is getting ahead of the dream. From Benson, Minn., where a farmer-owned refinery is making ethanol -- and a premium vodka -- while returning more than $60 million to local corn growers, to Shelby, N.Y., where a planned biorefinery would provide some of the first new jobs in years, rural America is in a swoon for ethanol.
 This year, the nation is expected to produce six billion gallons of ethanol, mostly from corn. That is still barely enough to replace 4 percent of the nation's gasoline consumption, but is well ahead of the pace dictated by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. 
 Several thousand people turned out last summer in tiny Laddonia, Mo., for the opening of the state's fourth ethanol plant. A yard sign, fusing a picture of corn, a gas pump and the flag, carried the slogan that people are marching to: ''Our Crop. Our Fuel. Our Country.''
 With his call for a mandatory fivefold increase in renewable fuels within 10 years, President Bush in his State of the Union address added his voice to the cause. He was joined by Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, who said he wanted to use the coming farm bill to energize rural America.
 ''We need to think big and act aggressively,'' Mr. Harkin said. ''My goal is to pass a bold new farm bill that will drive the transition toward enhanced energy security for the nation based on renewable energy from our farms and rural communities.''
 The stampede to the cornfields and beyond is not without plenty of risk. You need look only as far as ''synfuels,'' the disco-era dream to produce fuel from rock beneath the crust of the Rocky Mountains. That effort left open wounds in the mountains, and little to show for it. Or further back, there was the Dust Bowl, a result of a government call to rip up the native prairie grass and replace it with wheat. When grain prices crashed, the land peeled away and covered the flatlands in haze. 
 And even in small towns with a biorefinery that has been operating for some time, the new jobs and new money have not been enough to keep people from leaving. The Chippewa Valley Ethanol Company in Benson produces 45 million gallons of ethanol a year, which has led to an economic revival in a town with a little more than 3,000 people. 
 The plant has been in operation for 10 years. But young people are still walking away from Benson. The town and its surrounding county lost 5 percent of its population between 2000 and 2005, according to census estimates. 
 ''But think of what the population drain would have been if Chippewa Valley had not been there,'' said Matt Hartwig, a spokesman for the Renewable Fuels Association. 
 Indeed, the plant's general manager, Bill Lee, said the fact that there is something new and exciting in an often fragile farm town is a very big deal. ''In the 10 years that we've been here, there's been a housing boom, a downtown makeover and the community has authorized a new swimming pool,'' he said. 
 Ten years ago, ethanol was a curiosity, dominated by one company. High oil prices, tax breaks and government mandates have finally created a real industry, diverse and growing.
 Though some big money is moving into corn and the leap to fuel from straw, the small producers can compete on price because they are so close to the product, at its creation and its end use, they say. 
 ''There's an old saying among farmers that is, if you can see the barn from your field, you can afford what you put in there,'' said Chad Kruger, a consultant working on climate-friendly farming at Washington State University.
 There is a limit to how much corn can be converted to fuel without denting the food supply, and that day is not far off, farmers say. Already, corn prices have spiked considerably, causing livestock farmers to complain about costs. Tortilla protesters in Mexico blame the demand for corn by ethanol producers for high prices.
 Others say they are concerned that in the rush to convert corn sugar to fuel, lands set aside for wildlife will be freshly plowed, and all the fertilizer and processing waste used along the way will be little help in lowering the temperature of the planet. 
 Also, at a time when millionaire landowners get six-figure subsidies, there is fear of creating a new class of welfare-farmers hooked on green entitlements.
 ''So far, the ethanol boom has been positive,'' said Chuck Hassebrook, executive director of the Center for Rural Affairs, a nonprofit research group in Nebraska. ''But government incentives should be tied to promoting local ownership and producing the crop in a way that is environmentally sustainable.''
 The cost of converting something like straw to ethanol is more than twice what it is for corn, which is one big reason no cellulosic plant has yet opened. Still, if market forces and technology come around, the prairie could be dotted with refineries running entirely on grass or field stubble in five to eight years.
 And it is that dream that keeps many farmers going: owning their share of the little ethanol plant on the prairie. 
 ''I've been hearing about this ethanol for 15 years, and it looks like its time has finally come,'' said Cloy Jones, who farms 560 acres here on the Snake River Plateau. 
 Still, it may not be enough to return rural America to its glory days. Mr. Jones has nine children, all grown. Not one works on the farm.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cornfed -- Tiny Laddonia has one of Missouri's four ethanol plants. The people's slogan: ''Our Crop. Our Fuel. Our Country.'' (Photo by Peter Newcomb for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Not Just Big Agribusiness -- Ethanol plants like this one in Laddonia, Mo., are popping up all around the Farm Belt. (Photo by Peter Newcomb for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (92%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Grain; Farmers; Grass; Labor

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (54%) Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Midwestern States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



234 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com.STATE OF CONNECTICUTHartford Underground Storage Tank Petroleum Clean-Up Account Review board meeting. 
Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3370. Hartford Prehearing conference on Aquarion/Torrington Water Company. Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. Hartford Prehearing conference on Harborside Associates. Thursday at 1 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. FAIRFIELD COUNTYBethel Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 4 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Brookfield Charter Revision Committee. Monday at 7 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300. Danbury Commission on Persons With Disabilities. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.Greenwich Board of Social Services. Tuesday at 6:45 p.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700. Monroe Town Council. Monday at 8 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417. New Canaan Historical Review Committee. Thursday at 10 a.m. New Canaan Town Hall, 77 Main Street. (203) 972-2323. New Fairfield Parks and Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Fairfield Town Hall, 4 Brush Hill Road. (203) 312-5616.Newtown Borough Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Newtown Town Hall South, 3 Main Street. (203) 426-6470. Redding Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Trumbull Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:15 p.m. Trumbull Town Hall, 5866 Main Street. (203) 452-5000. Weston Board of Finance. Monday at 8 p.m. Weston Town Hall, 56 Norfield Road. (203) 222-2656. Wilton Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Wilton Town Hall, 238 Danbury Road. (203) 563-0100. HARTFORD COUNTYAvon Board of Education. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Board of Education Annex, 34 Simsbury Road. (860) 404-4700. Simsbury Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7 p.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200. LITCHFIELD COUNTYBarkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Colebrook Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7 p.m. Colebrook Town Hall, Colebrook Center. (860) 379-3359. Falls Village Board of Finance. Monday at 6:30 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707. New Milford Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020. Plymouth Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Roxbury Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Roxbury Town Hall, 29 North Street. (860) 354-9938. Salisbury Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182. Woodbury Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. MIDDLESEX COUNTYEssex Water Pollution Control Authority. Monday at 7 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340. Portland Brownstone Exploration and Discovery Park Advisory Committee. Monday at 7 p.m. Portland Town Hall, 33 East Main Street. (860) 342-6715. NEW HAVEN COUNTYCheshire Town Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cheshire Town Hall, 84 South Main Street. (203) 271-6660. Woodbridge Conservation Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400. NEW LONDON COUNTYGroton Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 5 p.m. Groton Town Hall, 45 Fort Hill Road. (860) 441-6640. Montville Public Works Subcommittee. Wednesday at 6:45 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311.TOLLAND COUNTYAndover Inland Wetlands and Watercourses Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305. Tolland Town Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. WINDHAM COUNTYKillingly Town Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Killingly Town Hall, 172 Main Street. (860) 779-5300. Woodstock Recreation Commission. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Woodstock Town Hall, 415 Route 169. (860) 928-6595.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ZONING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



235 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Escalating Hostilities Between Deer and Drivers

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
Accidents involving deer and cars more than doubled in some towns in Fairfield County in the last two years, according to a report issued last week.
 The report, by the Fairfield County Municipal Deer Management Alliance, which consists of members from 15 towns and cities, said that in New Canaan, there were 101 accidents in 2006, up from 44 the year before. Other towns that had increases were Darien (to 38, from 16), Greenwich (86, from 38) and Trumbull (38, from 21). 
Kent Haydock, a spokesman for the alliance, said that it was too early to tell if the increases were part of a trend, but that some of the accidents were serious. He said a woman was killed on the Merritt Parkway last year when a deer crashed through her windshield.
 Many of the accidents were in the fall -- deer mating season -- at dawn and dusk, Mr. Haydock said. ''The deer are very mobile then,'' he said. ''And we have many cars on the roads then because those are commuting hours.''
 Howard J. Kilpatrick, a wildlife biologist with the state Department of Environmental Protection, said there were approximately 76,000 deer in the state when last counted four years ago. He said the deer were the most dense in Fairfield County, where there are as many as 50 per square mile in some areas.
 Hunters in the northern part of the state have been able to control deer growth, he said, but ''in Fairfield County, you have smaller properties that have been less exposed to hunting.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick said the deer population needed to be reduced in Fairfield County, and recommended hunting as effective and economical. 
 Mr. Haydock said controlling the number of deer was the only way to reduce accidents. JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%) Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Deer

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Connecticut; Fairfield County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



236 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Utility Official Kills Himself After Learning About Subpoenas

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
A top utility official in New Brunswick, N.J., shot himself to death after learning that federal prosecutors had subpoenaed his personal and official records, the authorities said yesterday.
 The official, Shawn Maloney, 42, was found Friday sprawled, in an open yard, with a bullet wound to the head. A handgun was close by, the police said. He was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital.
Mr. Maloney was the director of the 44-employee Department of Water Utility for the city, which has a population of about 50,000 and is home to Rutgers University. 
 On Thursday, the United States attorney's office in Newark issued two subpoenas for Mr. Maloney, a career city official who had been director since 1993. James M. Cahill, the mayor, said Mr. Maloney was not in the office Thursday but was informed of the subpoenas later that afternoon.
 City officials had two meetings with Mr. Maloney Friday at City Hall to discuss the subpoenas.
 The first was to inform Mr. Maloney about the receipt of the subpoenas and what they contained, Mr. Cahill said. William J. Hamilton, Jr., the city attorney, said in a telephone interview yesterday: ''One subpoena asked for personal records and the other asked for departmental records. They were very broad gauge.''
 Mr. Maloney ''seemed fine,'' Mr. Cahill said yesterday. ''He didn't seem surprised. There was nothing unusual about his demeanor. It was very businesslike.''
 The second meeting was to identify procedures to comply quickly with the subpoenas. It began at 11:15 a.m. and was briefer, lasting less than 20 minutes, according to Mr. Hamilton.
 ''He left the office'' on Bayard Street, Mr. Hamilton said. ''And as far as we knew, he was going home.''
 A city worker discovered Mr. Maloney's body less than a mile from City Hall in a yard near a water treatment plant not far from the Cook College campus of Rutgers. The police were summoned about 12:12 p.m.
 A handgun was found near the body and tests were being conducted to determine whether it was the gun that wounded Mr. Maloney. ''We have no reason to believe that it wasn't,'' said Joseph Catanese, director of the New Brunswick police. ''He was found bleeding from the head from what appeared to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.''
 Mr. Maloney was taken to Robert Wood Johnson Hospital, where he was declared dead at 1:20 p.m. Emergency room personnel found a note in his clothes, Mr. Catanese said. ''It was very personal,'' he said. ''I don't want to say anything about it.''
 There had been no earlier reports of accusations involving the water department, but last year federal investigators began an inquiry of the city's Department of Planning, Community and Economic Development. It was not known whether the two investigations were linked.
 Calls to Mr. Maloney's family and the United States attorney's office were not returned yesterday.
 ''I don't know why we received the subpoenas with respect to the water utility or Mr. Maloney,'' the mayor said. ''It came as quite a surprise.''
 The mayor, who appointed Mr. Maloney director, said he started at the department 23 years ago, at age 19, as a water-line repairman, an entry-level position that included digging ditches. ''He was a very dear friend,'' the mayor said.
 Mr. Hamilton, the city attorney, said, ''I thought he was a very wonderful young man, very hardworking, very dedicated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPOENAS (95%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DEATHS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (78%); HEAD INJURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MAYORS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WATER QUALITY (50%) Water; Suicides and Suicide Attempts

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%) Water Utility Department (New Brunswick, NJ)

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez; Shawn Maloney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Brunswick (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



237 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 6; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: For Las Vegas, It's Showtime

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Here, where the fountains dance and the stage lights never go dark, where the cheesy and the risque mingle alongside celebrities to a soundtrack of slot machines, decadence has found a new friend. 
 The N.B.A. All-Star Game, the league's biggest annual party, is about to descend here next weekend. The game, of course, is only an exhibition. But what isn't in Las Vegas?
For the first time, a non-N.B.A. city will play host to the All-Star Game. Las Vegas, one of the fastest-growing metropolitan areas (population: 1.9 million) in the country without a professional sports team, wants to showcase itself as worthy of becoming a full-time major league city.
 The odds, however, that the N.B.A. or any other league will soon come to Las Vegas for more than just a vacation -- through relocation or expansion -- are low. For now. 
 David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, has made ''integrity of the game'' his battle cry in the years since the Pacers-Pistons brawl and says that local gambling on the league, though regulated, would violate that tenet. He maintains that casinos must take all N.B.A. games off their oddsmakers' books before Las Vegas could be a viable site.
 ''There's only one stumbling block,'' Stern said in an interview this week, referring to the legalized betting on N.B.A. games. ''It has to be off the books for consideration. It is that, more than any other issue.''
 To be sure, the building and financing of a new Las Vegas arena to replace the 23-year-old Thomas & Mack Center could be almost as difficult. Already, arena-financing issues are threatening franchises in Sacramento and Seattle, and, to a lesser degree, Orlando and Milwaukee. Las Vegas could offer an exit strategy for some franchises, but not for the Sacramento Kings.
 Joe Maloof, whose family owns the Kings and operates the thriving Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas, said he wanted the team to remain in Sacramento. 
 ''Sooner, rather than later, there's going to be an N.B.A. team in Las Vegas,'' said Maloof, who added that Coach Jerry Tarkanian's success in the early 1990s at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas made the city a true basketball destination. ''It's one of the great last cities that doesn't have a franchise, and it needs one.'' 
 Joe Maloof's brother George, the owner of the Palms, estimated that there was a 10 percent chance that a professional sports team would move to Las Vegas in the next five years. But the city's colorful mayor, Oscar Goodman, who likes to promote his city with showgirls on his arm, projected far better odds.
 ''Guaranteed -- even money,'' Goodman said in an interview Friday in his office. ''I bet on anything that moves. I'm ready to bet my reputation that we will have serious discussions about getting a major league franchise here in Las Vegas, and these discussions will begin before the spring of this year.''
 Goodman would not say whether it would be an N.B.A. or N.H.L. team, only that it would not be a baseball or football team. 
 Major League Baseball did flirt with Las Vegas in 2004 about relocating the Montreal Expos there before eventually deciding on Washington. Officials from the Florida Marlins also met with Goodman in 2004 before Commissioner Bud Selig directed Goodman to stop the talks because baseball wanted the team to remain in South Florida.
 Before the Super Bowl last Sunday, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell bluntly dismissed Las Vegas as a site. ''I have my personal views about gambling, and I don't think it's in the best interests of the N.F.L. to have any association with sports betting,'' Goodell said.
 The N.F.L., of course, is the professional league that generates the most betting revenue, according to Nevada's Gaming Control Board. 
 Meanwhile, given the N.H.L.'s struggles, perhaps it was not surprising that Bill Daly, the league's deputy commissioner, said in a telephone interview Friday that the league would have a ''flexible approach'' toward local betting on the sport if a franchise ended up in Las Vegas. 
 Goodman first met with officials from the N.H.L. several years ago. ''There's clearly a return interest,'' Daly said, adding that some private parties in Las Vegas were having continuing discussions. 
 During the N.B.A. All-Star weekend, by order of Stern and Nevada's Gaming Control Board, casinos cannot offer betting on the All-Star Game. 
 ''We're talking about one basketball game right now, and it's really an exhibition,'' said Chuck Esposito, the assistant vice president for race and sports book operations at Caesars Palace. ''There are so many other positives from one game.'' But, he added, taking one of the major sports off the casino betting boards on a permanent basis ''would have much more of an impact in the industry.''
 As a result, he said, ''We'd have to weigh all the pros and cons'' of an N.B.A. franchise in Las Vegas. 
 Because of the Maloofs' ownership of the Kings, the Palms cannot have betting on any N.B.A. games, at any time. ''It hurts us a little bit,'' Joe Maloof said. ''We still show the games, but they can't bet on it.'' 
 For decades, casinos prohibited betting on U.N.L.V. games, but in 2001 Nevada's Gaming Control Board reversed the ban. What if the N.B.A. were to accept a partial ban, perhaps only on games that a Las Vegas franchise plays? 
 Goodman sees compromise as essential. A trial lawyer who made his reputation defending organized crime bosses in Las Vegas, Goodman is preparing to plead his case to Stern next week. ''Hopefully, I can change his mind,'' Goodman said. ''He's a smart man.'' 
 Neither Stern nor his owners appear to be in a hurry to resolve the issue. 
 ''I don't know enough of the details about the city to give a final answer, but philosophically I have no problem with the gambling side of it,'' Mark Cuban, the Dallas Mavericks' owner, wrote in an e-mail message Thursday when asked about the possibility of an N.B.A. team in Las Vegas. ''If the economics work, I'm all for it.'' 
 The Houston Rockets' owner, Les Alexander, said: ''I think the owners are in favor of it. I don't see any reason why the N.B.A. wouldn't be successful in Vegas. It's a big enough population. The potential for arena suite sales and sponsorships could make it one of the best.''
 The N.B.A. All-Star Game caters precisely to that kind of crowd. Tickets for the game were available to sponsors and to the league's international partners, but not directly available to fans. 
 Sponsors are renting out lavish suites in the Palms, where all the players are staying. Nike has taken over the 10,000-square foot Hardwood Suite in the Palms, complete with a small basketball court and a Jacuzzi. 
 Adidas has placed giant screen murals of its stars -- Tracy McGrady, Gilbert Arenas, Kevin Garnett, Dwight Howard -- on the side of the MGM Grand and Luxor Hotels. Dwyane Wade posts up for T-Mobile on the side of the Mandalay Bay. 
 The idea for an N.B.A. All-Star Game in Las Vegas came from the Maloof brothers, who approached Stern. By the summer of 2005, the game was approved by the casinos, the city and the league. 
 Stern is excited about Las Vegas's entertainment value, but he plays down the risk of an image hit for the league in a city known for indiscretion. Of course, more damage might have been done to the N.B.A.'s image in America's heartland this season when Indiana Pacers players engaged in two late-night incidents at Indianapolis nightclubs.
 ''There's potential in any city,'' Stern said. ''What we've found is that indiscretion knows no geographic boundaries or political boundaries.''
 The N.B.A. is going where gambling is strictly regulated and casinos already have a high level of security and surveillance. City officials are so confident in their ability to play host to major events that Rossi Ralenkotter, the president of the Convention and Visitors Authority, has already talked to Stern about bringing the game back in 2011. 
 ''I think it is fair to say that this is a test case -- for both neutral sites as well as Las Vegas as such a site,'' Stern said Friday. 
 As for real contests, the N.B.A. is no stranger to Las Vegas. The Utah Jazz played 11 games of its 1983-84 season there while its arena was under construction. During the Los Angeles riots of 1992, a Lakers first-round playoff game against the Portland Trail Blazers was moved there. 
 Whether the county government wants to build a new arena for a permanent N.B.A. team is another story. 
 Rory Reid, chairman of the Clark County Board of Commissioners, formed a task force with Goodman to determine the necessity and cost of a new arena to lure a franchise to Las Vegas. Reid has dampened Goodman's enthusiasm lately by declaring that the public should not finance an arena. ''It should not be our No. 1 priority,'' Reid said, considering the more pressing social welfare and criminal justice issues. 
 Despite such potential obstacles, SportsCorp's Marc Ganis, a consultant who has analyzed relocations for nine franchises, said it was only a matter of time before some league chooses Las Vegas. ''Because there is too much of a potential pot of gold for the first one,'' Ganis said. 
 For now, Las Vegas awaits the N.B.A. family, coming to celebrate the past, present and future of the game. 
 Both city and N.B.A. leaders are keeping their fingers crossed that impropriety is kept to a minimum. They are equally curious to see if what happens in Vegas -- N.B.A. basketball -- will eventually stay there.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe, left, and George Maloof, whose family owns the Sacramento Kings and operates the Palms Casino Resort, in the Hardwood Suite at the Palms. Right, an Adidas ad featuring the All-Stars Kevin Garnett and Dwight Howard at the Luxor Hotel. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
(Photo by Brian Jones/Associated Press)
David Stern says that if Las Vegas wants a franchise, casinos must take N.B.A. games off their sports books. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The race and sports books at the Palms, which will play host to the players for next weekend's N.B.A. All-Star Game in Las Vegas. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); GAMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); CASINOS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); CITIES (75%); RESORTS (70%); URBANIZATION (70%) Basketball; All-Star Games

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (59%); INDIANA PACERS (55%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (54%) Liz Robbins

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



238 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Troubles Grow For a University Built on Profits

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
The University of Phoenix became the nation's largest private university by delivering high profits to investors and a solid, albeit low-overhead, education to midcareer workers seeking college degrees. 
 But its reputation is fraying as prominent educators, students and some of its own former administrators say the relentless pressure for higher profits, at a university that gets more federal student financial aid than any other, has eroded academic quality.
 According to federal statistics and government audits, the university relies more on part-time instructors than all but a few other postsecondary institutions, and its accelerated academic schedule races students through course work in about half the time of traditional universities. The university says that its graduation rate, using the federal standard, is 16 percent, which is among the nation's lowest, according to Department of Education data. But the university has dozens of campuses, and at many, the rate is even lower.
 In an interview, William J. Pepicello, the university's new president, defended its academic quality and said it met the needs of working students who had been largely ignored by traditional colleges. 
 But many students say they have had infuriating experiences at the university before dropping out, contributing to the poor graduation rate. In recent interviews, current and former students in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Texas and Washington who studied at University of Phoenix campuses in those states or online complained of instructional shortcuts, unqualified professors and recruiting abuses. Many of their comments echoed experiences reported by thousands of other students on consumer Web sites.
 The complaints have built through months of turmoil. The president resigned, as did the chief executive and other top officers at the Apollo Group, the university's parent corporation. A federal court reinstated a lawsuit accusing the university of fraudulently obtaining hundreds of millions of dollars in financial aid. The university denies wrongdoing. Apollo stock fell so far that in November, CNBC featured it on a ''Biggest Losers'' segment. The stock has since gained back some ground. In November, the Intel Corporation excluded the university from its tuition reimbursement program, saying it lacked top-notch accreditation. 
 It adds up to a damaging turnaround for an institution that rocketed from makeshift origins here in 1976 to become the nation's largest private university, with 300,000 students on campuses in 39 states and online. Its fortunes are closely watched because it is the giant of for-profit postsecondary education; it received $1.8 billion in federal student aid in 2004-5.
 ''Wall Street has put them under inordinate pressure to keep up the profits, and my take on it is that they succumbed to that,'' said David W. Breneman, dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia. ''They seem to have really stumbled.''
 In the interview, Dr. Pepicello shrugged off the bad news. Many top corporations still pay for employees to attend the university, he said, and the exodus of top officials has resulted from a healthy search for new directions. ''We are reinventing ourselves,'' Dr. Pepicello said. 
 The government measures graduation rates as the percentage of first-time undergraduates who obtain a degree within six years. On average across all American universities, the rate is 55 percent. Dr. Pepicello said this was a poor yardstick for comparing other universities with his, which serves mostly older students who started college elsewhere. Alongside the 16 percent rate, the university Web site also publishes a 59 percent graduation rate, but that is based on nonstandard calculations and does not allow comparison with other universities, he said. The official rates at some University of Phoenix campuses are extremely low -- 6 percent at the Southern California campus, 4 percent among online students -- and he acknowledged extraordinary attrition among younger students. 
 ''We have not done as good a job as we could,'' he said, adding that the university was creating tutoring and other services to help keep students.
 ''The university takes quality in the classroom seriously,'' he said. The university brings a low-overhead approach not only to its campuses, most of which are office buildings near freeways, but also to its academic model. About 95 percent of instructors are part-time, according to federal statistics, compared with an average of 47 percent across all universities. Most have full-time day jobs. Courses are written at university headquarters, easing class preparation time for instructors. 
 The College Board reports the university's annual tuition and fees as $9,630, about half the average at private four-year colleges and twice that of four-year public colleges.
 Students take one course at a time, online or in evening classes, which meet for four hours, once a week, for five or six weeks, depending on degree level. As a result, students spend 20 to 24 hours with an instructor during each course, compared with about 40 hours at a traditional university. The university also requires students to teach one another by working on projects for four or five hours per week in what it calls ''learning teams.'' 
 Government auditors in 2000 ruled that this schedule fell short of the minimum time required for federal aid programs, and the university paid a $6 million settlement. But in 2002, the Department of Education relaxed its requirements, and the university's stripped-down schedule is an attractive feature for many adults eager to obtain a university degree while working. But critics say it leaves courses with little meat.
 ''Their business degree is an M.B.A. Lite,'' said Henry M. Levin, a professor of higher education at Teachers College at Columbia University. ''I've looked at their course materials. It's a very low level of instruction.''
 In November, the university's reliance on part-time faculty caused a problem with Intel, hundreds of whose employees it has educated. Alan Fisher, an Intel manager, said the company had decided to pay for employees to attend only highly accredited programs. Although Phoenix is regionally accredited, it lacks approval from the most prestigious accrediting agency for business schools, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business.
 John J. Fernandes, the association's president, said the university had never applied. ''They're smart enough to understand their chances of approval would be low,'' Mr. Fernandes said. ''They have a lot of come-and-go faculty. We like institutions where the faculty is stable and can ensure that students are being educated by somebody who knows what they're doing.''
 Dr. Pepicello defended the effectiveness of the faculty, saying instructors were carefully certified. 
 Most educators acknowledge that the university has helped traditional institutions recognize the needs of older students. 
 Some of the university's detractors suggest that it has always relied too much on part-time faculty and raced too quickly through course material. Others say the university's academic program was once better but has deteriorated in breakneck expansion -- it has opened 50 campuses in a decade. Today, even a cursory Internet search will turn up criticism on sites like ripoffreport.com and uopexperience.com.
 ''Phoenix claims that 95 percent of their students are satisfied, but the reports we get indicate otherwise,'' said James R. Hood, founder of a similar site, consumeraffairs.com. 
 Many reports followa similar pattern. Students say they liked recruiters' descriptions of the classes, but after enrolling concluded that they were learning too little or paying too much. Many who quit say they were left with huge debts.
 Robert Wancha, 42, a former National Guard commander who is pursuing a bachelor's degree in information technology at the university's Detroit campus, said that in a computer course last fall his instructor, Christopher G. Stanglewicz, had boasted that he had a doctorate but did little teaching, instead assigning students to work in learning teams while he toyed with his computer.
 Mr. Stanglewicz, reached at his home, acknowledged that he had covered only a fraction of the syllabus , partly, he said, because the university required him to cram too much information into too few sessions. 
 ''Students get overwhelmed,'' he said. Mr. Stanglewicz asserted in the interview that he had earned a doctorate in economics from the University of Kentucky. But the authorities there said his name was not in their records. (Dr. Pepicello said that Mr. Stanglewicz had never told the university that he had a doctorate, and that he was qualified to teach.)
 Not all students are critics. Yvonne-Louise Catino, 43, of Bloomington, Minn., who is studying online for a doctorate, said she believed she was getting a rigorous education. In a week, Ms. Catino said, she might read eight journal articles and write several essays. ''I love the online environment,'' she said, ''being able to direct where I want to go.'' 
 But some students said their early enthusiasm had soured.
 Stacey Clark, 32, an office manager in East Wenatchee, Wash., enrolled in online courses in April and was delighted to receive A's in her first courses, she said. Later, Ms. Clark decided her instructors were too disengaged to criticize her work. One returned a 2,500-word essay on performance-enhancing drugs with an A but not one comment, she said.
 ''You're not learning from an actual teacher, you're teaching yourself,'' Ms. Clark said.
 Many students accuse recruiters of misleading them, and the university's legal troubles trace back to similar accusations of recruitment abuses. In 2003, two enrollment counselors in California filed a whistle-blower lawsuit in federal court accusing the university of paying them based on how many students they enrolled, a violation of a federal rule.
 After the lawsuit was filed, the Department of Education sent inspectors to California and Arizona campuses. The department's report, which became public in 2004, concluded that the university had provided incentives to recruit unqualified students and ''systematically operates in a duplicitous manner.'' 
 The university paid $9.8 million to settle the matter, while admitting no wrongdoing. But the department's searing portrait of academic abuse aroused skepticism among many educators. 
 Dr. Breneman was finishing a chapter on the university in a book he helped edit when he read the report in 2004. He said he found it ''credible and compelling.'' 
 When the book, ''Earnings from Learning: the Rise of For-Profit Universities,'' was published last year, it said the university's academic model was convenient for working students, but included a ''cautionary note'' saying the recruiting scandal had raised ''disturbing questions.''
 Those questions are likely to dog the university as it defends itself in the lawsuit, which a district court had dismissed but an appellate court reinstated in September. The university could be forced to repay hundreds of millions of dollars if it loses. It asked the Supreme Court last month to review the appellate ruling, arguing that an adverse outcome in the lawsuit could expose it to ''potentially bankrupting liability.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Wancha, who is pursuing a bachelor's degree at the University of Phoenix, has criticized its standards. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
 President William J. Pepicello says the university meets the needs of working students. (Photo by Elise Amendola/Associated Press)(pg. 29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); ACCREDITATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); TUITION FEES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUDITS (71%); LITIGATION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: APOLLO GROUP INC (90%); INTEL CORP (63%)

TICKER: APOL (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



239 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Economic Powers to Study Growing Influence of Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: ESSEN, Germany, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Finance ministers from the world's leading economies put the $1.4 trillion hedge fund industry firmly on the international policy agenda on Saturday, saying they would scrutinize the sector closely with an eye toward encouraging more self-regulation. 
 Representatives from the Group of 7 nations, who met in the industrial center of the host country, Germany, issued a statement saying that the practices of hedge funds, which have drawn growing concern from financial policy makers over the last few years, have ''become more complex and challenging'' in light of the industry's prominence and volatility.
''Given the strong growth of the hedge fund industry and the instruments they trade, we need to be vigilant,'' the ministers said in their statement. ''We therefore agreed to further pursue the issue.''
 Hedge funds, which manage vast pools of capital and operate largely outside regulatory scrutiny, have grown to become some of the largest and most important players in markets around the world, particularly on Wall Street and in London. On Friday, the Fortress Investment Group, the first hedge fund in the United States to go public, saw its shares rise 67.6 percent on the first day of trading. 
 At the meeting on Saturday, even the United States Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. -- whose former firm, Goldman Sachs, profits immensely from its relationship with hedge funds -- said hedge funds needed more attention from policy makers.
 ''I can't imagine we could be doing our jobs, those of us responsible for financial regulation, without talking about this topic,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 Policy makers worry that a major hedge fund failure could endanger the stability of their lenders, which tend to be the biggest international investment banks, in turn creating chaos in major financial markets.
 The collapse of one fund, Long Term Capital Management, in 1998 forced United States officials to help engineer a rescue plan to contain the damage, though losses incurred last year by another fund, Amaranth Advisors, did not create a systemic crisis.
 Americans tend to favor voluntary codes of conduct for new industries, a stance that generally finds favor in Britain. In continental Europe, attitudes tend to run toward outright regulation, but there have been noteworthy exceptions recently. Indeed, Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, spoke out at the Group of 7 meeting for ''spontaneous standards and codes that would be voluntary, elaborated by the industry itself.''
 At times the ministers appeared to be exhorting the hedge fund industry -- still a relative newcomer to finance -- to recognize its own interests and police itself. The German finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, warned that the repetition of a big crisis like Long Term Capital Management could provoke the outright regulation that funds want to avoid.
 ''They would have to reckon with a political reaction,'' Mr. Steinbruck said.
 Germany has seen its share of turbulence related to hedge funds. In 2005, two funds that opposed a bid by Deutsche Borse to take over the London Stock Exchange engineered the downfall of the chairman and chief executive of the Borse, which is based in Frankfurt.
 To follow through on their concerns about hedge funds, the ministers directed a committee known as the Financial Stability Forum to update a report it wrote on the subject in 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ETHICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); FIG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (59%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%); PEER STEINBRUECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



240 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: New Setback in North Korean Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Negotiations over North Korea's nuclear weapons program stalled on Saturday as disagreements arose about the size and timing of the aid package that would be provided to North Korea in exchange for shutting down the country's nuclear weapons facilities. 
 ''The differences on the issue still remain large,'' said Qin Gang, spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry.
 The impasse occurred amid rising expectations for an agreement in Beijing, where the diplomatic talks were under way, and in Washington, where Bush administration officials had predicted a major announcement this weekend. Instead, negotiators from North Korea, China, the United States, South Korea and Japan will meet again on Sunday for a fourth day of talks.
 Christopher R. Hill, the chief American envoy, would not discuss any specifics about the dispute but said negotiations had largely boiled down to one issue. ''Frankly, I had hoped we could get it done on Saturday,'' Mr. Hill said. ''But I think it's going to take another day or two.''
 The diplomatic effort to resolve the North Korean nuclear issue has gone nowhere since the six participating nations signed a broad accord in September 2005 in which North Korea agreed to end its weapons program in exchange for economic and energy benefits, as well as security guarantees. Negotiations almost fell apart last October after North Korea tested a nuclear device.
 This week's focus has been on establishing a schedule for shutting down North Korea's nuclear program, as well as the timing and amount of assistance the North gets in return. Bush administration officials say that the current draft calls for North Korea to shut down and seal its main nuclear facilities within two months in exchange for shipments of fuel oil from South Korea and the opening of talks with Washington over diplomatic recognition.
 But the process now seems stuck on the fine print of exactly how much help North Korea is demanding. Aleksandr Losyukov, the top Russian negotiator, said the parties had not decided on final figures for assistance, and he declined to detail the amounts requested by North Korea.
 ''The biggest obstacle to reaching a joint statement remains on the issue of economic aid,'' said Mr. Losyukov, according to Xinhua, China's official news agency. 
 However, at least one diplomat suggested that the process faced more than one problem. ''The situation continues to be severe,'' Kenichiro Sasae, the Japanese envoy, told reporters. ''We are boiling down our problems, but there is no conclusion in sight for several issues.''
 Kyodo, the Japanese news agency, quoted an unidentified diplomatic source as saying that North Korea had demanded the equivalent of about two million tons of fuel oil annually, a figure that stunned other participants.
 Mr. Hill, speaking to reporters late Saturday night, said North Korea wanted ''a very precise measurement with how we are going to get through this.'' He predicted that the problem could be solved. ''We are kind of reaching a point where we have got to solve this,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NEWS REPORTING (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



241 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/WESTCHESTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: In New Plans, Hope for G.M. Site

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: SLEEPY HOLLOW 

 BODY:
THE landscape at the site of a former General Motors factory along the Hudson River, where Beekman Avenue, this village's commercial strip, abuts the shoreline, is bleak: acres of weeds growing from cracks in concrete slabs on which generations of automobile assembly line workers once toiled.
 The plant closed in 1998, and five years ago, Roseland Property, a developer based in Short Hills, N.J., entered into a partnership with the automaker, but no construction ever occurred.
Now it appears that the story may have a happy ending within the next few weeks.
 The partners are proposing to redraw the waterfront map with an $800 million mixed-use plan that includes 250 housing units, a 140-room hotel, 132,000 square feet of offices and 35,000 square feet of retail space. 
 As part of the deal, Roseland is to buy the 97 acres from G.M. eventually. Jonathan Stein, an operating officer for the developer, would not disclose the price. The final cost of building Lighthouse Landing, as the project has been named, will depend on how much residential and commercial space is approved, he said.
 Philip E. Zegarelli, Sleepy Hollow's mayor, said he had become increasingly frustrated with the delays, calling the latest version of the Lighthouse Landing, which is currently before village planners, ''Rocky IV.''
 But Mr. Zegarelli acknowledges that the delay is not attributable only to the developers. ''G.M. and Roseland took awhile to work out their agreement,'' he said, ''but the village also sent back drafts many times to the developers for reworking. It all took time.''
 While officials are eager for the site to be developed even in a somewhat scaled-down form the original proposal called for 1,565 housing units the project has not been universally welcomed. A major concern is that the village and neighboring towns may not be able to handle increased traffic, but that is not expected to prevent village board action.
 In addition, New York State has determined that sections of the 97 acres are contaminated with lead either from car paint or batteries, or both and that the site must be cleaned up before any new construction. The cleanup, at the developer's expense, is expected to cost $25 million.
 The economic downturn that hit Sleepy Hollow as a result of the plant's closing was not as pronounced as it has been in many places where G.M. has cut back operations or closed factories. In the past two decades, the automaker has shut down about 25 plants, and close to 90 percent of the sites are being developed for other uses, according to Matthew Cullen, a general manager of economic development for G.M. (The company's cutbacks are not finished. G.M. plans to cut 30,000 jobs and close nine more plants by the end of next year.) Still, a series of layoffs over the years and the plant's final closing took a relatively harsh toll on this 2.3-square-mile village of some 10,000 people, where the G.M. site represents 7 percent of the land mass.
 One serious casualty was Beekman Avenue, where a number of drinking establishments and delicatessens that served automotive workers have closed, leaving behind a string of empty storefronts.
 ''G.M.'s problems caused a major dislocation in our village,'' said Mr. Zegarelli, who has served as mayor since 1999, and also served from 1979 to 1987.
 Many workers were relocated to other plants, but some opted for early retirement. Since their departure, the racial composition of the village has shifted. When the automaker was still turning out cars and minivans here, the population was heavily white. But since 1990, the Hispanic population has climbed 11 percentage points, to 45 percent of residents, white non-Hispanics account for 48 percent, according to the latest census figures. Even though the project awaits approval, there have been changes along Beekman Avenue, which winds down from Route 9 for about six blocks toward the river.
 Last summer the Lighthouse Coffee Company, an Internet cafe and art gallery serving espresso, pastries and hot chocolate and offering live music, opened in a former tavern opposite the G.M. site. Closer to Route 9, J..P. Doyle's Restaurant & Public House, which used to be opened during the day for the workers, became an evening-only restaurant and bar.
 Gary Serina, a former G.M. assembly line worker who is an owner of the coffeehouse, said his establishment these days serves ''a hip, youngish crowd.''
 Among his customers, he said, are young mothers who live nearby in Ichabod's Landing and meet many mornings at the coffeehouse after getting their children off to school.
 Ichabod's Landing, a two-year-old condominium complex, is near the Tarrytown-Sleepy Hollow border; it was built by Ginsburg Development of Valhalla partly in anticipation that development of the G.M. site would bring other expensive homes to the area.
 [feliason1] Ultimately, the Lighthouse Landing is expected to generate about $5 million in village property taxes, less than half the amount that G.M. once paid, but a big improvement on the $150,000 a year the automaker is now paying on the vacant land.
 ''We're missing that tax income sorely,'' the mayor said, ''but it's a once-in-a-hundred-year opportunity to redo the waterfront, and it's worth taking the extra time to get it right.''
 The delay in moving ahead with the new proposal has also presented challenges for the developer, Mr. Stein said. Depending on the real estate market when construction finally begins, the developer will decide what percentage of the new housing will be ownership units or rentals, Mr. Stein explained. As it stands now, the numbers are split about evenly, with no free-standing homes planned for Lighthouse Landing.
 Some version of the proposal is expected to be approved within the month, the mayor said, predicting that the final number of residential units would be about 1,100.
 Once the plan is approved, the cleanup can begin, the mayor said. It will take about six months, after which construction can finally get under way.
 Mr. Serina, 42, now runs the coffeehouse with his mother, Emma Serina, also a former G.M. employee. As a child, Mrs. Serina, who worked at a cafeteria in the plant, used to meet her father when his shift at the factory finished in the afternoon.
 In the 1980s, when the plant employed some 4,000 workers, commerce along Beekman Avenue was brisk, Mr. Serina recalled. By the late 1990s, however, the village resembled a ghost town, he said.
 Among the developer's other projects is Port Imperial, a $2.1 billion, two-mile mixed-use community on the Hudson in West New York, Guttenberg and Weehawken in New Jersey. Mr. Stein described Roseland as ''a redeveloper of former industrial properties.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before, After? -- Lighthouse Landing, left, proposed for the site of the former G.M. plant, has been bogged down for years. The 1883 lighthouse is seen at the top left of the photo and at the center of the rendering. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Roseland/Sleepy Hollow L.L.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); APPROVALS (66%); LEAD (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



242 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 11, 2007

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 						 	 	 	1	1	3	PLUM LOVIN', by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A mysterious man in Stephanie Plum's life helps her track down a matchmaker who skipped bail.		 	 	 	2	2	18	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	3	3	11	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	4		1	WHITE LIES, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Putnam, $24.95.) Two members of the Arcane Society, dedicated to paranormal research, investigate a series of murders and foil a plot to take over the society.		 	 	 	5		1	THE CASTLE IN THE FOREST, by Norman Mailer. (Random House, $27.95.) An imagined life of the young Adolf Hitler.		 	 	 	6	6	2	YOU SUCK, by Christopher Moore. (Morrow, $21.95.) A 19-year-old discovers that his girlfriend is a vampire -- and now, so is he.		 	 	 	7*	7	2	THE SUSPECT, by John Lescroart. (Dutton, $26.95.) A lawyer defending a man accused of killing his wife is first drawn to him, but then begins to have doubts.		 	 	 	8	4	4	THE HUNTERS, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer seeks the killers of a shady American diplomat murdered in Uruguay; follows from Griffin's ''Hostage.''		 	 	 	9	5	3	EXILE, by Richard North Patterson. (Holt, $26.) A San Francisco lawyer defends a Palestinian woman accused of assassinating the Israeli prime minister.		 	 	 	10	12	8	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''		 	 	 	11	10	2	DUST, by Martha Grimes. (Viking, $25.95.) Investigating the murder of a wealthy young man leads Richard Jury of Scotland Yard to Henry James's home and to forgotten Nazi atrocities.		 	 	 	12	8	2	bad blood, by Linda Fairstein. (Scribner, $26.) The Manhattan assistant district attorney Alexandra Cooper discovers a link between a wealthy woman's murder and an explosion in a city water tunnel.		 	 	 	13	11	9	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.		 	 	 	14*	15	8	THE BOLEYN INHERITANCE, by Philippa Gregory. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) Politics and treachery in the court of Henry VIII, narrated by three women, two of them his sometime wives.		 	 	 	15		1	LORDS OF THE NORTH, by Bernard Cornwell. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) In this third volume of the Saxon Tales, set in the late ninth century, a Saxon warrior is betrayed by a Danish ally and joins forces with King Alfred.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	15	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	6	10	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	3	2	16	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	4	4	67	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5*		1	WHAT A PARTY! by Terry McAuliffe with Steve Kettmann. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The former head of the Democratic National Committee recalls his experience as a fund-raiser.		 	 	 	6	10	2	POWER, FAITH, and FANTASY, by Michael B. Oren. (Norton, $35.) A history of America's relations with the Middle East starting in 1776.		 	 	 	7	5	26	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	8	9	19	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	9	12	95	 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	10	7	4	ABOUT ALICE, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $14.95.) The New Yorker writer's recollections of his deceased wife.		 	 	 	11*	8	18	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	12	11	90	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.		 	 	 	13	3	2	BORN ON A BLUE DAY, by Daniel Tammet. (Free Press, $24.) A memoir by an autistic savant who can perform extraordinary mathematical calculations.		 	 	 	14	14	2	TOO SOON TO SAY GOODBYE, by Art Buchwald. (Random House, $17.95.) A humorous valediction from the syndicated columnist, who died in January 2007, also looks seriously at end-of-life issues.		 	 	 	15		1	SUPREME CONFLICT, by Jan Crawford Greenburg. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) The ABC correspondent argues that President Bush has succeeded in moving the Supreme Court decisively to the right.		 	 	 	16*		1	FINAL EXAM, by Pauline W. Chen. (Knopf, $23.95.) A surgeon reflects on her experience with dying patients.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Jan. 27, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. MAN GONE DOWN, by Michael Thomas. (Black Cat/Grove/Atlantic, paper, $14.) This first novel explores the fragmented personal histories behind four desperate days in a black writer's life. The Notebooks of Robert Frost, edited by Robert Faggen. (Belknap/Harvard University, $39.95.) Concepts from these largely aphoristic journals animate the poems, and vice versa. THE UTILITY OF FORCE: The Art of War in the Modern World, by Rupert Smith. (Knopf, $30.) Drawing on his own military experience, a British general updates Clausewitz for our times.MATTERS OF HONOR, by Louis Begley. (Knopf, $24.95.) A young Holocaust survivor learns to navigate at Harvard and in America. DESCARTES: The Life and Times of a Genius, by A. C. Grayling. (Walker, $26.95.) Grayling's biography is strong on context, picturing the strange world from which modern science was emerging.SKYLARK FARM, by Antonia Arslan. Translated by Geoffrey Brock. (Knopf, $23.95.) Arslan bases her first novel on the experiences of her grandfather's family in the 1915 Armenian massacres.VACCINE: The Controversial Story of Medicine's Greatest Lifesaver, by Arthur Allen. (Norton, $27.95.) Allen sees the anti-vaccination impulse as largely fueled by ignorance of the past.CHARITY GIRL, by Michael Lowenthal. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) This novel's World War I heroine is locked up on suspicion of spreading V.D.THE REAL PEPSI CHALLENGE: The Inspirational Story of Breaking the Color Barrier in American Business, by Stephanie Capparell. (Wall Street Journal Books/Free Press, $25.) An admiring account of Pepsi's enterprising black sales force in the years after World War II.PARIS: The Secret History, by Andrew Hussey. (Bloomsbury, $32.50.) Hussey investigates the dark side of the city's past, from the point of view of its marginal and subversive elements.CONSOLATION, by Michael Redhill. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) A horde of 1850s photos links the two strands of this tricky, absorbing novel. The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); WRITERS (78%); HOMICIDE (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); BAIL (72%); LAWYERS (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); ARMIES (53%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (75%); MITCH ALBOM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (76%); URUGUAY (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



243 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3359 words

HEADLINE: It's Alive! Meet One of Biotech's Zombies

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: BERKELEY, CALIF. 

 BODY:
EVERY year, Dr. Patrick J. Scannon spends a month hacking through jungles and wading through the crocodile-filled swamps of Palau, a sprawling archipelago in the South Pacific. His hobby -- his obsession, really -- is to find the wrecks of American fighter planes shot down during World War II and the remains of the crews that once flew them. 
 ''When you meet the families, who for the last 60 years haven't known what happened to their family members, and you see the closure that comes from that, it's a big deal,'' he said.
Dr. Scannon has brought the same determination to his day job -- as founder and chief biotechnology officer at Xoma Ltd., one of the nation's oldest biotech companies. But discovering drugs has proved more difficult than uncovering plane wrecks, and in that endeavor Dr. Scannon has yet to achieve closure. 
 Xoma, which Dr. Scannon started in 1981, has never earned an operating profit or marketed a drug of its own. And in the quarter-century since its birth, Xoma has managed to burn through more than $700 million raised from investors and other pharmaceutical companies. 
 In most other industries, companies could not survive that long -- and churn through piles of cash -- without turning a profit. But Xoma, while perhaps an extreme case, illustrates a truism of the ever-promising biotechnology business: For every successful company like Amgen, there are many more that never make it or that take huge amounts of time and money before they do.
 Other unprofitable companies, like ImmunoGen, Repligen, Immunomedics, Biopure and Cytogen, have been around roughly as long as Xoma. OSI Pharmaceuticals, which expects to finally break into the black this year on sales of a cancer drug, has lost $1.3 billion since its inception in 1983. 
 ''It's sort of baffling in a way, an industry that stays afloat, sort of defying the laws of economic gravity,'' said Gary P. Pisano, a Harvard Business School professor. ''After 20 years or 15 years, you kind of would expect companies to be profitable or be gone. You just kind of wonder: Is this an efficient way for industry to operate?'' 
 Mr. Pisano's answer, put forth in a new book, ''Science Business: The Promise, the Reality and the Future of Biotech,'' is that the biotechnology industry is inefficient -- or at least no more efficient at drug development than traditional big pharmaceutical companies. That conclusion runs contrary to popular belief that scrappy, driven biotechnology entrepreneurs can run rings around the bureaucratic drones of Big Pharma. 
 Biotechnology has been ''one of the biggest money-losing industries in the history of mankind,'' Arthur D. Levinson, chief executive of Genentech, told analysts in New York last year. He estimated that the biotech industry as a whole has lost nearly $100 billion since Genentech, the industry pioneer and one of its most successful companies, opened its doors in 1976. Only 54 of 342 publicly traded American biotech companies were profitable in 2006, according to Ernst & Young.
 Most biotech enterprises face a host of daunting challenges. While they can work much more nimbly than their brethren in Big Pharma, they also lack some of the hard-won experience that large corporations bring to the drug pipeline. Moreover, biotech companies often aim at harder-to-conquer diseases and use more experimental technologies, further complicating their quests.
 Part of the magic of American capitalism is, of course, that torrents of money are available to fund inspiring start-ups that may amount to nothing more than ill-conceived fliers. At the same time, torrents of good money also often chase torrents of bad money, regardless of the flaws behind certain ideas or products. Nowhere, perhaps, do these two dynamics coexist as visibly and as starkly as they do in the biotech business.
 Much of that is explained by the fact that investors are willing to keep underperforming biotech companies on life support because they are looking for the rare hit that will make them rich -- or even a stock that can rise modestly. For every round of investors who get burned, there always seem to be others willing to buy in, usually at a far lower price, to fund the next project. The companies themselves can cut expenses to the bone to stay in operation, allowing them to plod on for years in a zombielike state. 
 ''These biotechs never die,'' said Samuel D. Isaly, managing partner of OrbiMed Advisors, an asset management company that invests heavily in the sector. ''They just find someone else they can convince or someone else who likes Kool-Aid.''
 XOMA, which went public 20 years ago, is a case study of unfulfilled promise in the biotech business. It may also be a story that ends happily, if very belatedly, with success. The company's management and some investors, including OrbiMed, say they are convinced that what they describe as Xoma's dogged determination is finally making headway, or at least that its stock has room to grow. 
 The company's stock has nearly doubled over the last year, hitting a 52-week high on Friday of $3.30, before closing at $3.04. Still, that is well below the stock's record high of $32 a share, reached in both 1987 and 1991. 
 Xoma has had one setback after another in drug development -- on drugs for bacterial infections, acne and a complication of bone marrow transplants. In some cases, this was because the technology it chose, monoclonal antibodies, wasn't quite ready for prime time. And some of the diseases it went after were hard to treat.
 Some of this is endemic to the biotech sector. Profitability is elusive because it takes about seven or eight years, on average, to bring a drug to market, according to the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development. Moreover, only one of five drugs that are tested on humans get to market. Big drug companies can better handle these blows because they work on dozens of drugs at once and, though most fall by the wayside, a few will cross the finish line. Smaller companies like Xoma typically focus their limited resources on one or two drugs. If those fail, a whole new seven- or eight-year development cycle kicks in. 
 YET even Xoma's successes have been limned with problems. It did help develop Genentech's psoriasis drug, Raptiva, in exchange for a cut of any profits the product generated. But Raptiva, approved in 2003, has had disappointing sales, dashing the hopes of Xoma executives that the drug would help lead their company to profitability. 
 Such disappointments have been routinely blunted at Xoma by a revolving door of financial backers and emergency cost-saving measures that have given the company shots of adrenaline or helped keep it breathing: it brought in big drug companies as partners to shoulder some of its costs, it laid off employees to lower the rate at which it burned through cash, and it found investors willing to focus on the potential windfall offered by the next exciting drug.
 ''All along the way, we've had investors willing to believe in us,'' Dr. Scannon said in an interview in his office here. Soft-spoken, with a trim white beard, Dr. Scannon, 59, seems little like a jungle bushwhacker. He believes that potential investors ''sense our dedication, and they also sense the scope of our capabilities.'' 
 New cadres of Xoma investors, however, have usually bought shares at lower prices than those paid by earlier investors, substantially diluting the ownership stakes of the previous shareholders. When it went public in 1986, Xoma sold its shares for $16 apiece. In 2005, it raised $60 million through a debt offering that allowed investors to convert their stakes to shares worth $1.87 each.
 Xoma executives say that such patience and trust will start to pay off for its investors. At long last, they say, Xoma is poised to turn a profit in 2008. They say the company will pull off this feat without needing to have a single one of its drugs approved, because it sells access to technologies and excess manufacturing capacity it has developed over decades. The field of monoclonal antibodies -- which are customized versions of the proteins the body uses to fight germs and are the company's specialty -- is hot right now, and large companies like Schering-Plough and Takeda have brought Xoma aboard to help them develop such drugs. 
 The federal government has also enlisted Xoma in the biodefense effort, giving it two contracts worth a total of $31 million to help manufacture drugs to treat botulism. More than 45 companies, meanwhile, have licensed a Xoma technique for making proteins in bacteria. The first marketed drug made using that technology, Lucentis, Genentech's eye disease drug, was approved in June, and Xoma will be entitled to a royalty that analysts estimate at a little less than 1 percent on sales that could top $1 billion annually.
 IN all, Xoma has signed deals in the last two years that could bring in $250 million over a number of years -- if the drugs being developed succeed. 
 Rodman & Renshaw, a brokerage firm, began recommending Xoma's stock in January. ''What's old is new again,'' the analyst Michael G. King Jr. wrote, adding, ''After many fits and starts, we believe Xoma has rebuilt itself.'' 
 Many of Xoma's employees have joined the company in the last few years, and they say that there is a fresh spirit at the place. ''Xoma to me is like a start-up with infrastructure,'' says Mary Haak-Frendscho, vice president for preclinical research, who has worked for the company for four years.
 When Xoma actually was a start-up, back in 1981, it lacked the pedigree of many of the other early biotechnology companies like Genentech, Amgen, Biogen and Chiron. Academic superstars started each of those companies. In contrast, Dr. Scannon had just finished his medical residency and, despite his doctorate in chemistry, he remained a neophyte when it came to business. 
 ''I'd never talked to a venture capitalist,'' he recalls. ''I'd never talked to anyone.''
 But he began pounding the pavement in 1980 in search of investors, starting with physicians he knew. At first, the going was tough, he said. But in October of that year, Genentech went public and its stock soared on its first day of trading, from $35 to as high as $86. After that, Dr. Scannon said, investors sought him out. 
 Early investors were intrigued by Xoma's plans to develop monoclonal antibodies. The monoclonals were hailed at the time as potential ''magic bullets,'' able to home in on disease-causing molecules in the human body. 
 By the end of the 1980s, Xoma was in advanced testing of a drug to treat sepsis, a potentially fatal reaction by the body to bacterial infection. Pfizer had licensed the rights to market the drug. Xoma had a second drug, in a partnership with Johnson & Johnson, to treat a sometimes fatal complication of bone-marrow transplantation. In 1992, anticipating commercial success for its drugs, Xoma hired an experienced pharmaceutical executive, John L. Castello, as its chief executive. 
 But sepsis, a rapidly progressing disease, turned out to be a minefield, not only for Xoma but also for other companies that followed it. Within weeks of Mr. Castello's arrival, the company learned that the Food and Drug Administration would not approve the sepsis medicine. Drugs from other companies also failed to win approval, and it became apparent that monoclonal antibodies' day was yet to come. 
 Instead of a leading a commercial drug company, Mr. Castello found himself saddled with an enterprise in need of a turnaround. ''When I got here, I didn't expect to be sitting here 14 years later talking about getting profitable,'' says Mr. Castello, who is still at his post. 
 Rather than fold up shop, the company decided to keep fighting by moving on to the next project. This decision, Mr. Castello said, stemmed partly from a lesson he learned when he was a prize fighter in his youth: ''It's very difficult to beat somebody if they will not stay down on the floor.'' 
 At the time, Xoma still had $80 million and a drug it had licensed from New York University that was not yet in clinical trials. So it cut its number of employees twice over the next couple of years, raised some extra money at low stock prices and concentrated on the new drug, called bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein, or BPI, a bacteria-fighting substance made by certain human white blood cells. 
 But in 2000, the F.D.A. told Xoma and its partner, Baxter, that the data were not good enough for approval to treat meningococcemia, a deadly bacterial infection that largely afflicts children and can kill them within hours. Many of the patients died before they even received the drug, so the trials Xoma conducted could not demonstrate that the drug, called Neuprex, increased patients' survival rates. 
 In 2004, a derivative of BPI failed in a midstage clinical trial as a treatment for acne. Xoma officials said they thought that the drug would have worked had it penetrated the acne lesions better. For some Xoma investors, that was the last straw; the company's stock sank, briefly falling below $1 in April 2005. 
 Xoma still had one hope. Genentech, which had too many drug prospects to handle on its own, had earlier asked Xoma to help develop a new psoriasis drug. Xoma was to pay 25 percent of the costs and share 25 percent of the profits associated with the drug, called Raptiva. 
 Regulators approved Raptiva in 2003, but by Genentech's standards, the drug has been a dud, partly because of competition and partly because of dermatologists' and insurers' reluctance to prescribe and pay for newfangled, injected biotech drugs. Xoma, unable to shoulder its share of the marketing costs for Raptiva, renegotiated its partnership with Genentech. Now it gets a roughly 5 percent royalty on sales without having to contribute to marketing and developing costs. Sales in the first nine months of 2006 were a combined $115 million for Genentech and Serono, which sells the drug in Europe.
 IT was during the dark days at Xoma that Dr. Scannon began his quest for plane wrecks in Palau, a string of more than 200 islands about 600 miles east of the Philippines that was the scene of the one of the deadlier, if lesser-known, battles toward the end of World War II. 
 In 1993, Dr. Scannon and his wife, Susan, a former scuba diving instructor, were invited by friends on a diving mission to find a Japanese trawler sunk during the war by former President George H.W. Bush when he was a Navy pilot. Enthused after finding it, the Scannons hired a guide to see what other wrecks they could uncover. He took them to the jungle where they found a 65-foot wing and a twisted propeller. 
 So began the BentProp Project, which Dr. Scannon says has found about 25 wrecks of American planes and about 12 sets of remains. Like developing a drug, searching for a lost plane can take years of methodical research and lead down numerous false paths. Dr. Scannon and a team of about a half-dozen volunteers scour military archives, prod long-dormant memories from hundreds of veterans and Palauan elders and canvass Palauan fishermen and hunters for tips. Each year's monthlong mission takes the other 11 months to plan, with Dr. Scannon working on it most nights and weekends. 
 While in Palau, Dr. Scannon stays in touch with Xoma by spending as much as two hours a day on e-mail. Those who have seen him in the jungle say they are impressed with his fastidiousness and knowledge. 
 ''I learned more about my father in five minutes from Pat Scannon than I did in my whole life from the government,'' said Tommy Doyle, a high school football coach in Snyder, Tex., whose father, Jimmie, was lost over Palau in 1944. In 2004, after several years of searching, Dr. Scannon and his team found the wreck of the B-24 in 70 feet of water. 
 Dr. Scannon says his trips to Palau do not detract from his stewardship of his company. He also says that he has not become discouraged by Xoma's setbacks and that he is not envious of more successful competitors. On the wall in his office are three paintings of space aliens and U.F.O.'s, a reminder, he said, to focus on the future and the discoveries yet to be made. Others at the company seem to be following suit. Instead of being embarrassed by its age, Xoma displayed placards from its ceilings last year celebrating its 25th year in business. 
 Dr. Scannon and Mr. Castello, the chief executive, do not appear to have been under much pressure from Xoma's board to improve the company's performance. Directors range in age from 59 to their late 80s, and many have been on the board for years. Dr. Scannon and W. Denman Van Ness, a venture capitalist who was an original backer of the company, have been on the board since its inception. 
 DR. ARTHUR KORNBERG, an emeritus professor at Stanford and board member since 1991, said he stuck with the company because he was impressed by Xoma's ''capacity to do innovative and honest science.'' Dr. Kornberg, who won a Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1959, wrote off the lack of results, saying, ''They've been unlucky in a way that their work has not resulted in a blockbuster drug, but that's a matter of chance.''
 It does not appear that the board has come under pressure from outside shareholders.
 Dr. Greg Schmidt, a physician in Tulsa, Okla., has been an owner of Xoma stock since 1996, selling some of his stake when prices rose and buying back when prices dropped. As for management, he says, ''I don't think there's any other management in the entire universe that could have kept that company alive.''
 Mr. Castello, who has been paid a base salary of $500,000 every year, is now 70. He seems intent on hanging on until Xoma achieves profitability and then retiring. ''I have an interest in getting where we're going and fading into the sunset,'' he said. 
 With monoclonal antibodies now back in favor, there is some speculation that Xoma, which has a market capitalization of about only $308 million, could be acquired by a company wanting that technology. AstraZeneca and Merck have acquired other antibody companies in the last year. 
 Even with the prospect of profitability, the company is still in a relatively weak financial position. It probably could not afford to license a product from another company to bolster its pipeline. 
 It is also adding more debt to its balance sheet, having recently borrowed $35 million from Goldman Sachs. And while its new strategy of servicing other companies depends on those drugs becoming successful, companies like Allergan, Cubist and Onyx have dropped drugs they were working on with Xoma.
 Moreover, mere profitability is not really the payoff that biotech companies aim for, and servicing other companies only allows Xoma to stay alive longer until it can develop its own drugs. 
 THE company hopes to win approval by 2009 for Neuprex as a treatment for meningococcemia in Europe under new rules granting easier approvals for certain drugs. It plans to restart trials this year on its acne drug using a new formulation that it believes is better able to penetrate acne lesions. It is in early clinical trials, in partnership with Novartis, on a cancer drug. And it hopes to begin human testing of an arthritis drug this year. 
 But a big hit is still likely to be several years away. 
 ''We can't see yet the thing that would give us the greater, the Xoma-writ-large story,'' said David Webber, an analyst at First Albany who has followed Xoma since the 1980s, and is one of just a handful of analysts who cover the stock. He rates it neutral. 
 Dr. Scannon himself acknowledges that he is still pursuing drugs, as he set out to do a quarter-century ago. ''Our core strategy right now is financial sustainability, and we're going to use every vehicle to achieve that,'' he says. ''But at heart you should understand that we have been and will remain a pharmaceutical development company.'' 
 So Dr. Scannon still faces years of slashing through thickets -- the scientific sort that Xoma confronts and the leafier, greener versions in the jungles of Palau. He departs for the South Pacific tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Patrick J. Scannon combs the jungles of Palau in the South Pacific each year. The rest of the time he helps lead Xoma, the biotech company. (Photo by Dave Major/BentStarProject.org)(pg. 9)
Xoma scientists are working to develop three new drugs, for acne, cancer and arthritis, but a big hit is likely to be years away. (Photo by Eros Hoagland for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Cycle of Hope and Failure''Xoma has burned through more than $700 million and never earned a profit from operations, but it's a survivor.Graph tracks the weekly closing price of Xoma shares since 1987.Two drugs on the verge of commercialization fail to win F.D.A. approval in the early 1990s.Xoma joins with Genentech to develop a psoriasis drug, Raptiva.A drug to treat a deadly bacterial infection does not win F.D.A. approval.Raptiva is approved by the F.D.A. but does not sell well.A drug to treat acne fails in a midstage clinical trial.Other Biotech Companies, Unprofitable but Still AfloatCOMPANY: Ligand PharmaceuticalsFOUNDED: 1987PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: Cancer and pain drugs, some now sold offCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: $1,000COMPANY: BiopureFOUNDED: 1984PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: A veterinary blood substituteCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 526COMPANY: CytogenFOUNDED: 1980PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: Two drugs, one imaging agentCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 419COMPANY: Immune ResponseFOUNDED: 1986PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: NoneCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 355*COMPANY: PoniardFOUNDED: 1984PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: NoneCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 273COMPANY: ImmunoGenFOUNDED: 1981PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: NoneCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 245COMPANY: ImmunomedicsFOUNDED: 1982PRODUCTS ON MARKET IN U.S.: Diagnostic productsCUMULATIVE DEFICIT (as of September 2006) in millions: 206*As of March 31(Sources by Xoma
 Bloomberg Financial Services)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CANCER DRUGS (68%); CANCER (68%); LITERATURE (66%); WORLD WAR II (57%) Medicine and Health; Biotechnology; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Books and Literature; Industry Profiles; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: XOMA CORP (94%); AMGEN INC (58%); IMMUNOMEDICS INC (53%); OSI PHARMACEUTICALS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Xoma Ltd

TICKER: XOMA (NASDAQ) (94%); XOM (FRA) (94%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%); IMMU (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack; Patrick J (Dr) Scannon; Gary (Prof) Pisano

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) PALAU (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



244 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: When It Comes to Innovation, Geography Is Destiny

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN our celebrity-studded world, where we make a cult of genius and individual achievement, the mind rebels at the notion that geography trumps personality. Yet the inescapable lesson of the iPod, Google, eBay, Netflix and Silicon Valley in general is that where you live often trumps who you are.
 Just ask Sim Wong Hoo. About seven years ago, I met Mr. Sim in Singapore, where he was born and was then living. He talked about the rising creativity of Singaporeans and with a flourish, as if to dramatically make his point, he pulled out a prototype of a hand-held music player that he insisted would replace Sony's famous Walkman.
Mr. Sim's device was breathtaking, possessing all the elements of what we now know as the MP3 player. Yet today, a Silicon Valley icon, Apple, dominates the market for MP3 players with the iPod. In recognition of its emergence as a music powerhouse, last month Apple dropped the word ''computer'' from its name. 
 Some months after my Singapore encounter, I visited the thriving code-writing communities in Tallinn, Estonia; Reykjavik, Iceland; and Helsinki, Finland, three Nordic cities that were being transformed by advances in cellphones, mobile computing and the Internet. Their tight-knit network of engineers seemed poised to create the tools required to make good on a much-hyped prediction: the death of distance. After all, if necessity is the mother of invention, no one had more need than the hardy Estonians, Icelanders and Finns, living on the frozen edge of Europe, when it came to killing distance as a barrier.
 Yet these Nordic innovators were blindsided by two Silicon Valley engineers whose tools we experience whenever we ''Google'' the Web. Their company, Google Inc., posted a quarterly profit of $1 billion on Jan. 31.
 Google's astonishing rise and Apple's reinvention are reminders that, when it comes to great ideas, location is crucial. ''Face-to-face is still very important for exchange of ideas, and nowhere is this exchange more valuable than in Silicon Valley,'' says Paul M. Romer, a professor in the Graduate School of Business at Stanford who is known for studying the economics of ideas.
 In short, ''geography matters,'' Professor Romer said. Give birth to an information-technology idea in Silicon Valley and the chances of success seem vastly higher than when it is done in another ZIP code.
 No wonder venture capitalists, who finance bright ideas, remain obsessed with finding the next big thing in the 50-mile corridor between San Jose and San Francisco. About one-quarter of all venture investment in the United States goes to Silicon Valley enterprises. And, according to a new report from Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, a regional business group, the percentage has risen, to 27 percent in 2005 from 21 percent in 2000.
 Many times in the past, pundits have declared an end to Silicon Valley's hegemony, and even today there are prognosticators who see growing threats from innovation centers in India and China. Certainly, great technology ideas can come from anywhere, but they keep coming from Silicon Valley because of two related factors: increasing returns and first-mover advantage. 
 These twin principles, debated in head-scratching terms by professional economists, essentially explain why Intel maintains a lead in high-performance chips, why Apple sustains a large lead in music players and why Google's search engine remains a crowd pleaser.
 On a gut level, we all can understand how these two factors work. Who wouldn't want to play for a perennial contender? For the same reason that Andy Pettitte signs with the Yankees, the best and the brightest technologists from around the world make their way to northern California.
 ''All that venture capital attracts a lot of ideas -- and the people who are having those ideas,'' said Stephen B. Adams, an assistant professor of management at the Franklin P. Perdue School of Business at Salisbury University in Maryland who has studied the rise of Silicon Valley.
 Newcomers plug into an existing network of seasoned pros that ''isn't matched anywhere else in the world,'' says AnnaLee Saxenian, dean of the School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of ''Regional Advantage,'' a book about the competitive edge held by tech centers like Silicon Valley and the Route 128 suburbs near Boston. ''That allows people to recombine technical ideas much more quickly here than anywhere else,'' Professor Saxenian added.
 ''In terms of creativity, the Valley remains as far ahead of the rest of the world as ever,'' she said. ''People in the Valley generate new ideas and test them much more quickly than anywhere else. They aren't a super race; it's their environment.''
 Silicon Valley is not invincible. The logic of increasing returns and the first-mover advantage can be overdrawn. Other clusters in the United States and around the world will commercialize great ideas, and the Valley will endure down cycles again, as it has in the past. Remember how the Japanese conquered memory-chip manufacturing in the 1980s, until then a staple of the Valley's business? And, of course, the dot-com bust of five years ago remains a painful reminder of how success breeds hubris and humiliating failure.
 Americans naturally harbor many fears about losing their edge, especially with the nation mired in war, the dollar's value sliding and the health care system strained. Rivals, notably in India and China, see Silicon Valley's pre-eminent position as a prize that they will inevitably take. Yet they face an elusive foe. Every time Silicon Valley recovers from failure, it seems to grow more durable, almost in the same way a person becomes ''immune'' to a disease after a brush with it. 
 Fifty years ago, chips were the engine of Silicon Valley. In the late 1970s came the personal computer and data-storage drives, then software, and more recently the dynamic vortex of the Web, new media and online commerce. (EBay, Netflix and, of course, Google and Yahoo are among the names that come to mind.)
 These serial renewals are a marvel.
 SIR PETER HALL, the British scholar of urban clusters, asks in ''Cities in Civilization,'' his history of geography and business innovation: ''What makes a particular city, at a particular time, suddenly become immensely creative, exceptionally innovative? Why should this spirit flower for a few years, generally a decade or two at most, and then disappear as suddenly as it came?''
 Sir Peter's words highlight an enduring human mystery. In the case of Silicon Valley, the world rightly waits for the flame of creativity to burn out. That's fair enough. To each, a season (or maybe a few). Living long and large, Silicon Valley surely will wither like a dead flower someday. My advice, though, is: Don't hold your breath.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUDIO (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); ENGINEERING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); APPLE INC (85%); NETFLIX INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

PERSON: G Pascal Zachary

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SINGAPORE (93%); ICELAND (90%); FINLAND (90%); ESTONIA (87%); EUROPE (79%) Silicon Valley (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



245 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Memo to Shareholders: Shut Up

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
TO all those public company shareholders who are trying to make directors more accountable to owners and more watchful over executives: Cheer up. Your efforts seem to be gaining genuine traction. 
 How do we know? Martin Lipton told us so.
Mr. Lipton, of course, is the nation's pre-eminent takeover lawyer and founding partner of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. He invented the poison pill in the 1980s, a device that entrenched me-first managers threatened by takeover artists. More recently, Mr. Lipton has become the apologist for embattled chief executives who don't like shareholders sounding off on excessive pay and cozy boards. 
 Last week, he sounded a grave warning at the 25th annual Institute on Federal Securities in Miami. ''Today shareholder activism is ripping through the boardrooms of public corporations and threatening the future of American business,'' he said in a keynote speech to the legal and corporate crowd that had assembled. Directors are under siege, he averred, thanks to shareholder activists who are ''destroying the role, focus and collegiality of the board of directors.'' 
 Finally, Mr. Lipton thundered: ''We cannot afford continuing attacks on the board of directors. It is time to recognize the threat to our economy and reverse the trend.''
 As part of his speech, Mr. Lipton also asked such fundamental questions as whether qualified people would agree to serve as directors in the current environment and whether directors would become so risk-averse that their companies would suffer. 
 Those are both worthwhile topics for a reasoned, probing discussion. But the sheer desperation in Mr. Lipton's speech, called ''Shareholder Activism and the Eclipse of the Public Corporation,'' subverted the more intellectually challenging elements of his argument, leaving what remained something of a rant. As such, it may have been the best proof yet that shareholders' rightful demands to make directors more accountable are getting results. 
 Mr. Lipton did not return a phone call seeking comment.
 Mr. Lipton is a sophisticated, savvy lawyer. But his thesis -- that owners are bent on wrecking the companies they have bought and upon which they hope to build a prosperous retirement -- doesn't make much sense. He seems to see shareholders as infants who should stay in their cribs and leave big corporate decisions to wise men on the board, in the corner suite and, of course, in law offices. 
 ''It's almost like listening to a small boy who has lost his favorite toy -- in this case the poison pill that is held in disrepute,'' said Herbert A. Denton, president of Providence Capital in New York. As an adviser to minority shareholders, Mr. Denton has faced the likes of Conrad M. Black, the disgraced former chief executive of Hollinger and Richard Scrushy, former chief executive at HealthSouth. 
 ''I've sat on nine different boards,'' Mr. Denton added. ''Sometimes it's collegial and sometimes hard questions need to be asked, but nobody's been hit by a plate yet.''
 If Mr. Lipton had focused his diatribe on marginal activists with kooky agendas or hedge funds keen on instant gratification, it would have been more credible. But he seems to consider even thoughtful people, who are trying to persuade directors to exercise their fiduciary duties, as enemies of corporate America.
 Frederick E. Rowe Jr., a money manager in Dallas and president of Investors for Director Accountability, is an example. His organization, founded last year by a group of entrepreneurs and businesspeople, is working to remind directors of their duties to shareholders. 
 ''Resistance makes people think clearly and a C.E.O. does a better job if he has smart people who make him spell out what he's going to do,'' Mr. Rowe said. ''That includes directors who think, act, vote and hold management to account like interested, informed, long-term owners.''
 One of Mr. Lipton's most persistent themes is the death -- boohoo -- of collegiality in the boardroom. ''Many director candidates are declining to serve on boards,'' he said, ''due to the unpleasantness of filling out extensive questionnaires to enable appropriate disclosures and qualification determinations.'' 
 Service on a board used to be such fun. Now that there are so many pesky details involved, we're taking our marbles and going home.
 If shareholders are wreaking such havoc in the boardroom by, for example, filing nettlesome lawsuits against able directors, wouldn't the costs of directors' and officers' liability insurance be skyrocketing as a result? 
 Yes. But instead they have plummeted. Loretta Waters, vice president at the Insurance Information Institute in New York, said that rates on so-called D.& O. insurance fell almost 40 percent in 2005, dropped an additional 10 percent last year and would probably decline again this year. 
 ''Directors are under greater pressure by shareholders to be more transparent, provide more information,'' Ms. Waters said. ''I would say that the changes in corporate governance practices and transparency to shareholders as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have likely contributed to the decline in D.& O. rates.''
 If the public corporation is an endangered species, as Mr. Lipton argued, it is not because of shareholders. Those who owned stock in Enron, WorldCom, Adelphia and Tyco did not create the scandals that rocked those companies and sowed mistrust among others. Selfish managers and passive directors did that work handily. 
 Almost everyone gets nostalgic, of course. And Mr. Lipton may pine for the days when the poison pill reigned supreme, his chief-executive clients were safe and boards resided quietly in their Amen corner. 
 But those days are over. Greater shareholder involvement in director elections and other board matters is coming, in part because so much wealth has been destroyed at companies with lax oversight. Mr. Lipton's fear-mongering about its consequences will please his corporate clients, but it won't stop the train.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); TRENDS (73%); ETHICS (67%); BONDS (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Boards of Directors; Ethics

COMPANY: WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (50%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (50%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (50%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Martin Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



246 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Four Reasons for Your Portfolio to See the World

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
FOR the second consecutive year, mutual fund investors poured a record amount of money into foreign stock funds. And for the second consecutive year, this has led to a good deal of hand-wringing on Wall Street. After all, similar euphoria greeted technology stocks in the late 1990s and the housing market during much of this decade. 
 The giddy mood may be most obvious in emerging-markets stocks. Last year, investors poured nearly $14 billion of net new money into funds with holdings in the still-risky emerging economies of Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, according to Citigroup Investment Research. That was about 15 percent more than they invested in domestic stock funds in 2006. 
This marks a big change in investor behavior. Tobias M. Levkovich, Citigroup's chief United States equity strategist, pointed out in a recent research report that over the past 10 years, domestic stock funds have pulled in around 27 times the money that emerging-market funds attracted each year, on average.
 But the emerging markets are only a small part of the international picture. Last year, the bulk of international fund flows -- in fact, more than $134 billion -- went into foreign stock funds that invest in the more stable, developed markets of Western Europe and Japan. 
 And when it comes to investing in these markets, ''fundamental factors validate the fund flows,'' said Alec Young, international equity strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research.
 Despite five consecutive years of outperforming the S.& P. 500 index of domestic blue-chip stocks, foreign shares in general still look as attractive -- or, in many cases, more so -- than domestic stocks, many investors say.
 And here are some of the reasons:CORPORATE PROFIT GROWTH -- While earnings growth among French and British companies is on part with earnings in the United States, overall corporate profit growth in Europe is expected to exceed that of domestic companies this year, said Mike Thompson, managing director of global research at Thomson Financial.
 For example, earnings for the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index -- a benchmark representing equities in 18 European markets -- are expected to climb 8 percent this year, according to Thomson Financial. That's ahead of the 7 percent growth anticipated for the S.& P. 500.
 In Japan, meanwhile, corporate profits are predicted to jump around 14 percent in 2007, according to Mr. Young. That's comparable to the projected earnings growth rate for the emerging markets.LOWER VALUATIONS -- In general, valuations are still lower outside the United States. Despite the run-up in the price of foreign shares lately, there is ''still substantial relative value overseas,'' said Simon L. Davis, co-portfolio leader for the Putnam International Equity fund. 
 To be sure, ''valuations have narrowed, because obviously the emerging markets have had a strong run, as have the developed non-U.S. markets,'' Mr. Davis said. But many international stock markets in continental Europe still trade at far cheaper prices than the domestic market. 
 Based on estimated 2007 earnings, for example, German and French stocks are trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of around 13, on average, according to Thomson. And the FTSE 100 index of blue-chip stocks on the London Stock Exchange trades at a mere 12.4 times estimated earnings for 2007. 
 By comparison, domestic stocks have a P/E of around 15.4, based on the S.& P. 500.THE DECLINING DOLLAR -- The dollar is still expected to lose value in the coming months. After weakening in 2006 against the euro, ''most people don't see a lot of reason why the dollar would appreciate'' this year, Mr. Thompson said. 
 One reason is that the Federal Reserve stopped raising short-term interest rates last year and appears to be in a holding pattern that could leave rates steady for the remainder of 2007.
 Central banks around the world, meanwhile, still seem to be tightening their monetary policies. That means money parked in dollars in the United States will earn about as much as it did last year, while investors who hold their money abroad could see a bump up in yields.
 And should the dollar continue to lose value against global currencies, domestic investors will be rewarded by moving some cash overseas, even if the underlying stock markets in those countries don't gain much ground.
 That's because, whenever the dollar loses value, it serves as a tailwind for Americans investing overseas. Each share of foreign stock that Americans own will become worth that many more dollars when the securities are eventually sold and repatriated back to the United States.A NEED TO DIVERSIFY -- In recent years, individual investors have been building up their foreign holdings dramatically, but many portfolios are still out of balance. 
 At the end of 2002, only 2.7 percent of 401(k) money was held in foreign stocks, according to Hewitt Associates. That represented around 4.5 percent of a typical worker's stake in stocks.
 Today, 9.2 percent of the average 401(k) is held in foreign stocks, representing about 13 percent of the typical investor's stock allocation.
 Given that more than half of the world's stock market capitalization resides in companies based outside the United States, that's still a modest amount. So don't be surprised if many investors continue to build their foreign equity stakes, especially as they become more and more comfortable with investing their money internationally.
 But keep in mind that while investors in general may still be underweighted in foreign equities, many individuals already have too much.
 Mr. Young said investors should probably keep about 15 percent of their total portfolios in developed-market foreign shares, with an additional 5 percent or so in emerging-market stocks. Once you achieve those levels, ''you have to rebalance regularly,'' he said.
 In other words, if your foreign stake grows to 25 percent of your total holdings, be prepared to sell into the rally and take some of that money off the table, Mr. Young said. 
 He stressed: ''These assets should be thought of as long-term core holdings, not some hot asset class to chase.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); DAVIS CO INC (60%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: MIKE THOMPSON (53%) Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



247 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: How to Improve Your Golf Game (Lessons Not Included)

BYLINE: By DENNIS BLANK

 BODY:
TO say that Tim Smith, 43, a mortgage broker from Fayetteville, Ga., near Atlanta, is an avid golfer would be an understatement. 
 Mr. Smith, who golfs at least once a week, spends $1,500 a year on golf equipment and clothing for himself and his wife, Melanie, who is also a golfer. An additional $500 to $700 a month goes toward club membership dues, green fees and golf cart rentals. He also spends $3,000 a year on entry fees for his 16-year-old son, Tyler, who plays in junior regional golf tournaments.
Having the right clubs in his bag is very important to Mr. Smith, but he only buys new ones if he is certain that they will improve his game. ''I tend to be a little less trendy,'' he said. ''I have got some brand loyalty in my bag, which is Titleist.'' 
 Helped by families like the Smiths, club makers and assorted equipment providers expect sales to reach nearly $4 billion this year, up slightly from last year.
 On the whole, the golf industry in the United States generates $62.2 billion a year in sales, which covers everything from tourism to course operation, according to Joe Steranka, chief executive of the PGA of America.
 Over all, the PGA is estimating only very small growth in some parts of the industry. Last year was the first in six decades that the number of course closings (146) exceeded new openings (119), the PGA said. 
 In addition, the number of rounds played on an 18-hole golf course, on average, dropped to 31,000 a year in 2006 from 33,000 the year before. 
 A bright spot for the industry remains the ''Tiger factor.'' ''Tiger Woods has had a multimillion-dollar economic impact every year for our golf industry,'' Mr. Steranka said.
 Because of the continued excitement about Tiger Woods, more children -- some as young as 3 -- are hitting golf balls. ''Many more golf courses are making time for family golf,'' said Nancy Berkley, an industry consultant based in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. ''It is a very strong trend.'' 
 Companies like U.S. Kids Golf in Norcross, Ga., are capitalizing on the trend, starting children with a bag of five specially designed clubs for less than $130. 
 Innovations in club manufacturing, meanwhile, are generating new business among adults. This year, the Callaway Golf Company and Nike introduced new drivers with square-shaped heads that the companies contend can help golfers hit the ball straighter and farther. The Nike SasQuatch Sumo2 will retail for about $325 while Callaway will start selling its FT-i driver this week for around $600.
 About 1.75 million drivers are sold annually in the United States at an average price of $400, according to estimates from Nike. Amateur players tend to buy a new driver every year and a new set of irons every five years, the PGA says.
 ''Consumers are interested in a golf club that can hit the ball farther and straighter, and we are putting the focus on the majority of our efforts into that,'' said Bill Knees, senior vice president of marketing. Callaway, based in Carlsbad, Calif., had revenue of $992 million last year.
 Even golf balls are getting a makeover. This month, the Caesar Golf Company in Los Angeles will start selling smooth golf balls at $60 for a half-dozen -- veering away from the traditional dimples. A lack of dimples will help eliminate hooks and slices, says Vin Lee, chief executive of Caesar. The best-selling golf balls from Callaway and Titleist all have dimples, and prices range from $27 to $70 a dozen. 
 Jason Epstein, the golf professional at the Biltmore Hotel in Coral Gables, Fla., both gives lessons and sells clubs. He contends that golfers are needlessly ''spending a ton of money'' on new equipment when they really need more lessons. (He charges $50 or so for a half-hour.) 
 But Charles Finch, 63, a retired Delta Air Lines pilot from Greensboro, Ga., who spends $1,500 to $2,000 a year on new clubs, golf shirts and shoes, says that buying new equipment can improve his game. ''When you invest in a driver, you have to know it is going to perform better,'' he said.
 Mr. Finch also pays $300 a session for high-tech scrutiny of his golf swing at the TaylorMade Performance Lab at the Reynolds Plantation resort in Greensboro. He says that this kind of analysis, which includes a three-dimensional image of his swing, is important before buying a new club.
 Bob Mauragas, vice president for golf operations at the Greensboro resort, said the computerized analysis enabled golfers to be better matched with the right clubs. 
 ''The average person wants to play better, but they are not going to practice more,'' he said. ''All this new technology is going to lead to enhancement.''
 GOLFERS are also spending more as they travel to check out exotic and challenging courses.
 David M. Baum, publisher of Golf Odyssey, a newsletter that reviews domestic and overseas resorts, said the golf tourism business was thriving because more couples with more disposable income were playing.
 The cost of playing golf varies widely. Players can spend $450 for 18 holes at the Pebble Beach Golf Links in California, or just $20, for example, for an afternoon at the Dubsdread Golf Course in Orlando, Fla.
 And for golfers who do not want to drag along their clubs on overnight trips, Lou Oberman, president of Short Game Travel Clubs Inc. of Del Mar, Calif., has packaged a grip and three screw-on wedges, a putter and practice balls into a canvas briefcase. It sells for $249.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new Callaway driver, left, and one from Nike. An estimated 1.75 million drivers are sold annually in the United States.
 Tim Smith tees off as his son, Tyler, and wife, Melanie, watch at the Whitewater Creek Country Club in Fayetteville, Ga. Families are giving a boost to the golf industry. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (94%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); TRENDS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); BRANDING (68%); SALES & SELLING (67%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (58%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Golf; Industry Profiles; Children and Youth; Sales; Finances

COMPANY: CALLAWAY GOLF CO (85%)

TICKER: ELY (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (85%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (89%) Tiger Woods; Dennis Blank

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



248 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Stock Market Slips on a Triple Threat

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market declined last week on rising oil prices, a disappointing forecast for memory-chip sales and concern that the Federal Reserve might be as likely to raise interest rates as to lower them. 
 The memory-chip forecast came on Friday, when Micron Technologies said prices of the chips it makes for MP3 players and digital cameras were likely to fall more than 30 percent this quarter amid an industry glut. That report depressed the shares of a range of technology companies.
On the same day, two Federal Reserve officials said the central bank would raise interest rates if the economy surged and inflation didn't settle into an acceptable range. 
 And the price of oil briefly rose above $60 a barrel in trading in New York on Friday, closing at $59.89, up from $59.02 the previous week.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 72.66 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 12,580.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.33 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 1,438.06. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.06 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 2,459.82. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.78 percent from 4.82 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Domino's PizzaNYSE: DPZ The pizza delivery service said it would buy back up to 13.9 million shares of its common stock as part of a recapitalization plan. The company also said it planned to pay a ''significant'' special cash dividend. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.82%EST. '07 P/E: 19.56MedImmuneNNM: MEDI The biotech company reported quarterly profits of $120.7 million, or 50 cents a share, versus a loss of $22.4 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier. It had sales of $528.7 million, below Wall Street's $555.5 million target. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.74WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.98%EST. '07 P/E: 36.53Avon ProductsNYSE: AVP The cosmetics company reported higher-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings, which rose to $184.1 million, or 41 cents a share, from $183.2 million, or 40 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 9 percent, to $2.8 billion. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.06%EST. '07 P/E: 24.38Royal Caribbean CruisesNYSE: RCL The cruise-line operator issued a weak first-quarter outlook, citing stagnant pricing. It also said it earned $46.6 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $3.6 million in the year-earlier period.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.02WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.51%EST. '07 P/E: 13.16Vornado Realty TrustNYSE: VNO The real estate investment trust pulled out of a high-profile bidding war for Equity Office Properties, which the Blackstone Group, the private equity giant, agreed to acquire for $55.50 a share, or $39 billion. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $133.34WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.37%EST. '07 P/E: 57.23Eastman KodakNYSE: EK The company said that it would cut as many as 3,000 more jobs as it continues its four-year transformation into a company based on digital imaging, with a focus on consumer photography and commercial printing. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.40WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.42%EST. '07 P/E: 25.32HasbroNYSE: HAS The toy company recalled nearly one million Easy-Bake Ovens after receiving 29 reports of children getting their fingers or hands caught in the electric toys. It also said that its fourth-quarter profit jumped 15 percent. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.38WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.49%EST. '07 P/E: 22.03LearNYSE: LEA The board of the auto-parts maker said it had agreed to accept a $2.8 billion buyout offer from American Real Estate Partners, the investment firm controlled by Carl C. Icahn, which plans to take the company private. FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.39WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.61%EST. '07 P/E: 20.47(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Composite Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



249 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: Cheers?; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Noir Lite: Beer's Good-Time Humor Turns Black

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
A NICE glass of beer can be a wonderful thing, something to kindle a warm feeling in the belly, a general sense of well-being and kinship with one's fellow humans, and to act as a lubricant to conversation. Yes, beer, as presented in advertisements of yesteryear like Lowenbrau's ''Here's to good friends,'' can be nice.
 But you'd never know it from a new crop of campaigns for America's top-selling beers, including last week's Super Bowl showcases, singled out for praise by advertising experts for their guffaw-generating potency.
Call them ''Kill your good friends'' ads. One spot for Bud Light, the top-selling beer in the United States, shows a game of rock, paper, scissors to decide who gets the last bottle. One fellow bashes his chum with an actual rock. Other party guests step past the loser sprawled on the lawn in a display of callousness that seems suited more to a crack den. 
 ''Always worth it,'' the on-screen slogan informs.
 A Coors Light commercial shows two tuxedoed men at a wedding declining Champagne with a ''yuck.'' One reveals to the other a case of beer under the table. The only problem is they need ice, which they obtain from a life-size ice sculpture of the just-married couple by hacking off the bride's head with a dinner fork. 
 America's largest brewers are still producing the more benign ads. But, reduced to relying on their light beers for profit and facing general eroding market share to hard liquor and imports, they are also introducing a new underlying theme: anything that delays a man's beer drinking is bad and must be eradicated, be it women, best friends, jobs, pets or children. In other words, whatever you have to do to get more beer, do it as quickly as possible.
 The brewers describe their thinking differently.
 Jenny Volanakis, a spokeswoman for Coors Brewing Company, said the wedding ad was not misogynistic. ''Weddings are a beer-drinking occasion,'' she said, ''and we were simply trying to take a humorous slant.''
 Bob Lacky, executive vice president for global industry development at Anheuser-Busch, also referred to the humor, not the content, of the ''Always worth it'' campaign, in replying to a question about what the slogan meant.
 ''The campaign,'' he wrote in an e-mail message, ''features humorous situations depicting people going to great lengths to get an ice-cold Bud Light.''
 Other products also nibble at the edges of a pessimistic approach. A recent Hummer ad showed an astronomer trading his economy car for a gas-guzzling H2 once he realizes a giant meteor is on a collision course to hit Earth. It's the end of the world as we know it, one is told, so better do what you can to feel fine. The tagline is, ''We're not saying, we're just saying.''
 At first glance, the ads, like a Will Ferrell comedy, seem to be mining the wry I-am-making-fun-of-myself-making-a-joke-even-as-I-make-a-joke brand of humor. They also benefit from expectations that beer commercials are lighthearted.
 But now the humor can be dark and even scary. In one Bud Light ad, a driver picks up a hitchhiker with an ax, despite his girlfriend's horrified protests, because the hitcher also has some Bud Light. Again: ''Always worth it,'' whether potential rape or ax murder.
 Gone from this breed of ad are characters like ''the twins,'' a pair of bikini-clad sex bombs featured in Coors Light spots a few years back, and other images that suggest beer can help its core audience, men in their early 20s, score hot young women. This was the ''Drink beer, get girl'' school of advertising.
 A 1996 study of adolescents' responses to beer ads by the Center for Science in the Public Interest found that ''advertisements typically associate beer consumption with sexual prowess, athleticism and social success, and show characters having fun in different social settings.'' As for ads set on the beach, the report noted that respondents associated qualities like ''good-looking,'' ''popular,'' ''cool,'' ''fun'' and ''happy'' with characters in the beach ads 10 times more than negative qualities like ''sad,'' ''mean,'' ''threatening'' or ''loud.'' In the new breed of ads, getting the girl is out.
 ''It's about getting the beer,'' said George Hacker, director of the alcohol policies project at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, who participated in the 1996 study and regards the situation as radically changed. ''Nothing is nearly as important as the beer.'' 
 Hard drinkers are more important than ever to the large brewers. Sales of standard Budweiser peaked at 50 million barrels in 1988 and dropped to 26 million barrels in 2006. Likewise, regular Coors sells half what it did at its peak, said Benj Steinman, publisher of Beer Marketer's Insights, a trade publication.
 This has left hope concentrated in the light beers. The top five best-selling beers in the United States are, in order, Bud Light, Budweiser, Miller Lite, Coors Light and Natural Light, Mr. Steinman said. But with sales for light beers basically flat in the last few years, the big brewers ''are really struggling for what's their identity going forward,'' Mr. Steinman said. (Miller Lite sales were down half a percent in 2006. Bud Light, which had three Super Bowl spots, was up 4 percent.) 
 Despite gestures brewers make to responsible drinking, 10 percent of beer drinkers drink 43 percent of reported beer consumption, according to a 1999 study in the Journal of Studies on Alcohol. Eric Shepard, executive editor of Alcohol Issues Insights, said the study was the most recent he was aware of, and using its figures estimated that a core drinker would be consuming nearly a gallon of beer a day.
 Forging an identity as sellers of oblivion to those who want it appears to be the strategy of the moment.
 Ms. Volanakis of Coors said the company had no intention of changing the strategy of its current ''Rocky Mountain cold refreshment'' campaign, which includes harder-edged ads like the one with the ice-bride decapitation. Coors Light has had six consecutive quarters of growth. 
 ''We know this campaign is working,'' she said. ''We see it in the numbers and from our own consumer testing. It has really been resonating.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dark Beer -- In a recent spate of ads, social drinking betrays an odd new underbelly of selfish, antisocial behavior. Above, a Bud Light drinker wields a six-pack, and an ax. Another Bud Light spot, left, features a face-slapping session among business colleagues. (Photo by Anheuser Busch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MARRIAGE (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); SCULPTURE (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Alcoholic Beverages; Advertising and Marketing; Beer; Sales

COMPANY: COORS BREWING CO (84%); LOEWENBRAEU AG (58%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (58%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (58%)

PERSON: Allen Salkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



250 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: T.R.? He's No T.R.

 BODY:
Whenever President Bush is being hammered for his environmental policies, as he has been recently for his timid approach to global warming, he heads for a national park to reveal a hidden kinship with nature and, in effect, to promise a new day. 
 He did so again last week, visiting Shenandoah National Park to announce a sizable increase in the National Park Service's budget. The photo op elicited suggestions from Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne that Mr. Bush was somehow channeling Teddy Roosevelt. From Tony Snow, the White House spokesman and resident fantasist, it prompted the incredible claim that Mr. Bush had in fact been ''keenly committed both to environmentalism and conservationism from the start.'' 
 From the start? The choice Mr. Bush faced on the day he took office was between two competing Republican approaches to environmental matters -- the callous disregard for the country's natural resources displayed during the Reagan years and the responsible stewardship of those same resources associated with Theodore Roosevelt. Mr. Bush unhesitatingly chose the former.
 The result was an across-the-board antiregulatory crusade aimed not only at undoing Bill Clinton's environmental legacy but also at weakening bedrock economic law stretching back to Richard Nixon. It was orchestrated by the ideologues and industry lobbyists whom Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney installed in nearly every important position where environmental policy is made. The one exception was Christie Whitman, who finally tired of being told to do industry's bidding and retired to private life after two uncomfortable years as boss of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 It is impossible to find Teddy Roosevelt's ghost in any of this. One suspects, for instance, that Roosevelt would have tried much harder to protect fragile landscapes than the Bush administration has in its frantic drive for more oil and gas resources in the Rocky Mountains. One suspects -- knows, even -- that Roosevelt, who started the national wildlife refuge system, would not have pushed for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
 Similarly, Roosevelt would not have declared -- as Gale Norton, Mr. Kempthorne's immediate predecessor, did in 2003 -- that America had already acquired enough protected wilderness; he would have demanded more. He would not have rolled back, as Ms. Norton did, environmental rules governing mining for gold, copper and lead. He would not have countenanced the demolition job that Mr. Bush's Forest Service has done on the web of forest protections it inherited from previous administrations. He would not have tried to scuttle one of the most important acts of environmental stewardship in many years, Mr. Clinton's roadless rule, which made 58.5 million acres of the national forests off limits to new road building and development. 
 And Roosevelt would certainly have kept his word. Mr. Bush made three big promises in this area in the 2000 campaign. One was to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas. He reneged on that one almost immediately. The second was to finance the federal government's core open space program, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, at its annual authorized level of $900 million. He has shortchanged it badly every year and this year he is asking for $85 million. 
 The third promise was to put more money into the national parks. Here history may give Mr. Bush higher marks, thanks largely to the entreaties of Mr. Kempthorne, who pressed for and received a commitment of $258 million in new spending this year and a guarantee of $1 billion over 10 years. The parks have been starved for years (and not just by this administration), and people who care about them have every reason to be pleased by the prospect of a substantial increase in the budget. 
 We can also hope, of course, that this represents a turnaround in Mr. Bush's thinking, and that in the next two years he will offer up an energy policy focused more on new technologies and conservation and less on the old extractive industries; a public lands policy that spares our last wild places; a meaningful strategy for global warming; and on and on into a Rooseveltian future. But neither gratitude for a few extra dollars for the parks nor our stubborn belief in the possibility of redemption should blind us to six years of bad policies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (93%); NATIONAL PARKS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); MOUNTAINS (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Editorials; National Parks, Monuments and Seashores ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



251 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Who's Afraid of the New Economy?

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Once, there was a bridge to the 21st century. But no major Democrat today speaks as confidently about globalization and technological change as Bill Clinton and Al Gore did a decade ago. No major Democrat today speaks as optimistically about free trade as Gordon Brown does in Britain. 
 In the Democratic Party today, neopopulists and economic nationalists are on the rise. The free-traders are on the defensive. The Democratic view of the global economy has grown unremittingly grim. When John Edwards talks about the economy, you think he's running for the Democratic nomination of 1932. 
 Which is why the report to be released tomorrow by the Democratic activist group Third Way is so remarkable. Here is a group of Democratic economists and strategists who are taking on the rising neopopulists.
 The first thing their report, ''The New Rules Economy,'' does is challenge the neopopulist depiction of economic reality. Neopopulists are good at describing the suffering in towns like Mansfield, Ohio, and Flint, Mich. But they act as if they've never been to Charlotte or Phoenix, where office parks are shooting up. 
 The authors of this report, Anne Kim, Adam Solomon, Jim Kessler and Stephen Rose, try to blend all the diverse pieces of American reality, and to expose what they call ''the myths of neopopulism.'' 
 The first myth, they write, is the myth of the failing middle class. It's true there are more households headed by young and old people, who tend to have lower incomes. But if you take households headed by people in their prime working years, 25 to 59, you find those people are not failing. Their median income is $61,000. If they are married, their median income is $72,000. Those are decent incomes in most parts of the country. 
 Moreover, their living standards are not stagnant. Between 1979 and 2005, the percentage of prime-age households making over $100,000 in current dollars rose by 12.7 percentage points. As Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said last week, incomes at all levels are rising; it's just that incomes at the upper end are rising much faster. 
 The Third Way authors also dispute recent warnings of wildly increasing income volatility. The main reason incomes have grown more volatile over the past decades is motherhood, they write. As women play a more significant role in the economy, their movements in and out of the labor force to care for children increase volatility.
 The report goes on to challenge the direst warnings about rising credit card debt (household assets have risen faster than debts), rising corporate profits (they are cyclical and pretty much normal for this stage in a recovery) and American decline. 
 The Third Way authors are not saying everything is hunky-dory -- far from it -- but they are saying Democrats tend to lose when they are relentlessly grim and when the reality they describe is detached from the reality most Americans experience. 
 Moreover, they are restating the truth neopopulists are loath to admit: that no nation on earth is better positioned to take advantage of an ever-more-open economy, and today's challenge is not to retard openness but enable more people to take part in it. 
 The second half of the report describes how government can help people adjust to the new economic rules. Frankly, I wish the authors had been a bit more creative here, asking, for example, why so many people don't heed the huge incentives to finish high school and college. There are deeper mental and cultural processes in play than can be dealt with by the usual mix of tax credits. 
 Still, the significance of the report is that at least some Democrats have the guts to take on the neopopulists, who are masters of vilification.
 In fact, their political method is based on vilification over explanation. They vilify unpatriotic executives, but the vast majority of job losses are caused by technological change, not outsourcing. They vilify overpaid C.E.O.'s, even though their pay packages have nothing to do with the stagnant wages of the unskilled. They vilify foreign governments for not living up to the rules of ''fair trade,'' even though developing countries could enforce every labor and environmental regulation under the sun and their workers would still be cheaper for low-skill tasks. 
 The neopopulist caucus in the Democratic Party is like the anti-immigrant caucus in the Republican Party. Both speak for loud and angry minorities who have been hurt by globalization. But the party that mistakes their experience for the central reality will doom itself for years to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (87%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CHILDREN (64%) United States Economy; Income; United States Economy

PERSON: AL GORE (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); GORDON BROWN (57%); BEN BERNANKE (56%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT, MI, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



252 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE RUN FOR 2008; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: In New Hampshire, Clinton Owns Up to Her Vote on Iraq War

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: CONCORD, N.H., Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Campaigning in New Hampshire for the first time as a presidential candidate, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton came under criticism at two appearances on Saturday for voting in 2002 for military action in Iraq, and even refused one man's request that she say that her vote was a mistake.
 While warmly received overall on this, her first visit to New Hampshire since 1996, Mrs. Clinton also sought to inoculate herself from the occasional Democratic antiwar anger. At a forum with 2,000 people in the state capital here, she first blamed President Bush for misusing her vote to go to war preemptively, and then obliquely questioned the Iraq positions of her two leading rivals for the Democratic nomination, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and John Edwards, former senator of North Carolina. 
While she did not refer to either by name, she said she could not solve Iraq by delivering a strong antiwar speech (like Mr. Obama gave on Saturday) or by calling for an immediate withdrawal of troops to end the war (as Mr. Edwards has done).
 ''It's very easy to go around saying, 'end the war now,' '' she told about 2,000 people in a high school gymnasium here. ''If we had a Democratic president, we would end the war.''
 ''I know that there is a great deal of frustration and anger and outrage, but we can't just wave a magic wand and make things change,'' she said about Iraq at another point. ''I wish we could. I wish I could give a speech and it would all be different, but that's not how our country works.''
 And in a nod to Mr. Edwards's fierce criticism of the war since leaving the Senate, she said, ''I'm still in the arena -- I'm still fighting to get those 60 votes,'' a reference to the number of voters that Senate Democrats are trying to muster for a nonbinding resolution opposing Mr. Bush's war plan.
 Mrs. Clinton's 2002 vote poses political peril for her candidacy; she has not repudiated her vote, as Mr. Edwards has done of his, and she lacks the record of consistent criticism against the war of Mr. Obama, who was not in the Senate in 2002. During one forum early Saturday in the economically struggling city of Berlin in northern New Hampshire, Mrs. Clinton used tough language to blame President Bush and his advisers for Iraq, asserting that they came into power in 2001 with an ''obsession'' to oust Saddam Hussein and resolve the ''unfinished business'' of the first Persian Gulf war. 
 ''From almost the first day they got into office,'' Mrs. Clinton said, ''they were trying to figure out how to get rid of Saddam Hussein. I'm not a psychiatrist; I don't know all of the reasons behind their concern, some might say their obsession.''
 While she tried to keep the audience of 300 people in Berlin focused on Mr. Bush, she was forced at one point to account for her own history on Iraq. One audience member, Roger Tilton of Nashua, asked her ''right here, right now, once and for all, without nuance'' to call her 2002 vote ''a mistake.''
 ''Until we hear you say that, we're not going to hear all these other great things you've said,'' Mr. Tilton said.
 In response, Mrs. Clinton repeated her standard talking points that she would never have cast it if she had had the intelligence information that she had now.
 She also tailored some of her remarks to the economic struggles of Berlin, a city of about 8,000 people that has been shedding jobs from its pulp and paper mills.
 ''I think there is a great opportunity for using wood for a fuel of the future, just like it was a fuel of the past,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''If we can provide the right incentives, and we can give people the extra help we need by tax incentives and other ways of creating new jobs, we can begin to do this.''
 In Concord, Senator Clinton also criticized President Bush for not asking Americans to make sacrifices or commitments. When an audience member reminded her, sympathetically, that Mr. Bush had suggested that Americans go shopping after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Mrs. Clinton picked up on that line.
 ''That's right, the only thing after 9/11 -- 'go shopping,' '' she said. ''I was just appalled by that.''
 Although Mrs. Clinton did not bring former President Bill Clinton with her, she tried to turn his popularity in New Hampshire to her advantage at several points, though she joked she would not be following his political playbook entirely.
 ''Probably the only thing that I'll try to do differently from my husband is not so many Dunkin' Donuts stops,'' Mrs. Clinton said, evoking the lore of Mr. Clinton's snacking habits during the 1992 presidential campaign. ''I honestly think Bill gained about 20 pounds in the New Hampshire primary, and I cannot afford that.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton speaking as a Democratic presidential candidate yesterday in Berlin, N.H. (Photo by Patrick Andrade for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



253 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: An Eye On Inflation As Growth Picks Up

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
TRADERS probably do not expect anything as seductive as a promise to cut interest rates in Ben S. Bernanke's update to Congress on the economy and Federal Reserve policy. But after months of talk about the perils of inflation, any hint of moderation on Wednesday is likely to be received with some affection. 
 Even that may be too much to hope for, Jonathan Golub, a strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, cautioned. Recent reports suggest that the economy is getting a second wind and growing strongly, keeping the threat of inflation very much alive.
''The belief that the economy would be meaningfully weakening doesn't seem to be coming through,'' Mr. Golub said. Fed statements lately have acknowledged that newfound strength, he said, and he thinks that the chairman's Congressional statement will do the same.
 ''He will reiterate the stand that the economy is on a good footing and, if anything, that he is more worried about inflation than economic weakness,'' he predicted.
 Worried, maybe, but probably not worried enough to do anything about it for the time being. Mr. Golub notes that the resurgence of growth has been accomplished without a serious increase in consumer prices, leaving the Fed free not to act.
 The current conditions remind him of those of the late 1990s, when ''the economy was doing well and there wasn't a ton of inflation out there,'' he said. In such a climate, he said, ''maybe the Fed just stands on the sideline and doesn't need to engage.''
 But a confirmation of the status quo by Mr. Bernanke may provide small comfort to investors accustomed to good news and rising share prices. ''It shouldn't be a surprise,'' Mr. Golub said of the Fed's tough talk, ''but the marketplace has a bullish bias.''
 ''Commodity prices are still high, and there's a tight labor market, so the Fed's posture is probably more hawkish than the Street wants to believe it is,'' he said. When Mr. Bernanke gives his Valentine's Day testimony, ''he won't say, 'We overdid the rate hikes and we're going to ease.' I can't imagine that's in the cards.''DATA WATCH -- A variety of economic reports will bracket Mr. Bernanke's appearance. A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts that the trade deficit report, scheduled for Tuesday, will show an expansion in December, to $59.6 billion from $58.2 billion in November.
 On Thursday, two indicators of manufacturing activity, capacity utilization and industrial production, are expected to show dips for January. A report the next day on the core Producer Price Index, which excludes food and energy, is forecast to show 0.2 percent growth in January, the same as in the previous month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BONDS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



254 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; YOUR TAXES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Money From Somewhere

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DON'T expect to hear much from the Democrats in Congress this year about rolling back President Bush's tax cuts.
 Do expect to hear a lot about narrowing the ''tax gap,'' which essentially means cracking down on tax cheats, and about cracking down on exotic tax-evasion schemes. And expect more attacks on the big oil companies.
But make no mistake: Democrats want to generate substantially more tax revenue, and much of that is likely to come from closer to home than a tax haven in the Caymans. 
 Hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes are owed to the government each year but are not being collected, said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. ''It's like somebody saying, you're in the will, but you're not going to get the money anyway,'' he said. ''We're still going to go after it.'' 
 The Democrats in control of Congress need to raise revenue for at least two basic reasons. The first is their own decision to reimpose ''pay-go'' budgeting rules. Aimed at instilling fiscal discipline in lawmakers, the pay-go rules require Congress to pay for any new spending programs or new tax breaks with savings elsewhere in the budget. 
 The second reason, in some ways, is more startling: the Democrats' own tax-cutting agenda. Lawmakers want to reduce or repeal the alternative minimum tax, a nightmarish parallel tax that was originally aimed at the very rich but is now engulfing millions of moderate-income families.
 Freezing the A.M.T. at last year's levels would cost $40 billion, just for 2007. Repealing it would cost $70 billion this year and well over $1 trillion over the next decade.
 Where might all the money come from? 
 The most alluring idea right now is to narrow the ''tax gap,'' a euphemism for cracking down on tax cheats. Based on an analysis of 46,000 audited tax returns from 2001, the Internal Revenue Service estimates that the government loses about $300 billion a year from people who either underreport income or underpay taxes. Of that, I.R.S. officials have said, as much as $100 billion a year could be fairly easy to recover.
 Who could be against going after tax cheats? Millions of people, if I.R.S. research offers any indication.
 The vast bulk of the missing $300 billion, officials estimate, is lost through garden-variety cheating by people who simply do not report everything they earn: self-employed painters and plumbers, small family businesses (from local florists and dry-cleaners to restaurants) and the growing legions who sell things over eBay and other Internet auction sites.
 Another big part of the ''tax gap'' comes from millions of people who cash in stocks each year but fudge on their capital gains. 
 And while no lobbyist would ever defend tax cheats, proposals to track down the missing money have already met resistance from small-business lobbying groups.
 In December, before Democrats had formally taken control of Congress, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business started the Coalition for Fairness in Tax Compliance. Its mission is to fend off proposals about the tax gap that might overly burden small-business owners.
 ''Honest small-business taxpayers are especially at risk of being subjected to needless and unwarranted regulatory burdens in an attempt to capture the few 'bad actors,' '' said John S. Satagaj, the Small Business Legislative Council president, at a Senate Budget Committee hearing in January.
 But the tax gap is about far more than a few bad actors. Rather, the data suggest that most of those who can cheat, do cheat. And that means millions of people. In its analysis of audited 2001 returns, the I.R.S. estimated that the government lost $109 billion from individual taxpayers who underreported business income.
 Little of this money had been hidden in exotic tax-shelter schemes, and none of it stemmed from corporate machinations. This was income from sole proprietors -- mom-and-pop businesses -- and family farmers. Indeed, the overarching theme of the I.R.S. research is that the most pervasive underreporting occurs among people whose revenues are hardest to verify.
 THE I.R.S. estimates income reporting is more than 99 percent accurate for people whose employers withhold taxes and report their earnings to the government. 
 The accuracy rate is almost as high -- 96 percent -- for people whose taxes are not withheld but whose income is reported to the I.R.S. by third parties, like businesses that file Form 1099s for payments to other companies. 
 Compliance is similarly high for income from bank interest and dividends, which is reported to the I.R.S. by banks and investment firms. 
 By contrast, the compliance rate plunges to just 43 percent for people whose income is not reported by either an employer or a third party.
 In practice, that means cheating is most pervasive among self-employed people who earn money from retail customers. Unlike businesses, retail customers do not inform the I.R.S. about payments to people they hire -- electricians, plumbers, lawn-mowing services -- or payments to stores and restaurants. 
 That means the government has no independent information on such revenue for family-owned businesses. A full audit can often uncover that income, but the I.R.S. conducts face-to-face audits on only one in 435 returns.
 Family farmers appear to be even bigger cheats: an estimated 72 percent underreported some of their income, according to the I.R.S.
 The Treasury Department has proposed a move to get such information. Under a Treasury proposal last year, credit card companies would have to send the government information about the total volume of credit card payments to individual businesses. If the payments to a restaurant or auto repair shop were higher than what the company reported as revenue, the discrepancy would be a red flag for an audit.
 Small-business groups have begun to fight that idea, arguing that lawmakers simply do not know enough about the problem and that further reporting requirements might cause unneeded turmoil for businesses without raising much money. 
 Some outside critics of the Bush administration contend that the focus on mom-and-pop businesses misses the point. 
 Robert S. McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice and a longtime analyst of tax policy, noted that the I.R.S.'s definition of the tax gap is limited to money that people undisputedly owe under existing rules.
 That leaves out corporations that save billions of dollars through dubious but legal tax breaks, like the indefinite deferral of taxes on foreign profits kept outside the United States, or the use of offshore tax havens by corporations and very wealthy individuals.
 ''If you want to put I.R.S. resources to the best use, you should go after the big guys,'' Mr. McIntyre said. ''You have estimates of $11 trillion in offshore accounts around the world. If half of that is from the United States, that could be $50 billion in evaded taxes.''
 Even by the I.R.S.'s narrow definition of the tax gap, President Bush's budget proposal for 2008 (sent to Congress on Monday) envisioned recovering only $29 billion over 10 years. That would be less than 1 percent of the estimated missing money, a goal that Democrats quickly said was inadequate.
 ''We're not asking for the moon here,'' said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. ''We're asking for more than one cent on the dollar.''
 But even a major crackdown on cheating and abusive tax shelters could be overshadowed by the cost of overhauling the alternative minimum tax -- a cost that Mr. Bush did not include in his budget proposal. 
 Originally created in the 1960s as a parallel tax aimed at millionaires, the A.M.T. is set to ensnare tens of millions of moderate-income families because it is not adjusted for inflation and because it has a perverse interaction with Mr. Bush's tax cuts. 
 As the tax cuts reduced obligations under the normal income tax calculation, more people faced a higher tax bill as calculated under the alternative minimum tax. About four million people already pay the A.M.T., but the number would jump to more than 20 million next year if the law remained unchanged. 
 Preventing that increase is expected to cost $40 billion in 2007 and more in every subsequent year. A full repeal of the A.M.T., without touching Mr. Bush's tax cuts, would cost $1.5 trillion over the next decade, according to estimates by the Tax Policy Center, a research group in Washington affiliated with the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution.
 DEMOCRATIC leaders are especially eager to tame the A.M.T., because it has a disproportionately large impact on the high-income, high-tax, Democratic-leaning states of the East and West Coasts. One reason is that under the A.M.T., people cannot take deductions for state and property taxes. Those taxes are steep in many coastal states, where high real estate prices drive up property taxes.
 Representative Rangel has made this issue one of his top priorities. 
 But under the ''pay-go'' rules, any reduction of the A.M.T. has to be offset with spending cuts or tax increases elsewhere. Mr. Rangel has publicly speculated about paying the bill out of proceeds from the tax gap, but even that might not be enough: by 2017, according to the Tax Policy Center, a repeal of the alternative minimum tax would cost $248 billion.
 A more likely strategy is that Democrats will pay for reducing the A.M.T. by raising other tax rates. Simply eliminating the tax deduction for state and local taxes, for example, would make up much of the loss. But that, like the A.M.T., would hit people in many Democratic-leaning ''blue'' states.
 As with a Rubik's cube, the number of possible permutations is almost infinite. But the underlying math is quite limited.
 According to the Tax Policy Center, paying for a full repeal of the alternative minimum tax would cost the equivalent of a 6 percent tax increase for people in every tax bracket. Another option would be to put the burden entirely on people in the top three tax brackets, those with taxable incomes today above $123,700; that shift would be equal to raising their normal income tax rates by 15 percent. For a married couple with taxable income of $150,000, the tax rate would jump to 32.3 percent from 28 percent. For families in the top bracket, with incomes above $336,550, the rate would jump to 40.4 percent from 35 percent. 
 In the end, with or without a crackdown on tax cheats, the cost is likely to fall somewhere between those two options.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)(pg. 11)Chart: ''The A.M.T. Conundrum''If no adjustment is made to the alternative minimum tax, which was created to ensure that the wealthy would pay enough taxes, millions of less affluent people will have substantial A.M.T. bills in the 2007 tax year.INCOME LEVEL: Less than $75,000TAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: <0.12007*: 2.3A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: $ 0.12007*: $ 1.5PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 0.4%2007*: 2.2%INCOME LEVEL: $75,000 to $100,000TAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: 0.12007*: 4.7A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: 0.12007*: 4.6PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 0.62007*: 6.5INCOME LEVEL: $100,000 to $200,000TAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: 0.82007*: 11.8A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: 1.82007*: 23.7PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 7.62007*: 34.0INCOME LEVEL: $200,000 to $500,000TAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: 2.12007*: 4.0A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: 10.62007*: 27.4PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 44.52007*: 39.3INCOME LEVEL: $500,000 to $1 millionTAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: 0.42007*: 0.4A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: 4.62007*: 5.4PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 19.32007*: 7.7INCOME LEVEL: More than $1 millionTAXPAYERS PAYING A.M.T. IN MILLIONS2006: 0.12007*: 0.1A.M.T. TAXES IN BILLIONS2006: 6.52007*: 7.1PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A.M.T. TAXES2006: 27.42007*: 10.1*If no adjustments are made to current law.All figures are for calendar years(Source by Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX AUDITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); FAMILY (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Taxation; Tax Evasion; Law and Legislation; Alternative Minimum Tax

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



255 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE NATIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Mr. Right

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
HAVING lost Congress and faith, at times, in President Bush, social conservatives are now holding out for a hero in the 2008 Republican presidential campaign.
 But who? And what kind of hero?
Is it the hero of 9/11, Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose support of abortion rights is anything but heroic to social conservatives? Is it the hero against gay marriage in Massachusetts, Mitt Romney, who nevertheless once championed gay rights? Or is it a hero of wartime, John McCain, who has also betrayed them on issues like federal judicial appointments?
 Eleven months before the first presidential caucuses, social conservatives are in no mood to compromise; many don't want to settle for Senator McCain, nor can they abide Mr. Giuliani. They want a true believer, reliably opposed to abortion rights, gay rights and gun control, tough on immigration and a supporter of conservative judicial appointments.
 But are any second-tier contenders strong enough to carry the mantle of their idol, Ronald Reagan -- and also, strong enough to win? 
 Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas strongly opposes abortion rights and gay marriage; former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas is a Southern Baptist minister who talks about religion and civic life; and Representative Duncan Hunter appears to have solid conservative credentials. Yet all three are largely unknown beyond their states and Capitol Hill. The same goes for Representative Tom Tancredo of Colorado, who appears to be a one-issue candidate, focused on fighting illegal immigration.
 Gone is the sense that social conservatives are a unified bloc. The movement that rose with the candidacy of Ronald Reagan in the 1970s is now fractured over both its messengers and its message. The issues that social conservatives care about most are often overshadowed by Iraq and terrorism, energy and taxes. And if their vote splinters in 2008, their political potency could be sapped.
 If these voters split into factions for different Republican candidates, either Mr. Giuliani or Mr. McCain could slip through the middle (while wriggling around the so-called values issues), uniting enough fiscal conservatives and national security conservatives -- and moderate and liberal Republicans -- to win the party's nomination next year. And Mr. Giuliani, for one, is starting to shade his support for abortion rights in hopes of assuaging opponents.
 ''A fractured movement is Rudy Giuliani's dream,'' said Paul M. Weyrich, chairman of the Free Congress Foundation, a conservative research group. ''What I hear constantly is, 'We've got to beat Hillary; we can't allow her to be president.'
 ''What I'm hearing is, 'We hate him, we don't agree with his positions, we feel that his personal life is a travesty -- but on the other hand, he probably could beat Hillary.' I hear this over and over again. I keep telling people, don't fall for that.''
 Yet Mr. Weyrich, a savvy political strategist, knows that if social conservatives are torn on Election Day, many may stay home, and the consequence might be another Clinton presidency. So a moment of political reckoning for social conservatives seems inevitable. Will they give ground on their issues in order to elect a Republican?
 ''I don't see social conservatives making compromises to win in 2008,'' said the Rev. Donald Wildmon, founder of the American Family Association, a conservative Christian broadcaster and advocacy group. ''Social conservatives don't blindly follow the Pied Piper anymore. We've been disappointed and taken for granted by Republicans at times. I don't think there's any appetite for compromising core values.''
 Nor should there be, according to Governor Huckabee. In recent interviews, he has artfully tied his religious devotion to broader social concerns. For instance, on NPR last week, he said that reclaiming a nation for Christ was not a matter of proselytizing.
 ''It means that we would reflect what he reflected, and that is compassion and love,'' Mr. Huckabee said.
 Yet he was also critical of some opponents of abortion rights, suggesting that they focus too much on embryos. ''I want to be concerned about making sure every child has music and art education,'' he said. ''There are a lot of things that, to me, are a part of my being pro-life.''
 Senator Brownback, meanwhile, has told some allies that he will not allow Iraq or economic issues to distract him from talking about social issues. Indeed, in a speech last month, he listed reviving faith among Americans and opposing same-sex marriage as examples of his priorities.
 Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, has tried to explain his conversion on abortion rights, from support to opposition, with a made-for-television story: As he listened to a Harvard researcher discussing stem-cell science, and the destruction of embryos, he saw the antiabortion cause in a new light.
 At some recent conferences for social conservatives, Mr. Romney has used a line that some conservatives find credible: ''On abortion I was not always a Ronald Reagan conservative. Neither was Ronald Reagan.''
 This sort of language also resonates with other conservative wings of the party, like some members of the antitax faction who do not want to get bogged down over whether Mr. Romney is now sufficiently sincere in his opposition to abortion.
 ''Romney has a one-way, one-time migration on abortion to explain,'' said Grover Norquist, the head of Americans for Tax Reform. ''Senator McCain, meanwhile, was a Reaganite on taxes and then drifted for six years and now wants to come back. Same on guns. Same on judges. He was a two-way migration on several issues, and a lot of conservatives will have a hard time with that.''
 Yet on a fundamental matter like the life of a fetus, some social conservatives say, the turnabout by Mr. Romney is worthy of skepticism.
 ''I know people can change, but sometimes when people want to be president, they speak of a change that has not occurred,'' Mr. Wildmon said. ''I like to go with a person whose words match their actions.''
 Mr. McCain's campaign is counting on a sharp split among social conservatives in the 2008 primary. Mr. Brownback and Mr. Huckabee, his strategists believe, lack the money and organizational strength to mount serious bids that would galvanize social conservatives. Meanwhile, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani are portraying themselves as conservatives on taxes and national security.
 ''If someone can make a credible case to the social conservatives and have a position on Iraq that appeals to the broad majority of Republicans, you may see an election where the social issues, the moral values issues, are not as central as they were in the past,'' said Matthew Dallek, the author of ''The Right Moment: Ronald Reagan's First Victory and the Decisive Turning Point in American Politics.''
 Mr. Dallek notes that Mr. Reagan, as governor of California in the 1960s, took steps to support abortion rights and raise taxes. Yet he became a unifying figure for social conservatives because of his staunch anti-Communist credentials, and because he came to embrace their positions opposing abortion rights as well as tax cuts.
 ''Social conservatives may come to see one of the leading candidates as solid enough on their values issues, while keeping the national focus on the major issue of the day -- defeating Communism for Reagan, and fixing Iraq and winning the war on terror for a McCain or a Romney,'' Mr. Dallek said.
 Yet this outcome seems an unlikely prospect to some political analysts.
 In a survey of voters in the 2006 elections, the Pew Forum found that so-called values issues like opposition to same-sex marriage and abortion rights mattered the most to white evangelical Protestant voters. Forty-five percent of them ranked values issues highest; 17 percent chose the war in Iraq; and 12 percent cited illegal immigration.
 ''White evangelical Protestants are not only still a real component of the Republican Party, but they are also concentrated in key primary states like South Carolina, Florida and Virginia,'' said John Green, a senior fellow in religion and American politics at the Pew Forum. ''They are not going away, and it's too soon to say how fractured they will be.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Matt Collins)Chart: ''What Matters to Voters''A comparison of white evangelical Protestant voters' views and those of all voters, according to 2006 surveys.Percentage who said that each of the following issues was the one that mattered most:WAR IN IRAQALL VOTERS: 29%WHITE EVANGELICAL PROTESTANTS: 17%THE ECONOMYALL VOTERS: 21WHITE EVANGELICAL PROTESTANTS: 10'VALUES ISSUES' LIKE GAY MARRIAGE, ABORTIONALL VOTERS: 19WHITE EVANGELICAL PROTESTANTS: 45ILLEGAL IMMIGRATIONALL VOTERS: 6WHITE EVANGELICAL PROTESTANTS: 12(Source by Pew Research Center)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); RELIGION (94%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (93%); CONSERVATISM (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Evangelical Movement; Primaries and Caucuses; Christians and Christianity; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN J DUNCAN JR (78%); DUNCAN HUNTER (58%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (58%) Patrick Healy; Rudolph W Giuliani; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



256 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Basics; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Budget Forecasts: Sun or Clouds

BYLINE: By JAMES BRONZAN

 BODY:
President Bush's $2.9 trillion budget, released Monday, opens the seasonal Washington wrangling over how to spend money, and there will surely be no lack of bickering between Congress and the White House. 
 They cannot even agree on a starting point. Each side has produced a projection, or baseline, that predicts the government's surplus or deficit based on current law -- before any new proposals are enacted.
There is disagreement over how well the economy will perform, and even what current policies should be included in the analysis.
 Mr. Bush's projection allows him to declare that his proposals will ultimately balance the budget. Not surprisingly, Congress thinks differently. JAMES BRONZANThe Bush Forecast: Surpluses Even With Tax Cuts
 The Bush administration, in a departure from standard practices, assumes that certain policies now set to expire, like its major tax cuts, will be extended.
 Even with the tax cuts remaining in place, the projection shows a surplus starting in 2010, without any new Bush proposals included.
 The administration also leaves out most financing for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Along with an optimistic forecast of growing tax revenues, this makes the budget picture look quite positive.
 Congressional Forecast I: Without Tax Cuts, Surpluses
 The Congressional Budget Office's basic projection assumes that all current policies remain in effect and that all laws scheduled to expire do so.
 The major Bush administration tax cutsare due to expire Dec. 31, 2010, part way into the 2011 fiscal year. The next year, the C.B.O.'s estimate shows a large surplus.
 The C.B.O.'s projections include financing for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, most of which the administration leaves out.Congressional Forecast II: With Tax Cuts, Deficits Continue
 The C.B.O. considered several alternate possibilities -- like extending the major Bush tax cuts while keeping other policies in place. This case study is similar to the Bush projection (top).
 But by including financing for the Iraq war and using slightly less optimistic projections of tax revenue, the C.B.O. paints a much less rosy picture of the future budget. In this outcome, the surplus in the 2012 fiscal year is replaced by a $100 billion deficit.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the deficit or surplus in billions of dollars from 2006-2012. (2007+ are estimates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); IRAQ WAR (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CASE STUDIES (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) James Bronzan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2007



257 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Gates Calls for Security Partnership With Russia

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: MUNICH, Germany 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert Gates, in his first speech as Pentagon chief, made an urgent call Sunday for NATO allies to live up to their promises to supply military and economic aid for Afghanistan, saying that failing to do so would be shameful. 
 And in a carefully worded rebuke, he used both humor and some pointed jabs to blunt Russia's sharp attack against U.S. foreign policy a day earlier.
In remarks before a prestigious security forum, Gates dismissed as dated Cold War rhetoric Russian President Vladimir Putin's charge Saturday that the United States is seeding a new arms race.
 A day after Putin blamed U.S. policy for inciting other countries to seek nuclear weapons to defend themselves, Gates responded: "As an old Cold Warrior, one of yesterday's speeches almost filled me with nostalgia for a less complex time. Almost."
 Then, as the audience chuckled, he added, however, that he has accepted Putin's invitation to visit Russia.
 "We all face many common problems and challenges that must be addressed in partnership with other countries, including Russia," said Gates. "One Cold War was quite enough."
 The bulk of his speech was devoted to the future of the NATO alliance, and the need to work together to defend the trans-Atlantic community against any security threats.
 He struck a familiar theme -- one he pressed during a NATO defense ministers meeting this week, when he urged the allies to follow through on their promises to help secure and rebuild Afghanistan.
 "It is vitally important that the success Afghanistan has achieved not be allowed to slip away through neglect or lack of political will or resolve," Gates said. Failure to muster a strong military effort combined with economic development and a counternarcotics plan "would be a mark of shame," he said.
 Gates also sketched out the challenges ahead, from Iran's nuclear ambitions and the situation in the Middle East to China's recent anti-satellite tests and Russia's arms sales.
 Just eight weeks on the job, Gates used the conference and a NATO gathering earlier in the week to introduce himself to the international community and meet privately with a number of defense ministers.
 Delivered amid growing tensions between the U.S. and Russia and to an audience including many Iraq and Afghanistan war skeptics, the speech was the first public test of Gates' diplomatic skills. It came at a venue that at times had been dominated by his more bombastic predecessor, Donald H. Rumsfeld.
 So as he neared the end of his remarks, Gates made a deliberate move to separate himself from Rumsfeld and any lingering discord.
 In the run-up to the Iraq war, Rumsfeld sharply criticized nations opposed to the conflict -- specifically France and Germany -- referring to them as "Old Europe."
 Without mentioning Rumsfeld's name, Gates said some people have tried to divide the allies into categories -- such as east and west, north versus south.
 "I'm even told that some have even spoken in terms of 'old' Europe versus 'new,"' Gates said. "All of these characterizations belong in the past."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ARMS RACE (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (85%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



258 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Taming the Deficit, Together

BYLINE: By Bill Frenzel, Charles Stenholm, William Hoagland and Isabel Sawhill. 
Bill Frenzel is a former Republican representative from Minnesota. Charles Stenholm is a former Democratic representative from Texas. William Hoagland is a former Republican staff member in the Senate. Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, was an associate director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration.

 BODY:
WITH the new Democratic majority in Congress, President Bush finally talking about fiscal responsibility and the 2008 primary season about to begin, finding common ground between Democrats and Republicans on budget issues could not be more important. We are borrowing large sums from foreigners, leaving a legacy of debt, paying more than $1,600 per family in taxes just to cover the interest on the debt, and setting aside nothing to deal with future contingencies or investments. 
 True, last year's deficit of $248 billion, at 1.9 percent of gross domestic product, was not large by historical standards, and next year's may be even smaller. But a failure to deal with deficits and overall debt sends the message that we have no plan for the sea of red ink that will engulf the nation when the baby boomers begin to retire next year. 
With this in mind, the four of us propose a balanced package of spending cuts and revenue increases that could eliminate the deficit in five years and set the nation on a sustainable course for the long term. None of us agrees with every part of this proposal, but we think as a whole it works as a model for compromise. More important, it demonstrates how people of good will from both parties can come together to produce a package that not only curtails deficits but also greatly improves the long-term fiscal outlook. 
 On spending, we would put a hard cap on all appropriations that freezes spending at fiscal 2008 levels. This would allow one federal program's financing to increase only if another program's budget were cut. We also propose accelerating the increase in the retirement age to 67 from 66, improving the way Social Security benefits are indexed for inflation and making other modest adjustments in the major entitlement programs. 
 These cuts to spending, however, would save only about half of the money needed to balance the budget in 2013. Further spending reductions are unlikely to garner much Congressional support and could even compromise national security. To make up the balance we propose to increase revenues -- not by raising income tax rates but by dealing with some of the flaws in the current tax system. 
 The major reform would be to broaden and simplify the tax base by turning almost all itemized deductions into 15 percent credits against taxes. We would also place a cap on how much of employer-paid health insurance premiums could be excluded from taxes. 
 To increase energy security and reduce global warming, we would impose a carbon fee or tax on energy producers of $15 per metric ton of carbon emissions, phased in over a three-year interval, which could raise about $35 billion a year. This fee could be collected by auctioning off permits to private companies under a cap-and-trade system, or levied as a direct tax on the businesses (which in turn, of course, would pass costs along to consumers). 
 We must also collect more of the taxes already owed. The Internal Revenue Service recently did an audit analysis of the tax year 2001, and found a gap between what was owed and what was remitted of at least $290 billion. 
 Finally, we suggest reforming the alternative minimum tax, probably through adjusting the way it is pegged to inflation; as it is, too many middle- and upper-middle-class families will find their taxes rising in the next few years because of the tax. The resulting shortfall in revenues would be made up for by continuing to tax the very small number of estates worth more than $7 million per couple. 
 In all, our plan would give the nation a fiscal-responsibility dividend of $57 billion per year over five years, the interest saved on the debt. Some of this money would be put toward deficit reduction, but the remainder could be invested in high-priority programs like early childhood education, combating terrorism around the globe and state-based children's health insurance programs. 
 Of course, reining in the deficit is only part of the challenge. To chip away at the national debt and sustain a healthy fiscal outlook into the deep future, fundamental reform of Social Security and Medicare will be needed, and everything will have to be on the table. On Social Security, for example, lifting or removing the cap on payroll taxes, indexing benefits for our increased longevity, and slowing the growth of payments to wealthier retirees would go a long way toward improving its solvency.
 Festering deficits, a poorly designed tax system, an addiction to oil and uncontrolled entitlement spending are all symptoms of what is wrong with our current politics. Those jockeying for position in the 2008 presidential race should emphasize that deficits matter, that bipartisan solutions are needed and that it is possible to make fiscal progress while improving the tax system, health care and energy security. More specifically, they should promise to eliminate the deficit within five years and to set the budget on a sustainable trajectory for the longer term. Our package shows that it can be done.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TAX REFORM (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (67%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (64%); EMISSIONS (63%); INCOME TAX (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%) Taxation

PERSON: Bill Frenzel; Charles W Stenholm; William Hoagland; Isabel Sawhill

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



259 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Across the Great Divide: Investigating Links Between Personality and Politics

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Folk music and a collection of feminist poetry may well be dead giveaways that there is a liberal in the house. But what about an ironing board or postage stamps or a calendar?
 What seem to be ordinary, everyday objects to some people can carry a storehouse of information about the owner's ideology, says a new wave of social scientists who are studying the subtle links between personality and politics.
Research into why someone leans left or right -- a subject that stirred enormous interest in the aftermath of World War II before waning in the 1960s -- has been revived in recent years, partly because of a shift in federal funds for politics and terrorism research, new technology like brain imaging and a sharper partisan divide in the nation's political culture. 
 ''I believe that recent developments in psychological research and the world of politics -- including responses to 9/11, the Bush presidency, the Iraq War, polarizing Supreme Court nominations, Hurricane Katrina, and ongoing controversies over scientific and environmental policies -- provide ample grounds for revisiting'' the psychological basis of Americans' opinions, party and voting patterns, John T. Jost, a psychologist at New York University, wrote in a recent issue of American Psychologist. 
 The newest work in the field, found in a growing number of papers, symposiums and college courses, touches on factors from genetics to home decor. Some people have greeted the results with fascination. Books by George Lakoff, a linguist and cognitive scientist at the University of California, Berkeley, who studies the psychological power of metaphors and the framing of issues, became required reading among Democrats after their defeat in the 2004 elections. Others have been decidedly less thrilled with studies they say portray conservatives as pinched and neurotic. 
 For anyone who assumes political choices rest on a rational analysis of issues and self-interest, the notion that preference for a candidate springs from the same source as the choice of a color scheme can be disturbing. But social psychologists assume that all beliefs, including political ones, partly arise from an individual's deep psychological fears and needs: for stability, order and belonging, or for rebellion and novelty. 
 These needs and worries vary in degree, develop in childhood and probably have a temperamental and a genetic component, said Arie Kruglanski of the University of Maryland. A study of twins, for instance, has shown that a conservative or progressive orientation can be inherited, while a decades-long study has found that personality traits associated with liberalism or conservatism later in life show up in preschoolers. 
 No one is arguing that an embrace of universal national health care or tax cuts arises because of a chromosome or the unconscious residue from a schoolyard spat. What Mr. Jost and Mr. Kruglanski say is that years of research show that liberals and conservatives consistently match one of two personality types. Those who enjoy bending rules and embracing new experiences tend to turn left; those who value tradition and are more cautious about change tend to end up on the right. 
 What's more, these traits are reflected in musical taste, hobbies and decor. Dana R. Carney, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University, who worked with Mr. Jost and Samuel D. Gosling of the University of Texas at Austin among others, found that the offices and bedrooms of conservatives tended to be neat and contain cleaning supplies, calendars, postage stamps and sports-related posters; conservatives also tended to favor country music and documentaries. Bold-colored, cluttered rooms with art supplies, lots of books, jazz CDs and travel documents tended to belong to liberals (providing sloppy Democrats with an excuse to refuse clean up on principle). 
 Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at the University of Virginia, said he found this work intriguing but was more inclined to see a person's moral framework as a source of difference between liberals and conservatives. Most liberals, he said, think about morality in terms of two categories: how someone's welfare is affected, and whether it is fair. Conservatives, by contrast, broaden that definition to include loyalty, respect for authority, and purity or sanctity. Conservatives have a richer, more elaborate moral horizon than liberals, Mr. Haidt said, because there is a ''whole dimension to human experience best described as divinity or sacredness that conservatives are more attuned to.'' 
 So how does he explain the red-blue divide? ''Areas with less mobility and less diversity generally have the more traditional,'' broadened definition of morality, ''and therefore were more likely to vote for George W. Bush -- and to tell pollsters that their reason was 'moral values,' '' he and his co-writer, Jesse Graham, say in a paper to be published this year by The Journal Social Justice Research. 
 Mr. Jost did his own research on the red-blue divide. Using the Internet he and his collaborators gave personality tests to hundreds of thousands of Americans. He found states with people who scored high on ''openness'' were significantly more likely to have voted for the Democratic candidate in the past three elections, even after adjustments were made for income, ethnicity and population density. States that scored high on ''conscientiousness'' went Republican in the past three elections. 
 Some of these psychological studies have been dogged by charges of bias however. In 2003 a mammoth survey of more than 50 years of research on the psychology of conservatism that Mr. Jost and Mr. Kruglanski undertook with the help of Jack Glaser and Frank Sulloway at Berkeley concluded that conservatives tend to be ''rigid,'' ''close-minded'' and ''fearful,'' less tolerant of minorities and more tolerant of inequality. At the time the conservative columnist George F. Will ridiculed the results: ''The professors have ideas; the rest of us have emanations of our psychological needs and neuroses.'' 
 The authors insist they are not making value judgments; whether a particular trait is positive or negative depends on circumstance. ''Fear of death has the highest correlation with being conservative,'' Mr. Sulloway said. But he continued: ''What's wrong with fearing death? If you don't fear death, evolution eliminates you from the population.'' 
 Accusations of bias against conservatives go way back, to Theodor Adorno and other scholars who, after World War II, came up with the ''authoritarian personality'' to explain the link between the far right and fascist regimes. 
 As for the present research, John Zaller, a political scientist at Berkeley, said: ''I am personally embarrassed by some of the leading work by psychologists on personality and conservatism. I take the data to be valid, but I feel the manner of describing it too often sets up conservatives to look bad.''
 Mr. Haidt, who agrees liberals and conservatives have distinct dispositions, still thinks bias is a problem: ''Our own biases as researchers -- because we are almost all liberal -- make it difficult for us to understand the psychology of conservatives.'' 
 A slanted interpretation isn't the only cause of skepticism. Definitions of liberal and conservative shift, critics say. How would you define a liberal or conservative in the former Soviet Union? And what about people who are conservative on economic policy but liberal on social issues? 
 What is important, said Larry Bartels, a political scientist at Princeton University, is howpsychological tendencies are translated into views about specific political issues: ''In 2000, George W. Bush ridiculed nation-building; now he seems pretty committed,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''Which of those positions (if either) represents rigidity, resistance to change, or discipline? On the other hand, how many flexible, curious, open-to-experience liberals do you know who want to experiment with restructuring the Social Security system?'' 
 Personality may have something to do with a particular political outlook, he said, but so do a lot of other things.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 15, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Monday about studies on the links between personality and a person's political views misidentified the university where John Zaller, who commented on current research, is a political scientist. It is the University of California, Los Angeles -- not the University of California, Berkeley.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Graham Roumieu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (88%); POETRY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); BRAIN (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); WORLD WAR II (70%); TERRORISM (70%); INTERIOR DECORATING (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); TAX LAW (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%) United States Politics and Government; Psychology and Psychologists

PERSON: Patricia Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



260 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Serious Music And Seriously Danceable Grooves

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
Zankel Hall could have used a dance floor on Friday night when Shiyani Ngcobo, a South African songwriter, made his New York City debut in a concert presented by the World Music Institute and Carnegie Hall. 
 Mr. Ngcobo plays maskanda, a style with deep Zulu roots. It was created in the early 20th century by Zulu workers migrating between rural homes and jobs in cities. With Mr. Ngcobo on acoustic guitar, the band uses portable, mostly acoustic instruments: concertina, hand percussion and electric bass. The songs are about home, roots, family memories and moral questions. Written for listeners coping with transitions between country and city, heritage and urban possibilities, they're serious. But maskanda, which has been little heard outside South Africa, is dance music with nimble, unstoppable grooves.
Like other Zulu music Mr. Ngcobo's songs usually roll through just two or three major chords, and they work up a call-and-response between his gritty voice and the bright group harmonies that bridge Zulu tradition and gospel singing. Maskanda also has intricacies all its own. 
 Mr. Ngcobo might well have the busiest thumb in music. He propels his songs with guitar-picking patterns that juggle three-against-two rhythms in simultaneous bass lines, riffs and runs. While he sets out those patterns with unswerving precision, his voice revels in freedom and variety. It swoops up into melody phrases, sustains notes with a wide and exultant quaver, darts through some lines, floats up to a kindly falsetto, ululates and chirps like birdcalls, or breaks into rapid-fire declamation: an old Zulu tradition of praise poetry, called izibongo, that's one more African antecedent of rap. 
 Mr. Ngcobo could carry every part himself, as he proved in a song he performed solo, with guitar lines providing the responses. With the group, each part of the songs was clarified. Zwelakhe Mnguni's concertina underlined the melodies or skipped around them, tootling like a harmonica; Njabulo Shabalala's hand drum picked up and multiplied the syncopations. Lungile Gumbi, who sang high, clear backup vocals, also danced barefoot through the songs, hinting at their stories as her face changed from cheerful to somber and back.
 Although Mr. Ngcobo has performed at some world-music festivals in Europe, and has an album available in the United States, ''Introducing Shiyani Ngcobo'' (Introducing/World Music Network), he hasn't predigested his music for non-Zulu audiences. The songs arrived without explanations, but also without abridgement or crossover attempts, offering a glimpse of what maskanda sounds like at home, undiluted. 
 But in South Africa, Ms. Gumbi gently observed as she urged listeners to clap along, ''the audience does not sit and relax.'' Obviously they would be dancing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shiyani Ngcobo made his New York City debut on Friday night. (Photo by Julieta Cervantes for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); DANCE (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (71%); POETRY (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (56%) Music; Reviews

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Jon Pareles; Shiyani Ngcobo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



261 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: The No-Name Brand Behind the Latest Flat-Panel Price War

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
If his Olevia line of televisions was ever going to get any attention from consumers, Vincent F. Sollitto Jr. would have to do something big, splashy and, in economic terms, just plain crazy. 
 On the day after Thanksgiving, Mr. Sollitto, the chairman and chief executive of Syntax-Brillian, had 32-inch Olevia liquid-crystal display TV sets selling at Circuit City for $475, almost half its regular price.
Syntax almost certainly lost money on the TVs. The flat screen that makes up about half the cost of an L.C.D. TV is about $350 on its own. But Mr. Sollitto could not have been more pleased. The Olevias outsold Sony and other brands while they lasted. That forced the premium brands to lower prices throughout the holiday season and take notice of the upstart from Tempe, Ariz. 
 ''I think we are being annoying to those guys at the moment,'' he said. ''We are going to be on that radar screen soon if we aren't there already.'' 
 In the battle for market share in big-screen TVs, there is a lot of pain to go around as prices drop sharply. Circuit City, for instance, lured a lot of customers into its stores with the promotion. But last Thursday it said it would have to close about 70 stores because of slim profit margins on televisions and other products. Profits at almost all of the major TV makers are down. 
 The only ones not getting hurt are consumers, who enjoyed sliding prices on HDTVs in 2006. They are likely to see a rerun of the same action in 2007 as prices are expected to fall further by 40 percent or more. For that they can thank the low-price brands like Syntax's Olevia. 
 ''It does impact the business,'' said Bruce Tripido, senior director of marketing for Sharp's entertainment products. ''They've accelerated the price compression and the reduction in profitability for everyone across the board.''
 Of course, Olevia does not have the luxury of the name recognition enjoyed by Sharp and others. ''A year ago we were nobody,'' Mr. Sollitto said. ''We were just trying to get people to hear our story.'' 
 That is starting to change. Viewers of ESPN's high-definition cable channels and its other media outlets are more familiar with the brand after a spate of advertising. Consumer Reports magazine recently rated an Olevia a best buy, along with a Sony.
 Mr. Sollitto, a 21-year veteran of I.B.M. who later worked at a succession of other high-tech companies, predicted that Olevia would become a top-tier brand.
 Jonathan Dorsheimer, vice president of equity research at Canaccord Adams, said this was ''an achievable goal'' for the company. He said Syntax had already garnered about 4 percent of the United States market, even though until late last year its sales were confined to regional electronics stores and online vendors, which make up only about 40 percent of the total market. 
 The company could increase its share to 7.5 percent of the United States market as it moves into the big stores, said John Vinh, a senior research analyst at C. E. Unterberg Towbin. 
 This year, Olevia TVs are in Circuit City, Office Depot and Kmart stores and will soon be in Target's revamped electronics departments. Best Buy is experimenting with selling the brand online. The company expects to sell slightly more than a million TVs in the fiscal year. 
 There are about 80 brands in the crowded American market for L.C.D. televisions, most of them value-priced. Olevia's competitors include Vizio, which has had success selling through Wal-Mart and Costco, and a number of brands recycled from yesteryear, when the United States still made televisions: Zenith, Emerson, Sylvania, Westinghouse and Magnavox 
 With the exception of Zenith, which has become the value brand of the Korean company LG, these brands are used by ''virtual companies'' that, like Syntax, contract with assemblers to build the TVs.
 Syntax, though, has attracted the interest of investors because it is the only publicly traded TV-focused company in the United States. Its shares shot up from $2.02 in May to a 52-week-high of $11.70 in early January. 
 It has fallen since then and dropped 15 percent on Thursday after Mr. Sollitto issued a more conservative forecast for revenue growth -- a tripling of revenue in its 2007 fiscal year ending June 30. 
 Mr. Vinh said investors' expectations had run ahead of reality, and he brushed off the drop in price. He is forecasting that the shares, which closed at $8.11 on Friday, will go to $14 a share, and the handful of other analysts following the company remain optimistic. ''The company is in hypergrowth mode,'' Mr. Vinh said. ''That's a good problem to have.'' 
 Mr. Sollitto is essentially taking a ride on the falling prices of flat panels, the main component in the TVs, and the drop has steepened because of a glut. It owns no factories, but buys the panels and has contracts with four manufacturers to assemble the televisions. This keeps costs down but is risky because the company does not control the supply of parts.
 Right now that does not matter so much. While there is high demand for L.C.D. TVs and only eight suppliers of the flat panels that are the main component of L.C.D.'s, many of the independent factories in Taiwan are not running at full capacity. To reach greater efficiency and better economies of scale, they offer a lower price to anyone who commits to buying a lot of panels. 
 For example, the price of a 37-inch panel has fallen to $476, from $690 a year ago. Sweta Dash, an analyst who tracks panel prices for the market information company iSuppli, expects them to drop to $375 by June, presaging even bigger discounting at the retail level for those TVs in the next few months. 
 The three biggest names in the business, Sony, Sharp and Samsung, which hold about a third of the market, declined to comment on Olevia. Jonas Tanenbaum, Samsung's vice president of visual display marketing, noted that ''there has always been a disruptive force in the market.'' Indeed, 15 years ago Samsung was the scrappy company building credibility. 
 ''The off-brands are residing in a price band where we are simply not going to reside,'' said Mr. Tripido of Sharp. His company has considered selling a value-priced TV, which would not carry the Sharp name. 
 Instead, Sharp's strategy is to produce panels in its advanced plants in larger sizes, like 46, 52 and 65 inches, where the value brands cannot compete. (It also has a 108-inch TV coming.) Then it prices aggressively.
 ''The pricing was incredible right out of the chute'' with the new sets, said Eric Haruki, an analyst with IDC, a market research company. ''The big guys made pricing moves on their own.'' 
 The result is a smaller price gap between the premium names and the value brands, creating a future risk for Syntax. Right now the average price of a 32-inch L.C.D. TV from a lesser-known brand like Olevia is $834, while a premium brand like Sharp sells for $1,217. Riddhi Patel, an analyst at iSuppli who tracks the overall market, predicts that by Christmas the prices will be more like $600 versus $850.
 When the margin is only $150 to $200, Ms. Patel said, a shopper is more apt to shrug off the difference and choose the recognized brand name.
 ''We will be prepared for what's coming, and that's a very aggressive price reduction throughout the year,'' Mr. Sollitto said.
 As consumers develop a sweet spot for even bigger TVs, Olevia is pushing to sell 42-, 47- and 52-inch sets, some of them in the higher-resolution 1080p standard.
 Mr. Sollitto said brand recognition becomes more important as the price difference between a top brand and his brand narrows. ''The advertising makes a difference,'' Mr. Sollitto said. ''People are looking for a brand.'' That explains why Olevia spent $2.4 million on advertising in the last three months, a tenfold increase in its ad budget. 
 Syntax has lined up three factories in China and Taiwan to assemble 1.3 million TVs in 2007. It also has a contract factory in Ontario, Calif., operated by Solar Link Technologies of Taiwan, to more quickly deliver to retailers in the United States. It is now seeking the capacity to produce 1.2 million more TVs. Mr. Sollitto has been racing to arrange financing for all this growth. 
 ''Our biggest concern right now is, let's not bite off more than we can chew,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Assembling TVs in the Olevia production facility in Ontario, Calif. Their low prices are forcing other makers to follow suit. (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
Syntax-Brillian's facility in Ontario, Calif., is run by a contract manufacturer, Solar Link, whose president is Johnny Tsai, above left, with the chief executive of Syntax, Vincent F. Sollitto Jr. (Photo by Syntax-Brillian)
 (Photo by Ric Francis/Associated Press)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (92%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); BRANDING (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ELECTRONICS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); THANKSGIVING (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%) Television; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Finances; Television

COMPANY: SYNTAX-BRILLIAN CORP (58%); ESPN INC (51%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Olevia; Sony Electronics Inc; Samsung Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%)

PERSON: Vincent F Jr Sollitto; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); ARIZONA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



262 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: White Knight Turns Pragmatist, and Newspapers Tremble Again

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Less than a year ago, Gary B. Pruitt, the head of the McClatchy Company, was hailed as the white knight of newspapers. While others saw the industry headed for the dinosaur graveyard, Mr. Pruitt rode in to buy the Knight Ridder papers, or some of them anyway. 
 Although he was the only bidder, he pronounced the industry very much alive. BusinessWeek said Mr. Pruitt was ''widely considered the best in the business.''
Since then, Mr. Pruitt seems to have lost his long-held place as the darling of the industry and of Wall Street. Since McClatchy bought Knight Ridder last March, the company has performed worse than most of its peers. Last week, its stock price hit a 52-week low, $37.82.
 In December, Mr. Pruitt made a move that sent shock waves through the industry, dumping The Minneapolis Star Tribune, the biggest paper in the McClatchy chain. Not just that, but he sold it for $530 million -- less than half of what he paid for it eight years before. 
 The sale sent a clear signal that some of the industry's premier properties were eroding in value. Apart from its own woes, McClatchy's sale of The Star Tribune could not have come at a worse time for the Tribune Company, which has been on the auction block since last fall. 
 In the convoluted bidding thus far, Tribune has received only two firm offers -- a jerry-rigged bid from two Los Angeles billionaires, Eli Broad and Ronald Burkle, and another from the Chandler family, Tribune's largest shareholders. (A third, from the Carlyle Group, is just for Tribune's two-dozen television stations, not its 11 newspapers, which include The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, or its baseball team, the Chicago Cubs.) 
 The downturn at The Minneapolis Star Tribune, where advertising revenue had plunged by 6 percent in November compared with the year earlier, has not been the only danger sign of an industry on the rocks. Ad revenue for many papers fell sharply over the summer, and publishers do not see a recovery for at least the first half of this year. 
 The Boston Globe, owned by The New York Times Company, and The Philadelphia Inquirer, now privately owned, are only the latest to make deep cuts in their newsrooms (including the outsourcing of about 55 support jobs at The Globe to India). 
 Less than two weeks ago, the Times Company, which also owns The Worcester Telegram & Gazette, took a $814 million write-down on its two New England papers, saying they are worth only about 40 percent of the $1.4 billion that the Times Company originally paid for them.
 Against this backdrop, is it any wonder that bids for Tribune have been scarce? Or that no newspaper company has made an offer?
 ''It's instructive that the billionaires floating around in L.A. and Boston who have expressed interest in some of these papers are all unsophisticated about the newspaper business,'' said John Morton, an industry analyst. ''They don't know what's going on.''
 He added that the Minneapolis sale had tarnished Mr. Pruitt's reputation in newsrooms.
 ''If you had this warm and fuzzy feeling about being taken over by McClatchy, I suspect that has dissipated,'' he said. ''As a financial steward, you couldn't get anybody to run your company better than Gary Pruitt, but you can't look at everything from a financial steward point of view. For heaven's sake, newspapers are a public trust. He's acting as if he's running a green bean cannery.'' 
 Mr. Pruitt himself says he remains confident about the future of newspapers, ''both in print and online,'' and defends the sale of The Star Tribune. It provided a big tax benefit for McClatchy, he said, and the company is using the proceeds to help pay off the $2 billion debt it incurred in buying Knight Ridder.
 ''I never thought of us as the white knight,'' Mr. Pruitt said of the Knight Ridder purchase. ''I thought of us in more prosaic terms -- it was an opportunity to make an attractive acquisition on our terms, to strengthen the company long-term.'' 
 Selling the Minneapolis paper, he said, was also a move for the long term.
 ''Sometimes that means you're popular and sometimes that means you're unpopular, but that's not part of the criteria,'' he said. ''This is not high school.''
 Alexia Quadrani, a media analyst at Bear Stearns, said there was some concern among newspaper owners that they were not given a chance to bid for The Star Tribune before it was bought by Avista Capital Partners, a private equity firm.
 ''This property wasn't shopped around,'' she said, suggesting that perhaps newspaper companies might have paid more than Avista Capital did. 
 Mr. Pruitt has not described his sale process, saying only that he ''took soundings'' among media companies and thought he would be able to do a deal more quickly with private equity. ''We weren't trying to get a low price,'' he said. ''That criticism is misplaced.''
 Apart from what happens to The Star Tribune in the hands of Avista Capital, analysts agreed that the sale could help McClatchy financially in the long run.
 ''I recommend a buy on McClatchy,'' said Barry L. Lucas, an investment analyst at Gabelli & Company, in Rye, N.Y. ''You will see revenue growth come back, you will see debt come down rapidly, and ultimately, Gary may be proved right.''
 It is not clear what role the sale of the Minneapolis paper may have played in the minds of bidders or potential bidders for Tribune, which has said it will lay out its strategy for the future by the end of March. Analysts said it was difficult to isolate the Minneapolis price as a factor in the Tribune auction, given the state of the industry. 
 ''People certainly took notice,'' said James M. Walden, a stock analyst with Morningstar. ''And it highlights what the industry is going through in the larger markets.''
 But, he said, there are so many other considerations with Tribune, including that the company said it wanted to sell itself in one piece, not broken up. And analysts point out that the price of the Minneapolis paper plays little role in a bidder's more important calculations, like what the cash flow at Tribune would be or what the exit strategy would look like.
 Brian Hamilton, chief executive of Sageworks, a financial information company based in Raleigh, N.C., said that the performance signs for Tribune are all good.
 ''Tribune is very profitable,'' he said. ''It's rare that I see a company in any sector as profitable as this one is.'' He said Tribune's profit margins over the last six years ranged from 18 percent to 22 percent, compared with an average margin of 6 percent for all publicly traded companies in that period.
 But the price for The Star Tribune, and the recent write-down by the Times Company of The Globe, can complicate the process of setting a value for Tribune, analysts said, both as a whole and for its individual assets.
 ''Clearly, we've lost half the value of newspaper companies in two years,'' said Ken Doctor, the lead analyst for Outsell, a market research and consultant company for the information industry. Their most important task now, he said, is to figure out how to make enough money online to make up for what they are losing in advertising revenue in their print editions.
 ''No one in the industry has got it figured out,'' he said. ''And Minneapolis was just one further warning sign. It was one more data point, and it's hard to find positive data points that turn around the economic projection.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Feb. 13 about Gary B. Pruitt, chief executive of the newspaper chain, referred incorrectly to 55 jobs that are being outsourced to India by The Boston Globe, which is owned by The New York Times Company. They are support jobs, not newsroom positions. (The Globe has said it is eliminating 17 newsroom jobs and 2 positions on the editorial page staff.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gary Pruitt, chief of McClatchy, sold its largest paper, The Minneapolis Star Tribune, in December for half what it paid for it. (Photo by Ken James for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 The low price received for The Star Tribune has shadowed the Tribune Company, which has been for sale since last fall. (Photo by Jim Mone/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Graph: ''On the Decline''McClatchy, one of the largest newspaper companies, has seen its share price drop in the last year compared to the S.& P. 500-stock index and the Russell 3000 Publishing Newspapers Industry Index.Graph tracks percentage change for S.& P. 500, Mcclatchy Shares, and Media Index, since Jan. 3, 2006.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); OUTSOURCING (64%); BASEBALL (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (95%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (53%); WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (51%)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (95%); NYT (NYSE) (84%); CG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (93%); RON BURKLE (50%); ELI BROAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); NORTHEAST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



263 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Failed Bid Is Setback For Growth At Nasdaq

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES; Floyd Norris and Martin Fackler contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Nasdaq Stock Market faces the task of rebuilding its foreign expansion strategy after the emphatic rejection this weekend of its second unwelcome bid to acquire the London Stock Exchange.
 Less than one half of 1 percent of the London exchange's stockholders responded to Nasdaq's offer to acquire their shares for $24.35, leaving the American exchange well short of the majority it needed to take control. The bid, for a total of $5.3 billion, had brought about much public bickering between the two companies, with the London exchange calling the price too low.
The failed takeover leaves both the Nasdaq and the London Stock Exchange without a strong international presence at a time when stock trading has become an increasingly global business. NYSE Group, parent of the New York Stock Exchange, for instance, has made deals with three foreign exchanges within the last year. 
 One of those deals was a limited alliance last month with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which is now in talks with the London Stock Exchange over what might become a similar relationship, according to one Tokyo exchange official. If the London and Tokyo exchanges paired up, it could put even more pressure on Nasdaq to find a foreign partner. 
 The new arrangement between the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo exchange includes plans for joint listings of securities and exchange-traded funds, the exchange of trading technology and -- at some later time -- the possibility of future investments in each other's shares. The Tokyo exchange is the largest and wealthiest trading center in Asia and the second-largest in the world, after the New York Stock Exchange.
 That alliance was announced Jan. 31 during a visit to the New York exchange by the Tokyo exchange's president, Taizo Nishimuro. A report by the Kyodo news agency in Japan that Mr. Nishimuro may visit London soon, perhaps in late February, has led to speculation that a similar deal may be imminent.
 The London exchange has rejected a string of suitors over the past year, despite pressure from hedge funds and other private investors. After the deadline for the Nasdaq bid passed, the London exchange issued a statement saying that it ''looks forward to fulfilling its vision to be the world's capital market, without the distraction of ill-considered approaches which fail to understand the value of the business.''
 Robert Greifeld, Nasdaq's chief executive, responded to the setback by saying that his exchange ''will continue to pursue other opportunities to build on its existing position as the world's largest electronic equities exchange.''
 Under British takeover rules, Nasdaq cannot make another bid for the London exchange for a year unless someone else does so. Nasdaq still holds about 28 percent of the London exchange's outstanding shares, a stake so large that it would make it hard for anyone else to buy the London exchange without its approval.
 Even so, the New York Stock Exchange is seen as a potential bidder. At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last month, John A. Thain, the Big Board's chief executive, praised the London Stock Exchange as having the second strongest brand in world stock markets, behind his own.
 Mr. Thain said that he was not interested in any new mergers until the New York exchange completed integrating its operations with those of Euronext, the Paris-based European marketplace. That process will take about a year, he said.
 People informed about Nasdaq's strategy would say only that the exchange intended to keep its options open. Holding on to its London Stock Exchange stake, which was largely financed with borrowed funds, would be inconsistent with Nasdaq's argument over the past year that the London exchange's shares were overvalued. 
 Keeping the shares ''doesn't make sense,'' said William C. Freund, a former chief economist at the New York Stock Exchange and now the director of the Center for the Study of Securities Markets at Pace University. ''It was a long shot to begin with. I would expect them to sell.''
 If there is a winner in the weekend's drama, Professor Freund said, it is perhaps the New York Stock Exchange. ''There has been an intense competition among markets globally, but particularly between the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq,'' he said. ''It seems to me this puts Nasdaq significantly behind in the race.''
 Besides its alliance with Tokyo and merger with Euronext, the New York Stock Exchange has also bought a 5 percent stake in the National Stock Exchange, India's largest market. Its Tokyo alliance could lead to a more substantial tie-up after 2009, when the Japanese exchange is scheduled to make its own initial public offering. It had originally planned to do this last year, but delayed the listing after embarrassing and costly computer problems that repeatedly paralyzed trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (96%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); DIVESTITURES (73%); BONDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Foreign Investments; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NYSE GROUP INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Nasdaq Stock Market; London Stock Exchange; Nyse Group

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT GREIFELD (58%) Diana B Henriques

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ASIA (54%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



264 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: NUCLEAR TALKS ON NORTH KOREA HIT A ROADBLOCK

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Negotiations on a step-by-step deal that the Bush administration hopes will lead North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program appeared near collapse on Sunday over North Korea's demands for huge shipments of fuel oil and electricity before agreeing to a schedule for turning over its nuclear weapons and fuel.
 The chief American envoy, Christopher R. Hill, said he and North Korea's envoy, Kim Kye-gwan, held a ''lengthy and very frank'' meeting on Sunday. But Mr. Hill seemed much less optimistic that a deal could be struck. Negotiators are planning to end the talks on Monday, and other envoys were pessimistic that any breakthrough would emerge on the final day.
Meanwhile, a summary of the proposed agreement being circulated among senior policy makers in Washington makes it clear that even if the North agreed to take the listed first steps -- sealing its main nuclear reactor and inviting international inspectors back into the country -- it would not be required to turn over any nuclear weapons or weapons fuel that it has produced in recent years for an unspecified period of time, and then only after reaching another agreement. 
 In essence, the agreement Mr. Hill, an assistant secretary of state, is negotiating could prevent the North from producing more weapons, but defers discussions over the weapons and fuel it has stockpiled. Mr. Hill had earlier suggested that if there was agreement, follow-up talks could be set up in March and April.
 The summary calls for all six nations in the talks -- the others are South Korea, Japan, China and Russia -- to ''create working groups for full and rapid implementation'' of a September 2005 agreement in which the North agreed in principle to abandon its nuclear weapons. But in the past, the North Korean envoys to similar working groups have proven to have no real negotiating authority. Furthermore, the proposed agreement sets no dates on nuclear action beyond shutting down the nuclear plant at Yongbyon and allowing inspectors in within 60 days; it leaves unresolved what the North would get in return. The summary was given to The New York Times by a source trying to explain the timing and vagueness of the deal's elements.
 After months of preparation that created unusual optimism within the Bush administration, failure to reach even a preliminary agreement could cast doubt on the prospects of disarming North Korea in the administration's last two years. Several Asian diplomats said they feared that North Korea had sensed the American distraction in Iraq and could be trying to run out the clock until the election of a new president. 
 At the same time, the North is under pressure because of the effectiveness of financial sanctions, particularly those aimed at Kim Jong-il and other North Korean leaders, and it may feel this is a good time to extract concessions from the South Korean government, which is clinging to economic ties to the North. 
 Mr. Hill, a seasoned negotiator who played a critical role in the Dayton accords that ended conflict in the Balkans in 1995, made it clear that the United States would not sign a deal that provided North Korea with energy but failed to ensure that it gave up its nuclear material. 
 ''We're not looking to provide energy assistance so that they could avoid taking the further steps on denuclearization,'' he said at a news conference late Sunday in Beijing. ''We understand that you can't just get there in one jump, you have to take several steps, so we're prepared to take several steps.''
 He added, ''But we're not interested in providing that kind of assistance so that they don't have to take the next step.'' 
 In the past, the North has always insisted that it get rewards before giving away the nuclear ability that Mr. Kim regards as his sole international bargaining chip. 
 Kyodo, the Japanese news agency, has reported that North Korea wants an annual energy package of two million tons of fuel oil and two million kilowatts of electricity for taking the first steps in the agreement. It quoted unidentifed diplomatic sources who said the North also wanted a short-term infusion of hundreds of thousands of tons of fuel oil almost immediately. That presumably would be a reward for shutting down Yongbyon, even though Yongbyon does not provide electric energy to the country.
 Any deal would inevitably be compared with the 1994 agreement between the Clinton administration and North Korea. President Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice have criticized that accord because it involved a ''freeze'' on activity that the North could quickly reverse, and because it left the shipment of weapons and fuel out of the country to the very end. The agreement fell apart in 2002, and the North is believed to have then converted its spent nuclear fuel into weapons. 
 The North tested its first nuclear device in October, though with only partial success. 
 Outside experts familiar with the outlines of the proposed deal say that the Bush administration would give up relatively little at the beginning -- but it would also receive little.
 ''Freezing and disabling Yongbyon is an important but modest step,'' said Michael Green, who negotiated with North Korea as the top Asia expert at the National Security Council until he left a year ago. ''It does not yet capture harvested plutonium and the existing weapons.'' 
 If a deal holds together, he said, ''the key will be retaining leverage'' on the North by preventing China, Russia and South Korea from increasing their economic cooperation so much that that their actions negate the United Nations Security Council sanctions on the North.
 According to the outline, the proposed agreement would establish ''tight timelines for actions that are measured in months, not years,'' and would include a flurry of activity in the first 60 days. That would include shutting down the Yongbyon facilities. 
 Inspectors would return to the country for the first time in more than four years, and the North would have to declare ''all of its existing nuclear programs.'' That is a reference to the American accusation that the North has a hidden program to enrich uranium, purchased from the rogue Pakistani scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan. The North once admitted to the existence of the program, American officials say, but has since denied it.
 The working groups outlined by the proposed agreement would discuss denuclearization, economic and energy cooperation, normalization of diplomatic relations, and a peace treaty formally ending the Korean War. The North's commitments, the document says, ''are to all five other parties, including China,'' and it says that ''conventional energy assistance will be determined by the working group and will be commensurate with the steps'' North Korea takes to fulfill its commitments. 
 The huge annual energy package North Korea is demanding would eclipse the aid provided under the 1994 deal, when the North was promised light-water nuclear reactors with a generating capacity of two million kilowatts of electricity, as well as a temporary fix of 500,000 tons of heavy fuel oil. 
 The chief Japanese envoy, Kenichiro Sasae, told Kyodo, ''The problem is that North Korea has excessive expectations about this, and unless it reconsiders this issue, an agreement will be difficult.''
 North Korea's insistence on the package deflated the optimism that had infused the early days of this round of talks and spread to senior officials in the White House, who said they expected a deal this weekend.By Sunday afternoon, diplomats had decided that Monday would be the final day of talks, agreement or no. According to Reuters, South Korea's representative, Chun Yung-woo, blamed the size of the energy package ''and the scope, pace and range of the North's actions to denuclearize'' for the stalemate.
 The Russian envoy, Aleksandr Losyukov, suggested that the best outcome might be a ''chairman's statement'' by China that summarized the negotiations.
 ''It seems the chances to reach a joint statement are slim,'' Mr. Losyukov said, according to Xinhua, China's official news agency.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher R. Hill, the United States' chief negotiator, met yesterday with North Korea's envoy. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); POWER PLANTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) Jim Yardley; David E Sanger; Christopher R (Asst Sec) Hill; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



265 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: Believing Scripture but Playing by Science's Rules

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

DATELINE: KINGSTON, R.I. 

 BODY:
There is nothing much unusual about the 197-page dissertation Marcus R. Ross submitted in December to complete his doctoral degree in geosciences here at the University of Rhode Island. 
 His subject was the abundance and spread of mosasaurs, marine reptiles that, as he wrote, vanished at the end of the Cretaceous era about 65 million years ago. The work is ''impeccable,'' said David E. Fastovsky, a paleontologist and professor of geosciences at the university who was Dr. Ross's dissertation adviser. ''He was working within a strictly scientific framework, a conventional scientific framework.''
But Dr. Ross is hardly a conventional paleontologist. He is a ''young earth creationist'' -- he believes that the Bible is a literally true account of the creation of the universe, and that the earth is at most 10,000 years old.
 For him, Dr. Ross said, the methods and theories of paleontology are one ''paradigm'' for studying the past, and Scripture is another. In the paleontological paradigm, he said, the dates in his dissertation are entirely appropriate. The fact that as a young earth creationist he has a different view just means, he said, ''that I am separating the different paradigms.'' 
 He likened his situation to that of a socialist studying economics in a department with a supply-side bent. ''People hold all sorts of opinions different from the department in which they graduate,'' he said. ''What's that to anybody else?''
 But not everyone is happy with that approach. ''People go somewhat bananas when they hear about this,'' said Jon C. Boothroyd, a professor of geosciences at Rhode Island. 
 In theory, scientists look to nature for answers to questions about nature, and test those answers with experiment and observation. For Biblical literalists, Scripture is the final authority. As a creationist raised in an evangelical household and a paleontologist who said he was ''just captivated'' as a child by dinosaurs and fossils, Dr. Ross embodies conflicts between these two approaches. The conflicts arise often these days, particularly as people debate the teaching of evolution. 
 And, for some, his case raises thorny philosophical and practical questions. May a secular university deny otherwise qualified students a degree because of their religion? Can a student produce intellectually honest work that contradicts deeply held beliefs? Should it be obligatory (or forbidden) for universities to consider how students will use the degrees they earn?
 Those are ''darned near imponderable issues,'' said John W. Geissman, who has considered them as a professor of earth and planetary sciences at the University of New Mexico. For example, Dr. Geissman said, Los Alamos National Laboratory has a geophysicist on staff, John R. Baumgardner, who is an authority on the earth's mantle -- and also a young earth creationist. 
 If researchers like Dr. Baumgardner do their work ''without any form of interjection of personal dogma,'' Dr. Geissman said, ''I would have to keep as objective a hat on as possible and say, 'O.K., you earned what you earned.' ''
 Others say the crucial issue is not whether Dr. Ross deserved his degree but how he intends to use it. 
 In a telephone interview, Dr. Ross said his goal in studying at secular institutions ''was to acquire the training that would make me a good paleontologist, regardless of which paradigm I was using.'' 
 Today he teaches earth science at Liberty University, the conservative Christian institution founded by the Rev. Jerry Falwell where, Dr. Ross said, he uses a conventional scientific text.
 ''We also discuss the intersection of those sorts of ideas with Christianity,'' he said. ''I don't require my students to say or write their assent to one idea or another any more than I was required.''
 But he has also written and spoken on scientific subjects, and with a creationist bent. While still a graduate student, he appeared on a DVD arguing that intelligent design, an ideological cousin of creationism, is a better explanation than evolution for the Cambrian explosion, a rapid diversification of animal life that occurred about 500 million years ago.
 Online information about the DVD identifies Dr. Ross as ''pursuing a Ph.D. in geosciences'' at the University of Rhode Island. It is this use of a secular credential to support creationist views that worries many scientists.
 Eugenie C. Scott, executive director of the National Center for Science Education, a private group on the front line of the battle for the teaching of evolution, said fundamentalists who capitalized on secular credentials ''to miseducate the public'' were doing a disservice. 
 Michael L. Dini, a professor of biology education at Texas Tech University, goes even further. In 2003, he was threatened with a federal investigation when students complained that he would not write letters of recommendation for graduate study for anyone who would not offer ''a scientific answer'' to questions about how the human species originated. 
 Nothing came of it, Dr. Dini said in an interview, adding, ''Scientists do not base their acceptance or rejection of theories on religion, and someone who does should not be able to become a scientist.''
 A somewhat more complicated issue arose last year at Ohio State University, where Bryan Leonard, a high school science teacher working toward a doctorate in education, was preparing to defend his dissertation on the pedagogical usefulness of teaching alternatives to the theory of evolution. 
 Earle M. Holland, a spokesman for the university, said Mr. Leonard and his adviser canceled the defense when questions arose about the composition of the faculty committee that would hear it. 
 Meanwhile three faculty members had written the university administration, arguing that Mr. Leonard's project violated the university's research standards in that the students involved were being subjected to something harmful (the idea that there were scientific alternatives to the theory of evolution) without receiving any benefit. 
 Citing privacy rules, Mr. Holland would not discuss the case in detail, beyond saying that Mr. Leonard was still enrolled in the graduate program. But Mr. Leonard has become a hero to people who believe that creationists are unfairly treated by secular institutions.
 Perhaps the most famous creationist wearing the secular mantle of science is Kurt P. Wise, who earned his doctorate at Harvard in 1989 under the guidance of the paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould, a leading theorist of evolution who died in 2002. 
 Dr. Wise, who teaches at the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., wrote his dissertation on gaps in the fossil record. But rather than suggest, as many creationists do, that the gaps challenge the wisdom of Darwin's theory, Dr. Wise described a statistical approach that would allow paleontologists to infer when a given species was present on earth, millions of years ago, even if the fossil evidence was incomplete. 
 Dr. Wise, who declined to comment for this article, is a major figure in creationist circles today, and his Gould connection appears prominently on his book jackets and elsewhere. 
 ''He is lionized,'' Dr. Scott said. ''He is the young earth creationist with a degree from Harvard.'' 
 As for Dr. Ross, ''he does good science, great science,'' said Dr. Boothroyd, who taught him in a class in glacial geology. But in talks and other appearances, Dr. Boothroyd went on, Dr. Ross is already using ''the fact that he has a Ph.D. from a legitimate science department as a springboard.'' 
 Dr. Ross, 30, grew up in Rhode Island in an evangelical Christian family. He attended Pennsylvania State University and then the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, where he wrote his master's thesis on marine fossils found in the state.
 His creationism aroused ''some concern by faculty members there, and disagreements,'' he recalled, and there were those who argued that his religious beliefs should bar him from earning an advanced degree in paleontology. 
 ''But in the end I had a decent thesis project and some people who, like the people at U.R.I., were kind to me, and I ended up going through,'' Dr. Ross said.
 Dr. Fastovsky and other members of the Rhode Island faculty said they knew about these disagreements, but admitted him anyway. Dr. Boothroyd, who was among those who considered the application, said they judged Dr. Ross on his academic record, his test scores and his master's thesis, ''and we said, 'O.K., we can do this.' ''
 He added, ''We did not know nearly as much about creationism and young earth and intelligent design as we do now.''
 For his part, Dr. Ross says, ''Dr. Fastovsky was liberal in the most generous and important sense of the term.''
 He would not say whether he shared the view of some young earth creationists that flaws in paleontological dating techniques erroneously suggest that the fossils are far older than they really are. 
 Asked whether it was intellectually honest to write a dissertation so at odds with his religious views, he said: ''I was working within a particular paradigm of earth history. I accepted that philosophy of science for the purpose of working with the people'' at Rhode Island. 
 And though his dissertation repeatedly described events as occurring tens of millions of years ago, Dr. Ross added, ''I did not imply or deny any endorsement of the dates.''
 Dr. Fastovsky said he had talked to Dr. Ross ''lots of times'' about his religious beliefs, but that depriving him of his doctorate because of them would be nothing more than religious discrimination. ''We are not here to certify his religious beliefs,'' he said. ''All I can tell you is he came here and did science that was completely defensible.''
 Steven B. Case, a research professor at the Center for Research Learning at the University of Kansas, said it would be wrong to ''censor someone for a belief system as long as it does not affect their work. Science is an open enterprise to anyone who practices it.''
 Dr. Case, who champions the teaching of evolution, heads the committee writing state science standards in Kansas, a state particularly racked by challenges to Darwin. Even so, he said it would be frightening if universities began ''enforcing some sort of belief system on their graduate students.''
 But Dr. Scott, a former professor of physical anthropology at the University of Colorado, said in an interview that graduate admissions committees were entitled to consider the difficulties that would arise from admitting a doctoral candidate with views ''so at variance with what we consider standard science.'' She said such students ''would require so much remedial instruction it would not be worth my time.''
 That is not religious discrimination, she added, it is discrimination ''on the basis of science.''
 Dr. Dini, of Texas Tech, agreed. Scientists ''ought to make certain the people they are conferring advanced degrees on understand the philosophy of science and are indeed philosophers of science,'' he said. ''That's what Ph.D. stands for.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marcus R. Ross (pg. A1)
David E. Fastovsky, left, and Jon C. Boothroyd, professors at the University of Rhode Island, defend the science done by Marcus R. Ross. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
 Prof. Steven B. Case of the University of Kansas said it would be frightening if universities began ''enforcing some sort of belief system.'' (Photo by Cris Cummins for The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CREATIONISM (91%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (91%); BIOLOGY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); EVOLUTION THEORY (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (69%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (60%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (60%) Paleontology; Science and Technology; Evolution; Creationism and Intelligent Design; Bible; Mosasaurs; Paleontology; Freedom of Religion; Paleontology

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF RHODE ISLAND (93%); UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (59%); LIBERTY UNIVERSITY (59%) Liberty University; University of Rhode Island

PERSON: Marcus R (Dr) Ross; David E (Prof) Fastovsky; Cornelia Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (86%); EARTH (79%); KANSAS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



266 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: A Neighbor Moves In With Ropes and Shackles, and Some Are Not So Pleased

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
It is hard to imagine a city prouder of its sexuality than San Francisco, a place with an active strip club district, a union for erotic dancers and an annual parade on Folsom Street where those not wearing leather and chaps are the odd ones out.
 So it came as something of a surprise when a kerfuffle arose because of the newest addition to the city's sexual landscape: the State Armory and Arsenal building, a 200,000-square-foot landmark in the Mission District that was just purchased by Kink.com, an online pornography company devoted to bondage and sadomasochism. 
Peter Acworth, the company's founder and chief executive, said he planned to turn the armory into a full-fledged film studio, with dirty movies shot in the basement and less-dirty ones shot upstairs. 
 ''I want to make films like 'Secretary,' '' Mr. Acworth said, referring to the 2002 mainstream hit about a woman who has a kinky love affair with her lawyer boss. ''But with more sex.'' 
 But somewhere between his purchase and the first paddling, Mr. Acworth has run into strong opposition from a group of neighborhood activists who long feared that the armory, vacant since 1975, would be converted into something truly taboo: condominiums. 
 Some of the previous efforts to use the armory were derailed by anti-gentrification forces who wanted more affordable housing in the Mission, an economically and racially mixed area where hipsters and the homeless are represented in equal numbers.
 But this time around, opponents insist they are not being prudish, just prudent, considering the building's proximity to schools and families. 
 ''Everybody thought it was going to be housing, and then mid-January, we get this bomb,'' said Anita Correa, who runs an arts theater in the neighborhood. ''Everybody was taken by shock.''
 Ms. Correa added: ''The new owner said they would create jobs. But what kind of jobs are we talking about here?'' 
 Mr. Acworth said his business was totally legitimate, with safe working conditions, willing and well-paid models, and a ''condom-only policy.'' (As for those jobs, Mr. Acworth said he was mainly talking about production assistants, including people working in props, sets, lighting and photography. ''We have a very low turnover,'' he said.) 
 Mr. Acworth, a 36-year-old Briton and a former doctoral candidate in finance, started his company in 1997 out of his dorm room at business school, uniting his interest in business with other interests, namely tying people up. And his sites -- nine are up and running, and four more are on the way -- have apparently hit a nerve: in 2006, Kink.com had about $20 million in revenue and about 70 full-time employees, Mr. Acworth said.
 ''I think it's something that many more people are into than would otherwise admit,'' he said. ''And we present it in a friendly way. You see women smiling. It doesn't look like abuse, so it attracts people that are curious about it.''
 Sure enough, a visit to Kink.com's main Web site shows women in a variety of painful-looking rope ensembles. Some are naked, some are nearly naked and some are, indeed, smiling. (Some, however, are not.)
 The company's current downtown offices are filled with editors and Webmasters who sit before row after row of large-screen computers, while bored-looking crew members haul lights, cameras and cat-o'-nine-tails from set -- dungeon, jail cell, suburbia -- to set. 
 Mr. Acworth said he was looking to expand his fast-growing business and fell in love with the castle-like armory the moment he laid eyes on its lower levels. 
 ''The basement had a series of rooms that looked like dungeons,'' said Mr. Acworth, who bought the building from a private developer for $14.5 million. ''It just has such character.''
 The Kink.com plan is the latest chapter in the long and somewhat tortured history of the armory, which is on the National Register of Historic Places. Built between 1912 and 1914, the brick-and-mortar building has long been a redevelopment challenge for San Francisco, with its landmark status and the city's famously vociferous activist set derailing plan after plan over the last three decades. 
 Among the possible occupants have been a nonprofit rehabilitation clinic; a mainstream film studio and sound stage; and a gym that would have taken advantage of the building's 70-foot ceilings to install a rock-climbing wall. In 2000, a plan for a dot-com office was derailed, as was a subsequent idea to use the armory's enclosed drill yard -- itself the size of a football field -- to house computer servers. 
 The most recent plan before Kink.com's purchase was for a mixed-use residential and office project that would have built luxury apartments and some lower-income housing atop and alongside the existing building. 
 Tim Frye, a historic preservation specialist for the San Francisco Planning Department, said the architecture of the armory -- small, narrow windows; no elevator; poor insulation -- meant that any major conversion would most likely have been complicated by the building's landmark status. 
 ''It's not a friendly building,'' Mr. Frye said. ''It's really imposing, and a lot of the preservation board thinks that housing wasn't a really good use.'' 
 Planning officials said Kink.com had no major governmental hurdles because it planned to do very little to the building, aside from fixing some windows and installing some shackles. But there will be a public meeting in April, they said, to hear any concerns from the community, at the request of Mayor Gavin Newsom. (Mr. Newsom has had his own sex-related problems, having recently admitted an affair with his campaign manager's wife.)
 Mr. Acworth said he wanted to be a good neighbor -- he recently appeared at a local merchants association meeting and has offered to hold the next one -- while still being a naughty boy. Kink.com has already shot its first scenes in the armory, which has ready-to-use settings, including a shower room, a boiler room and a collection of horse stables.
 Mr. Acworth also predicted that his neighbors would eventually embrace his presence. ''It's a company built here in San Francisco with San Franciscans,'' he said. ''I just think it needs time to register.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Acworth, the founder of Kink.com, inside the State Armory and Arsenal building in San Francisco, where he recently moved his company. People gathered outside it on Thursday to protest the new occupant. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (88%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); MOVIE FILMING (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); DANCERS (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (73%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (61%); JOB CREATION (61%); EXECUTIVES (54%); LAWYERS (52%) Pornography; Armories; Housing; Motion Pictures; Pornography

ORGANIZATION: Kink.com

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



267 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: City to Revisit Cap on Prices In Trash Pickup

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Has the mob been so thoroughly routed from the garbage-hauling business in New York City that decades-old pricing regulations can now be scrapped?
 The Bloomberg administration is seeking an answer to that question, one rarely voiced by public officials since the city's Trade Waste Commission declared victory over organized crime 10 years ago and lowered the limits on how much commercial carters could charge.
 The city's Economic Development Corporation wants to hire a consultant to study the market for removing trash from businesses in the city. Last week, it finished accepting bids for the study, which would be the first in-depth look at the industry and its pricing since 1997.
 A central subject of the study will be whether to eliminate caps on the rates the haulers can charge hotels, restaurants, office buildings and other commercial establishments. The city has capped those rates for 50 years, with occasional increases to account for inflation. But the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani lowered the limit in 1997, to $12.20 per cubic yard from $14.70, and it has not changed since. (Residential garbage is collected by the city's Sanitation Department.) 
 The waste-hauling industry has been lobbying city officials and council members to remove the cap, arguing that no other competitive business in the city is told how much it can charge. Last week, the top executive of one of the city's biggest commercial garbage collectors campaigned publicly against the cap while announcing the acquisition of a competitor. 
 ''We and many in our industry hope that the Bloomberg administration will come to the only logical conclusion possible -- that the rate cap must be radically changed,'' the executive, Mickey Flood of the IESI Corporation, said in a statement. Mr. Flood said that Texas-based IESI had bought the New York City commercial operations of Allied Waste Industries, a big national company that has withdrawn from the city.
 The limit on carting charges is a vestige of the days when the commercial trash business was controlled by a cartel of companies affiliated with organized crime families, said Michael E. McMahon, a Staten Island Democrat who is chairman of the City Council's Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Committee. 
 The first lowering of the cap came as Mr. Giuliani was trumpeting the stamping out of the ''Mafia cartel'' that had been ''holding New York City's private carting industry hostage.'' The office of Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney at the time, said a five-year investigation in the 1990s had shown that organized crime had extracted a ''mob tax'' of $500 million a year by dividing up the city and heading off competition.
 The cap ''was a way to control the industry and freeze out mob-related companies,'' Mr. McMahon said recently.
 Current and former city officials have expressed concern that eliminating the cap would serve as an invitation to organized crime to infiltrate the business again. It may be time to consider raising the limit to account for rising costs of labor, fuel and dumping, they say, but getting rid of the cap altogether is a different matter.
 ''I don't think we've been convinced that there's the need to remove the cap,'' Mr. McMahon said. He added that he was concerned about the effect of a sharp rise in carting charges. ''If there's a dramatic increase, it could really hurt small business,'' he said.
 The city's Business Integrity Commission, which regulates more than 100 commercial carters, said in a statement that rising costs made the issue ''ripe for consideration at this time.'' 
 But the commission's chairman, Thomas McCormack, declined to say whether the commission would endorse eliminating the cap.
 Still, the industry is pressing its case at City Hall, sensing that the Bloomberg administration is sympathetic to free-market arguments.
 ''If you're a bodega or the Four Seasons and you sell orange juice, you're allowed to charge whatever you want,'' said David Biderman, general counsel for the National Solid Wastes Management Association. ''The same should be true for the garbage business.''
 No other big city in the country imposes such a limit on how much garbage haulers can charge, Mr. Biderman said.
 Executives of hauling companies said it was the vigilance of the Business Integrity Commission and its investigators, not the price cap, that has kept the mob away from the city's Dumpsters.
 ''The cartel and everything else they said was going on back then is long gone,'' said Thomas N. Toscano, chief financial officer of the Mr. T Carting Corporation of Glendale, Queens. ''Customers are free to change carters and to shop around. There is rigorous competition out there.''
 Mr. Toscano said that Mr. T, with 18 rear-loading trucks, was one of the 10 biggest private carters in the city, though still considerably smaller than Waste Management and IESI, which dominate the office districts of Manhattan. But he said his company's labor costs were at least as high as those of its biggest competitors. Mr. T's unionized drivers earn salaries of at least $55,000 and with overtime make more than $80,000 a year, he said.
 With the rising costs of labor and fuel squeezing profits, Mr. Toscano said, Mr. T recently reduced the commission it pays its sales representatives for bringing in new customers whose garbage is wet and heavy, such as restaurants and food shops. Wet garbage is more expensive to dispose of than the dry trash from office buildings and card shops, and harder to earn a profit on, he said.
 IESI, which will have more than 60 rear-loading trucks on the streets of New York, specializes in carting lighter office trash, said Edward L. Apuzzi, a vice president of the company. But he said IESI would still have trouble earning an acceptable profit if the cap was not raised or removed.
 ''The cap is a huge issue for all hauling operations in New York City,'' said Mr. Apuzzi, who added that he believed the cap was a principal factor in Allied's exit.
 ''We aren't suggesting that the Business Integrity Commission no longer exist,'' Mr. Apuzzi said. ''But the rate cap -- I think it's really outlived its usefulness at this point. In the 1990s, I'm sure it was useful to get the so-called bad guys out. But I don't think that element exists in the marketplace right now.''
 On that score, Mr. Apuzzi would get no argument from the man who prosecuted the leaders of the cartel a decade ago. The prosecutor, Daniel J. Castleman, chief of investigations in the Manhattan district attorney's office, said the regulations imposed in the wake of those cases had worked fairly well and fostered healthy competition.
 ''We do not believe that organized crime has come back into carting in any major way,'' Mr. Castleman said. He said he would not weigh in on the city's decision about the cap, but said his office's general philosophy was that ''there ought to be a level playing field where there can be real competition so that the market sets the price.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about New York City's plans to revisit its 10-year-old price caps on the commercial trash-hauling industry referred imprecisely to Robert M. Morgenthau, whose office said in 1997 that carters were overcharging their customers by extracting a ''mob tax'' of $500 million a year. Mr. Morgenthau was then and remains the Manhattan district attorney; he did not just hold that office ''at the time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees of Mr. T Carting collected trash along Metropolitan Avenue in Maspeth, Queens. A company leader says competition in the business is robust. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. B6)Chart: ''Waste Hauling Rates''The city plans to study whether to eliminate a cap on the rate garbage haulers can charge for collecting commercial trash. The rates have not changed since the city lowered the limit in 1997.Graph tracks the rate garbage haulers can charge for collecting commercial trash since 1974.(Source by New York City Business Integrity Commission)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); CARTELS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); MAYORS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LOBBYING (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); ACQUISITIONS (64%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Organized Crime; Consultants; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: PROGRESSIVE WASTE SOLUTIONS LTD (81%); REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Economic Development Corp (NYC)

TICKER: BIN (TSX) (81%); BIN (NYSE) (81%); RSG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (81%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (81%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (53%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



268 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Appalachia Redux

 BODY:
Forty-three years ago, President Lyndon Johnson stood on a ramshackle porch in a Kentucky coal hollow to take up the cause of Appalachia. An unusual quasigovernmental commission was created, embracing 410 impoverished counties in 13 states -- a trench line in Johnson's war on poverty that swept from northern Mississippi to southern New York. 
 The Appalachian Regional Commission is still going strong. Over the decades the area's poverty rate has fallen by half and infant mortality by two-thirds. We cite this overlooked bit of hard-knocks progress not just to puncture the canard that government is always the problem, not the solution. (President Ronald Reagan tried and failed to abolish the commission.) But also to urge renewal of the commission's authority for its unfinished business.
As an innovative joint effort of local, state and federal government plus private business, the commission has leveraged aid and loans to develop 2,300 miles of new highways, bring water and sewer pipes to hundreds of thousands of households, and build hundreds of rural health care outposts and vocational education centers. Not all of the investments have been bull's-eyes. And there are areas where severe poverty reigns. But a five-year renewal is in order, particularly considering the returns reaped for a $90 million annual federal investment. 
 A renewal bill foundered last year when appropriators tried to weight its budget with pork. This year, a bill with a truer agenda is heading for the House floor, shepherded by Representative James Oberstar. He is a Democrat from Minnesota whose ties to Appalachia date back to his days as a young Congressional staff member who helped write the commission's founding legislation. ''The structure's sound, the investments need to continue,'' the congressman properly insists, emboldened to claim government's role has not been half bad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); POVERTY RATES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); INFANT MORTALITY (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (52%) United States Economy; Editorials; Antipoverty Programs

ORGANIZATION: APPALACHIAN REGIONAL COMMISSION (57%) Appalachian Region Commission

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%); JIM OBERSTAR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) Appalachian Region

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



269 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 313 words

 BODY:
CHRYSLER RESTRUCTURING -- The big scheduled event of the week will be on Wednesday when DaimlerChrysler is expected to announce its restructuring plan for Chrysler along with its quarterly results. Chrysler is emphasizing trucks and S.U.V.'s at the Chicago Auto Show this week, even though the marketplace has been favoring cars. Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, right, will explain the company's plans.FED TESTIMONY -- Also on Wednesday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, will deliver his semiannual testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, discussing the American economy and monetary policy. 
He will repeat the appearance on Thursday before the House Financial Services Committee.RECORD DEFICIT? -- On Tuesday the Commerce Department will announce the trade deficit for December, which is expected to set a record at nearly $60 billion. The full-year number for 2006 will also be given. MORE METRICS -- On Monday, the Council of Economic Advisers will deliver its annual report to President Bush on the state of the economy. Other economic reports this week: Retail sales for January, and December business inventories (Wednesday); industrial production and capacity utilization for January and import prices for January (Thursday); producer price index for January, housing starts for January and the February University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).EARNINGS REPORTS -- It will be a fairly heavy week for earnings. Among the companies reporting: Loews and Yum Brands (Monday); KB Home, Manulife Financial, Marsh & McLennan, MetLife, Nasdaq, the Omnicom Group and UBS (Tuesday); Coca-Cola, Deere and Office Depot (Wednesday); Credit Suisse and Vonage (Thursday); and Campbell Soup and Hormel Foods (Friday).EARLY CLOSE FOR BONDS -- On Friday, the bond market will close early in advance of the Presidents' Day holiday next Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PRODUCER PRICES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); BONDS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HOUSING STARTS (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); IMPORT PRICES (66%); BOND MARKETS (63%); RETAIL SALES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (66%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); KB HOME CORP (54%); YUM! BRANDS INC (54%); MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (54%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (66%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); MMC (NYSE) (56%); MHM (LSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (54%); KBH (NYSE) (54%); YUM (NYSE) (54%); MFC (TSX) (54%); MFC (NYSE) (54%); 0945 (HKSE) (54%); VG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



270 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Hindalco of India Buys Aluminum Rival

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Hindalco Industries of India, the aluminum producer, said on Sunday that it would buy a North American rival, Novelis, for $3.6 billion, another sign that cross-border deal making is heating up in India. 
 Hindalco, based in Mumbai, is an Asian leader in aluminum and copper manufacturing and a crown jewel of the Indian conglomerate, the Aditya Birla Group. Novelis is the world's largest producer of rolled aluminum, and a large recycler of aluminum cans, with 12,500 employees in 11 countries, and a market value of $2.9 billion.
The deal comes just days after another Indian conglomerate, the Tata Group, sealed a $12 billion deal for the British steel company, Corus, while Vodafone won a global battle for control of the Indian cellphone operator Hutchison Essar on Sunday. 
 Flush with cash thanks to a fast-growing economy and high profit margins, Indian companies are increasingly looking to expand overseas, while foreign companies are eager to get access to India's growing middle class.
 Hindalco is paying $44.93 a share for Novelis, which is headquartered in Atlanta, but incorporated in Canada. Hindalco is also assuming about $2.4 billion in Novelis debt. The transaction values Novelis at $6 billion.
 ''The complementary expertise of both these companies will create and provide a strong platform for sustainable growth and ongoing success,'' the Aditya Birla chairman, Kumar Mangalam Birla, said. The cash payout represents a 17 percent premium to Novelis's closing share price on Friday in New York.
 Aditya Birla, which has 86,000 employees in industries from clothing to mining to financial services, is also planning to start a chain of supermarkets in India. 
 Novelis's shares have risen more than 30 percent since last month on takeover speculation. The company has struggled as the price of raw materials has risen. In late January, it said it was in discussions that could lead to a possible sale.
 Rolled aluminum is used to make goods, from boat hulls to beer cans.
 The boards of both companies have agreed to the deal, but it also must be approved by two-thirds of Novelis's shareholders. The companies said they expected the transaction to close in the second quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); APPROVALS (61%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (57%) Aluminum; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: NOVELIS INC (92%); TATA GROUP (90%); HINDALCO INDUSTRIES LTD (84%); ADITYA BIRLA GROUP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Hindalco Industries; Novelis (Co); Aditya Birla Group

TICKER: HINDALCO (NSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (92%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (84%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%)

PERSON: KUMAR BIRLA (79%) Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) INDIA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (75%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



271 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Softly, Gates Counters Putin's Words On U.S. Power

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: MUNICH, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, disputing a lengthy critique of American power by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Saturday, said Sunday at a European security conference here, ''One cold war was quite enough.''
 Government leaders, legislators and military officials here continued speculating on Mr. Putin's motivation for delivering his long list of complaints about American domination of global affairs, but Mr. Gates chose words of velvet, not steel, in offering Washington's fullest response. As Mr. Putin had, he invoked the cold war more than once.
''As an old cold warrior, one of yesterday's speeches almost filled me with nostalgia for a less complex time,'' he said. ''Almost.'' 
 Mr. Gates, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency called back to government service from academia to become defense secretary, told attendees of the 43rd Munich Conference on Security Policy that both he and Mr. Putin had spent most of their careers in their governments' spy agencies.
 ''And, I guess, old spies have a habit of blunt speaking,'' Mr. Gates said. ''However, I have been to re-education camp -- spending four and half years as a university president and dealing with faculty.'' His remark drew laughs and applause.
 His sharpest response to Mr. Putin was gently couched. ''Russia is a partner in endeavors,'' Mr. Gates said. ''But we wonder, too, about some Russian policies that seem to work against international stability, such as its arms transfers and its temptation to use energy resources for political coercion.''
 Throughout the rebuttal, and in a longer discourse on how America's European allies must help rebuild Afghanistan and remain engaged in the fight against terrorism, Mr. Gates mentioned Mr. Putin only once by name. That came when he said he had accepted an invitation from Mr. Putin to visit Moscow.
 On Saturday, Russia's defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, a Putin confidant, denied that Mr. Putin's speech had been confrontational. ''We are not interested in imposing our opinion on anybody,'' Mr. Ivanov said. But he cautioned that his government would not support international actions taken without consultation with Russia, nor those taken without its consent, and certainly none that are ''imposed on Russia.'' 
 The speech by Mr. Gates was delivered under the long shadow of his predecessor, Donald H. Rumsfeld, who both charmed and offended European audiences during his tenure as defense secretary, which included several speeches to this conference.
 Mr. Gates cast himself as a geopolitical realist and drew a knowing laugh when he focused on Mr. Putin's assertion that the United States and its allies were dividing Europe.
 ''All of these characterizations belong in the past,'' Mr. Gates said. ''The free world versus those behind the Iron Curtain. North versus South. East versus West, and I am told that some have even spoken in terms of 'Old Europe' versus 'new.' ''
 The last was a reference to a characterization Mr. Rumsfeld made in January 2003 to contrast Germany and France, which objected to the United States plan to invade Iraq, with neighboring supporters, not all of which are NATO members. 
 Reviewing NATO's success in standing up to the Soviet threat, ''it seems clear that totalitarianism was defeated as much by ideas the West championed then and now as by ICBMs, tanks and warships that the West deployed,'' Mr. Gates said. The alliance's most effective weapon, he said, was a ''shared belief in political and economic freedom, religious toleration, human rights, representative government and the rule of law.''
 ''These values kept our side united, and inspired those on the other side,'' he added.
 Shifting to current threats and challenges, he called on NATO members to support a comprehensive strategy to stabilize Afghanistan, ''combining a muscular military effort with effective support for governance, economic development and counternarcotics.''
 He also urged NATO allies to increase their military spending to meet the benchmark of 2 percent of gross domestic product set by the alliance; only 6 of NATO's 26 members fulfill that standard.
 Mr. Gates briefly turned to the war in Iraq, to echo President Bush's insistence that the United States and its partners there must prevail. If chaos tears Iraq apart, Mr. Gates warned, ''every member of this alliance will feel the consequences'' of regional turmoil and terrorism.
 He acknowledged the damage done to America's global standing by its conduct in the campaign against terrorism, particularly in holding detainees without due process at the United States naval base in Cuba.
 ''There is no question in my mind that Guantanamo and some of the abuses that have taken place in Iraq have negatively impacted the reputation of the United States,'' Mr. Gates said. ''It is also true, though, that there are real terrorists at Guantanamo.''
 Repeating comments from a number of American officials, Mr. Gates said most members of the Bush administration would like to close the detention center, and he pledged that tribunals for detainees would be conducted in a legitimate and transparent manner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, said of President Vladimir V. Putin, ''Old spies have a habit of blunt speaking.'' Mr. Putin's speech on Saturday also drew a sharp response from Senator John McCain, right. (Photo by Joerg Koch/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ESPIONAGE (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); TERRORISM (50%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); SERGEI IVANOV (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Robert M (Sec) Gates; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Sergei B (Min) Ivanov; Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%) Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



272 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-13Six-Party Talks Stumble Over North Korea DemandsNegotiations over a step-by-step deal that the Bush administration hopes will lead North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program appeared near collapse over North Korea's demands for huge shipments of fuel oil and electricity. A1U.S. Says Arms Link Iran to IraqAfter weeks of internal debate, senior United States military officials put on the table their first public evidence for the contentious assertion that Iran supplies Shiite extremist groups in Iraq with some of the most lethal weapons in the war, and said those weapons had been used to kill more than 170 Americans in the past three years. A1 American troops locked down a large industrialized area of eastern Baghdad while Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki vowed to speed the deployment of Iraqi forces throughout the war-ravaged capital without indicating how he would do it. A12 Gates Counters Putin's WordsDefense Secretary Robert M. Gates, disputing a lengthy critique of American power by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, said at a European security conference in Munich, ''One cold war was quite enough.'' A6 President Putin arrived in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, for a visit intended to expand trade and military links between the two nations, among the world's largest oil producers. A8 Iran Delays Its 'Good News'President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran vowed in a speech that Iran would not stop its nuclear program despite a United Nations deadline next week. 
He did not make a promised announcement about ''good news'' in nuclear progress, raising speculation that domestic political pressure and technological glitches may have caused delays. A8Low Turnout Undercuts VotePortugal voted decisively in a referendum to liberalize its restrictive abortion law, but the result is not considered valid because of low voter turnout. Still, Prime Minister Jose Socrates, a Socialist who supported the liberalization, declared victory and said he would ask Parliament, where his party enjoys a comfortable majority, to change the law. A3 NATIONAL A14-19Cheney Testimony Could Carry High RiskAs the defense phase of the perjury trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr. begins, Vice President Dick Cheney is expected to make a historic appearance on the witness stand. It is an act of loyalty that carries considerable risk for Mr. Cheney who has in recent months suffered a series of major political and policy setbacks. A16 Australian Denounces ObamaPrime Minister John Howard of Australia, a close ally of the White House, denounced Barack Obama's proposal to withdraw American combat troops in Iraq by March 31, 2008. A18Notepad Versus RecordingsMore than 500 police departments in all 50 states make electronic recordings of at least some interrogations, often videotaping them. At the F.B.I., by contrast, an agent cannot turn on a tape recorder without first getting a supervisor's permission. A14 Scientist's Contradicting Views Marcus R. Ross is a paleontologist and also a ''young earth creationist'' who believes that the Bible is a literal account of the creation of the universe. For him, the methods of paleontology are one ''paradigm'' for studying the past, and Scripture is another. His case raises thorny philosophical and practical questions for some. A1Flaws in Coast Guard DealThe Coast Guard's $24 billion ship and plane building deal with two of the nation's biggest military contractors is fundamentally flawed, an independent assessment commissioned by the Coast Guard has concluded. A16 From Horse Country to HarvardDecades after coming of age as the only girl in a privileged, tradition-bound family in Virginia horse country, Drew Gilpin Faust officially became the first woman chosen to lead Harvard University, which was founded in 1636. A18 SPORTSMONDAY D1-7 Soccer, Sans FansThe Artemio Franchi Stadium in Florence, Italy, hosted one of four Italian Serie A games in which fans were not permitted inside the stadium because of newly enforced security measures after the death last week of a police officer in Sicily during a soccer riot. D3NEW YORK/REGION B1-6Buried Region Copes One Shovelful at a TimeLife in Oswego County, a rustic string of towns and villages on the eastern rim of Lake Ontario, took on an icy absurdity last week under the weight of 5 to 10 feet of snow that fell over eight days. In one town, Redfield, the National Weather Service reported an unofficial total of 11 feet 8 inches. A1 Trash Hauling Rates StudiedThe city's Economic Development Corporation wants to hire a consultant to study whether the mob has been so thoroughly routed from the garbage-hauling business in New York City that the corporation can eliminate the decades-old caps on the rates haulers can charge commercial establishments. B1Church Closings ProtestedA score of parishioners began a protest vigil inside a 120-year-old Roman Catholic church in East Harlem and vowed to stay until the Archdiocese of New York reverses its decision to close the parish as part of a broad reorganization. B1Therapy for Gay Desires?People across the country who are conflicted about their sexuality are making attempts to eliminate their gay desires through therapy or religious ministries. Efforts by religious conservatives to remedy homosexuality has received renewed attention with news that the Rev. Ted Haggard had been declared ''completely heterosexual'' after three weeks of intense therapy. B1ARTS E1-12Dixie Chicks Top GrammysAfter death threats, boycotts and a cold shoulder from the country music establishment, the Dixie Chicks had a big night at the 49th annual Grammy Awards, capturing honors in five of the categories. The Red Hot Chili Peppers and Mary J. Blige also received multiple awards E1OBITUARIES B7 Edmund C. ArnoldA journalist who in the 1950s altered the rigid layouts then common in American newspapers, influencing a generation of newspaper designers, he was 93. B7Michael ShurtleffA leading casting director of Broadway and the author of an influential book about the audition process, he was 86. B7BUSINESS DAY C1-10 New Brand Incites Price WarSyntax-Brillian gained recognition after discounting its Olevia brand L. C. D. television sets by almost half the regular price during the holiday season. The move incited a price war that forced premium brands to lower their prices. C1Questions About CNBCThe connection of Maria S. Bartiromo, a CNBC anchor, to a departed chief executive of Citigroup, Todd S. Thomson, has raised questions about the network's duty to pursue big financial news stories and its loyalty to Ms. Bartiromo. C1 Sale of Paper Stirs IndustryOnce hailed as the white knight of newspapers, Gary B. Pruitt, chief executive of the McClatchy Company, seems to have lost that status after selling the company's largest paper, The Minneapolis Star Tribune -- a sale that is causing struggling papers to shiver again. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A20-21Editorials: Passing the buck on health care; a battle over prisons; Appalachia redux; Adam Cohen on Yeats and the Iraq war.Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.Bridge E9Crossword E4Mtro Diary B2TV Listings E11Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); WITNESSES (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); REFERENDUMS (67%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (88%); DICK CHENEY (76%); ROBERT M GATES (72%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); JOSE SOCRATES (53%); JOHN HOWARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



273 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Passing the Buck on Health Care

 BODY:
President Bush's new budget would extend the administration's warped priorities deep into the realm of federally supported health care programs. The administration long ago sacrificed any meaningful domestic agenda to finance tax cuts for the wealthy and its reckless war in Iraq. The White House's reckless determination to make the tax cuts permanent is now driving it to slash domestic spending in health and other vital programs. 
 Instead of trying to address the underlying problems of escalating health care costs, Mr. Bush's strategy is to cut services or shift more of the bill to states, health care providers and individuals.
In the Medicare program, which covers health care for Americans aged 65 and over, the administration would find most of its savings by slowing the annual increase in reimbursements for services, forcing hospitals and other providers to absorb the burden. Given Medicare's precarious financial straits, the package appears broadly acceptable. 
 The real outrage is that the administration has not proposed comparable reductions in the large overpayments -- roughly 12 percent more per patient -- made to private managed care plans that enroll Medicare beneficiaries. The budget would also phase out Medicare bad-debt payments, forcing hospitals to swallow beneficiaries' unpaid bills. 
 The budget also looks to save money by eliminating inflation indexing so that as incomes rise, so would the number of people required to pay higher premiums. Although this is a sneaky way to raise premiums, it is hard to argue with the notion that better-off beneficiaries should pay more to help rescue a financially strained program. 
 What seems counterproductive is Mr. Bush's plan to lower federal matching funds for Medicaid administration -- forcing the states to find more of their own funds or sacrifice good management and oversight. More worrisome is his plan to cut back on state programs that insure the young. 
 The most shortsighted restrictions would come in the highly acclaimed State Children's Health Insurance Program, which uses federal matching funds to provide coverage for low- and moderate-income children who are not quite poor enough to qualify for Medicaid. The program has been enormously successful in reducing the number of uninsured children. Yet now the administration wants to reduce its matching rate and limit enrollment to children in households earning no more than twice the federal poverty level. That would undercut programs in 16 states that have expanded coverage to children above that level.
 Although the administration's budget would grant the children's program a small $5 billion increase spread over five years, that's less than half, and possibly only a third, of the amount needed just to maintain current enrollments and participation rates. This is too high a price to pay for more tax cuts and Mr. Bush's ill-managed presidency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); MEDICARE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); MEDICAID (58%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%) Medicine and Health; Editorials; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicare; Children and Youth; States (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2007



274 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
STATES TRANSFORM HEALTH CARE -- State governors and legislatures are transforming the nation's health care system by putting affordable health insurance within reach of millions of Americans. [Page A1.]JUST LIKE THE NINETIES? -- This decade's rate of growth has nearly mirrored the first five years of expansion in the 1990s, when corporate profits and the stock market surged. But as workers finally reap some of the spoils of a growing economy, many forecasters worry -- as they did a decade earlier -- that the expansion is running out of steam. 
[C1.]PUTIN DISCUSSES A GAS CARTEL -- In Qatar, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, below, discussed trade, security and the formation of a natural gas cartel on the second leg of a three-day Middle East trip thought to be an effort by Russia to expand its strategic role in the region. [A14.]TROUBLE IN IRAN'S OIL INDUSTRY -- Western political and economic pressure on Iran over its nuclear program has chilled foreign investment so much that it is now squeezing the country's long-fragile energy industry, straining a government that is both burdened by sanctions and trying to prevent unrest at home. [C1.]S.E.C. SEEKS TO LIMIT SUITS -- The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun to take steps on two fronts to protect corporations, one to make it harder for shareholders to prevail in fraud lawsuits against publicly traded companies and their executives and another to protect accounting firms from large damage awards in cases brought by investors and companies. [C1.]QUESTIONS FOR VODAFONE -- A day after Vodafone, the British telecommunications company, agreed to pay $11.1 billion to acquire control of Hutchison Essar, an Indian cellphone operator, analysts began wondering whether the British company's management could impose the proper cost discipline. [C1.]HOME DEPOT MAY SELL UNIT -- Home Depot said it would consider selling off its supply division, and several private equity firms said they were interested in buying the unit, a network of companies that supply professional builders. But can Home Depot manage its revival without its fastest-growing business? [C1.]CLIMATE CHANGE AND PROFITS -- Ceres, a coalition of investors and environmental groups, says that investors have filed 42 resolutions asking how a variety of companies are preparing to adapt to the impact climate change could have on their corporate bottom lines. [C3.]TRIBUNE SELLS HOY NEW YORK -- The Tribune Company sold Hoy New York, its Spanish-language newspaper, to ImpreMedia, a top Spanish-language publisher. [C3.]LAYOFFS AT MTV -- MTV Networks plans to dismiss 250 people, the company's chief executive, Judy McGrath, told employees in an e-mail message. [C7.]NEW AD CAMPAIGN FOR VISA -- Visa USA has a new advertising campaign for its wealthiest customers to raise awareness of its premium-rewards cards and to reposition itself as a contender in the high-end credit marketplace. [C7.]SAFETY AND DRUG-COATED STENTS -- Stents to prop open coronary arteries have produced ''enormous health benefits'' for millions of Americans, but the widespread use of the newer drug-coated version on patients who are sicker than those tested in clinical trials makes it hard to assess safety risks, a leading medical journal reports. [C3.]FOUR SEASONS HOTELS SOLD -- The directors of Four Seasons Hotels endorsed a $3.37 billion all-cash bid to take the company private. The offer came from the chain's founder, a Saudi holding company and Bill Gates's investment firm. [C6.]LET THE BIDDING BEGIN -- Boeing says it has it has tweaked the design of its long-range KC-767 refueling jet in its effort to win a $40 billion Air Force contact to replace 179 planes. But whether it will be enough to hold off Northrup Grumman, which is expected to offer its KC-30, a modified Airbus A330, remains to be seen. [C2.]LOVE IS IN THE AIR -- Workplace love affairs have been studied, but romances forged on business trips remain largely unexamined by psychologists. But Cupid hovers, arrow poised, in hotel lobbies, convention halls, airport bars and on planes, striking unsuspecting hearts at the most unlikely times. [C8.]IN THE NAME OF CHEAPER TRAVEL -- With its roadwarrior.com Web site, Orbitz is trying offer lower-cost travel to individuals or small companies, which spend up to $20,000 a year on travel without the benefit of discounts big companies can negotiate. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.] TOUGH BEING A TRAVEL WRITER -- How does 11 days in the Florida Keys sound? Not so good for this frequent flier. [C9.] ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.DAVID WITTIG, THE FORMER top executive of Westar Energy, was released from prison on bond Monday, pending the appeal of his sentence in a bank fraud case. (AP)PRICELINE.COM, THE ONLINE travel company, said that its quarterly profit rose sharply as Europeans booked more travel on the company's main site there. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Boeing's share price for last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); GOVERNORS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CARTELS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); LITIGATION (70%); DAMAGES (70%); ACCOUNTING (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); LAYOFFS (64%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); MTV NETWORKS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (69%); JUDY MCGRATH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



275 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Deal Would Triple the Size of the Albee Square Mall in Brooklyn and Add a High-Rise

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

 BODY:
The Downtown Brooklyn shopping plaza formerly known as the Albee Square Mall will soon undergo yet another incarnation: It will be razed, rebuilt at triple the size and topped with a high-rise with offices and a thousand apartments, its prospective new owners said yesterday.
 The mall is being sold to a partnership of developers for about $125 million, two people with knowledge of the negotiations said. Today, the city's Industrial Development Agency is expected to approve $3.2 million in tax breaks related to the sale for the new owners, a coalition including a nationally prominent firm, MacFarlane Partners of San Francisco. 
The partnership, Albee Development L.L.C., has drawn up a letter of agreement with the current owner, Thor Equities, said Roxanne Donovan, the new team's spokeswoman. Thor Equities, which bought the mall for $25 million in 2001, would not comment yesterday. 
 Albee Development's plans, Ms. Donovan said, call for nearly half a million square feet of retail space, up from 150,000; about 125,000 square feet of Class A office space; and 1,000 rental apartments, 20 percent of which would be for tenants of moderate income. 
 The size of the project was made possible by the rezoning of much of Downtown Brooklyn in 2004, along with a seemingly endless economic boom. 
 The current mall, the Gallery at Fulton Street, is three stories high. There is no specific height planned for the tower, but the city's deputy mayor for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, said that the project would be ''one of the tallest buildings in Downtown Brooklyn.'' 
 The project, to be known as the Center at Albee Square, would have to go through several layers of government approval, but the new zoning allows more than 1 million square feet of development on the site. The pending sale was reported in Crain's New York Business last week. The city owns the land under the mall, and Mr. Doctoroff said a tentative deal calls for the new owners to pay $28 million in rent over the next four years.
 When the Albee Square Mall opened in 1980 at a pivotal spot on the Fulton Street pedestrian plaza, where much of black Brooklyn and Queens shops, it became a fashion destination for the young. 
 In a 1988 paean to the place called ''Albee Square Mall,'' the comic rapper Biz Markie described a typical jaunt:
 I step in the place and shop around for a while
 Buy some jewelry for Treny and Ali, and after that I'll 
 Go take a stroll inside of Gibb's Pups 
 Then buy some fresh silks, Bally's too.
 But the mall was also beset with problems, including rent strikes by store owners and endless complaints about security and maintenance. In 1990, Forest City Ratner bought the mall, rechristened it the Gallery at MetroTech, promised to bring it upscale, then seemed to lose interest. 
 In 2001, Joseph L. Sitt of Thor Equities bought the mall, named it the Gallery at Fulton Street and promised to remake it in the image of a palatial Italian villa with granite floors, national retailers like the Gap and tuxedoed greeters.
 He got as far as spiffing up the first floor and putting a new awning on the outside. The basement level is a mostly vacant bunker. In place of a greeter in a tuxedo stands a man wearing a sandwich sign over his parka, advertising a sale at a leather coat store inside. 
 However humble, the mall is home to dozens of merchants, some of whom were upset over the new plans. 
 Eric Waltower, owner of Cunora Accessories, said he was selling jewelry from a cart on a nearby sidewalk two years ago when he was tempted inside. He sunk $30,000 into the space, which is now filled with necklaces, handbags and shiny belts.
 ''If they'd told me at the first meeting that they were looking to get rid of the place,'' he said, ''I'd have stayed out on Bridge Street.''
 One of his customers, Janae Woodbury, 14, of Bushwick, said she would be sad to see the mall torn down. She brightened when she learned that a bigger mall was planned.
 ''That would be better,'' she said. ''They need more stores.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Gallery at Fulton Street at 1 De Kalb Avenue in Brooklyn will be torn down to make way for a commercial and apartment complex. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); APPROVALS (76%) Retail Stores and Trade; Albee Square Mall (NYC); Housing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Shopping Centers

ORGANIZATION: Albee Development LLC

PERSON: Andy Newman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



276 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-14Tentative Agreement In North Korea TalksThe United States and four other nations reached a tentative agreement to provide North Korea with roughly $400 million in fuel oil and aid in return for North Korea's agreement to disable its nuclear facilities and allow nuclear inspectors back into the country, American officials said. A1Explosions in Baghdad Kill 67Four back-to-back explosions at two markets in central Baghdad killed at least 67 people and wounded 155, charring drivers in their cars, shredding stores and setting ablaze a building full of clothing stores that burned for more than six hours, witnesses and officials said. A9Iran Denies Arming Iraqi MilitiaPresident Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran dismissed accusations that his country was arming Shiite militants in Iraq, saying Iran was opposed to ''any kind of conflict'' there, in a television interview. He rejected the charges, saying Americans were trying to find a scapegoat for problems in Iraq. 
A10European negotiators, yielding to pressure from the United States, are considering a resolution to widen a ban on financial transactions with Iran and the export of materials and technology that Iran could use to develop nuclear weapons. A10Martial Law Declared in GuineaGuinea's embattled president declared martial law, hoping to stop a wave of violent street demonstrations and a general strike that have crippled the country and brought it to the brink of insurrection. A8Germany Frees Terrorist LeaderA German court ordered the release of Brigitte Mohnhaupt, a leader of the terrorist Red Army Faction, who has been imprisoned for 24 years for kidnappings and murders in the 1970s. A3NATIONAL A15-21States and White House At Odds Over InsuranceIn the absence of federal action, governors and state legislators around the country are transforming the nation's health care system, but appear to be on a collision course with the Bush administration, whose latest budget proposals create a huge potential obstacle to their efforts to expand coverage. A1At Least 5 Dead in ShootingA gunman entered a shopping mall in Salt Lake City and began randomly shooting, killing at least five people and wounding others before the police fatally shot him, the authorities said. A16Libby Is Backed by ReportersLawyers for I. Lewis Libby Jr. opened their case with a parade of prominent Washington reporters who testified that Mr. Libby never mentioned the identity of a Central Intelligence Agency operative when they interviewed him during the period the officer's identity was leaked to the press. A15Debates Arise Over Wind FarmsDisputes over the aesthetics, economics and environmental impact of wind farms have arisen in Vermont, Massachusetts, North Carolina and Virginia, where a proposed project put forth eight years ago has divided the residents of Highland County, one of the least populated counties east of the Mississippi. A21Dolphins May Get Call to ServeDozens of dolphins and sea lions trained to detect and apprehend waterborne attackers may be sent to patrol a military base in Washington State, the Navy announced. In a notice published in this week's Federal Register, the Navy said it needed to bolster security at Naval Base Kitsap-Bangor, on Puget Sound close to Seattle. A21 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8Doubts Arise in Accounts Of a Ground-Zero SymbolCesar A. Borja, a New York police officer who died of lung disease last month, had been held up as a symbol of the medical crisis affecting the emergency personnel who had labored on the smoking remains of the World Trade Center. But very few of the most dramatic aspects of Officer Borja's story appear to be fully accurate. A1Hospitals Plan to Fight CutsHospitals and a health care workers' union in New York plan to mount an advertising campaign to defeat spending cuts proposed by President Bush -- their first attempt to affect national policy with a strategy they have used statewide. They also plan to run ads attacking Governor Spitzer's proposed cuts. B1Freedom Tower Wins an AllyGovernor Spitzer is expected to abandon his criticism of the 1,776-foot Freedom Tower at ground zero and approve construction now that tenants are leasing space in the newly completed 7 World Trade Center and vacancy rates are falling in Lower Manhattan. B1BUSINESS DAY C1-12An Energy Strain in IranWestern political and economic pressure on Iran over its nuclear program has chilled foreign investment to the extent that it is squeezing the country's long-fragile energy industry, adding strains to a government that is burdened by sanctions and yet wants to prevent unrest at home. C1Home Depot May Shed a UnitHome Depot said it would consider selling off its supply division, a network of companies that provides pipes, concrete and lumber to professional builders. C1Business Digest C2OBITUARIES B7Eddie FeignerA pitcher who for 60 years barnstormed the globe with his four-man softball team, hurling 100-mile-an-hour pitches that struck out Willie Mays and 121,516 other batters, he was 81. B7EDITORIAL A22-23Editorials: Iran and the nameless briefers; unmatched destruction; doctors who fail their patients; the courage of others' convictions.Columns: Stacy Schiff, Nicholas D. Kristof.Crossword E6TV Listings E13Weather A20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); TERRORISM (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); RIOTS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); WITNESSES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); WIND POWER PLANTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (61%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (61%); WIND ENERGY (60%); MURDER (56%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); GERMANY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



277 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: West Adds to Strains on Iran's Lifeline

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

 BODY:
Western political and economic pressure on Iran over its nuclear program has chilled foreign investment to the extent that it is now squeezing the country's long-fragile energy industry, adding strains to a government that is burdened by sanctions and wary of unrest at home.
 The world's fourth-largest oil exporter, Iran sits on the second-largest oil and gas reserves. But it has struggled in recent years to keep its oil production, currently running at about four million barrels a day, from falling.
Some analysts say that if this acute imbalance between stagnant production and rising demand at home continues unchecked, Iran will have no oil left over to export within a decade. Its oil exports, totaling $47 billion last year, account for half the government's revenue.
 ''They have a perfect storm of problems feeding into each other,'' said Robert Murphy, an analyst at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. He estimated that Iran might have no more oil to export by around 2015 if it did not rein in runaway consumption and reverse the long-term decline in its oil production. 
 ''The domestic energy situation is as big as the international issue, and feeds into it in a very significant way,'' he said.
 To curb demand, which has been driven in part by subsidies that keep the domestic pump price at a mere 35 cents a gallon, the government plans to begin rationing gasoline in March, a measure so unpopular, and potentially explosive, that rationing plans have been put off several times in the past.
 Iran's energy problem is in many ways at the heart of the nuclear controversy as well. Iran's leadership says it wants to develop nuclear power generation to free its petroleum resources for domestic use or for exports. The United States and other Western countries say Iran is using the program as a front for building weapons. At a time of relatively high prices, oil is clearly providing Iran's government with enormous strength -- but also with an Achilles' heel. 
 In December, the United Nations Security Council voted unanimously to impose limited economic sanctions on Iran until it halts its nuclear program. So far, American and European officials say they are not seeking to cut off Iran's oil exports, because that would disrupt global markets and raise prices for Western consumers. 
 Still, the pressure on Western energy companies not to deal with Iran may ultimately speed that outcome. Iran currently exports about 2.5 million barrels a day.
 In recent weeks, senior American officials warned several European oil companies that if they invested in new energy projects, they risked financial sanctions in the United States, according to a European energy executive who spoke on the condition that he not be identified because of the delicate nature of his company's relations with Iran.
 Foreign investors, who have helped promote Iran's oil development, have been scarce since the 1979 revolution, and the country's oil industry has now suffered decades of economic, political and technical problems. Iran has signed no firm oil or gas contracts with foreign investors since June 2005, when Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was elected president and began flaunting the country's nuclear ambitions and renewing tensions with the West. 
 At home, meanwhile, Iran has had to appease a population historically prone to unrest. It spends about $20 billion each year, or 15 percent of its economic output, to keep consumer prices low for gasoline, natural gas, electricity and other energy products, according to estimates from the International Monetary Fund and others. Those subsidies have prompted double-digit growth in consumption in this country of 70 million people.
 Iran holds 11 percent of global oil reserves, second only to Saudi Arabia. But each year, Iran has to find ways to make up for natural declines in production from existing wells, which in past years has dipped by 200,000 to 500,000 barrels a day.
 It has managed to hold its own, but just barely. Moreover, Iran's refining capacity lags far behind its domestic needs, so the country is forced to import 40 percent of its gasoline. 
 Because of delays in developing new fields, like Yadavaran, Azadegan and others, Iran has scaled back its targets; it now plans to increase oil production to 4.5 million barrels by 2010, down from 5 million barrels. But even that might prove challenging, according to analysts who cite the figures. 
 Iranian production is now about 3.9 million barrels. It peaked at more than 6 million barrels a day in the mid-1970s, but plummeted to 1.5 million barrels just after the 1979 revolution. During the eight-year war against Iraq that followed, Iran's oil infrastructure lining the Persian Gulf was a frequent target. 
 Iran currently uses 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, triple its consumption in 1980, and must import about 170,000 barrels a day of gasoline, which last year cost the government more than $4 billion. 
 Some Iranian fields are in dire need of foreign technical expertise to help reverse their natural decline rates, estimated at 8 to 10 percent a year. Modern methods of enhanced oil recovery, which involve reinjecting natural gas to flush out more oil from the fields, can greatly increase production rates but are both costly and difficult to perform without foreign assistance. 
 ''Iran needs to invest more than it does,'' said Manouchehr Takin, an Iranian energy analyst at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. ''It needs foreign companies to bring expertise, capital and technology.'' 
 But oil companies complain that the rewards are limited. Under Iran's stringent buyback contracts, oil companies basically operate as contractors for the government for a limited time. They are not allowed to book the reserves as their own and gain little in extra profits when energy prices go up.
 Iran's energy officials have already indicated they would sweeten buyback contracts. At a meeting held at a Hilton hotel in Vienna this month, they unveiled a new licensing round for 17 onshore and offshore exploration blocks. The conference was attended by dozens of European, Chinese and Russian oil executives.
 For Gholam Hossein Nozari, the managing director of Iran's national oil company, continued interest from Europe and Asia is ''a sure sign companies do not cower to U.S. pressure,'' according to Iran's official news agency, IRNA. 
 Fereidun Fesharaki, an energy adviser to the Iranian government before the revolution, said, ''For all its faults, the Islamic Republic is very flexible.'' 
 Not all countries or international companies have bowed to American pressure. India has rebuffed Washington's efforts to cut off gasoline exports to Iran. New Delhi has also rejected American requests to cancel a planned pipeline project that would take Iranian natural gas through Pakistan to India.
 But recent conversations with European energy executives and consultants, who spoke anonymously to protect their relations with Iran, suggest there is a new wave of concern about starting projects in the country. Even Chinese companies, which Iran is trying to lure with big oil and gas deals, seem to be acting with caution.
 Oil companies, including Royal Dutch Shell, Total of France, Eni of Italy and Repsol YPF of Spain, are playing for time in the hope that the political situation may somehow improve, energy analysts said.
 Shell and Repsol announced last month a preliminary deal for South Pars, the world's largest natural gas field. But the project, estimated at $10 billion, has been delayed for more than a year. A final investment decision is not due until at least the end of 2007. 
 Askedabout the project at a news conference this month, Jeroen van der Veer, the chief executive of Shell, expressed some embarrassment, saying, ''We have a dilemma.'' Iran's oil and gas reserves are too big to ignore, he said, but ''we have all the short-term political concerns, as you can see.'' 
 Last year, Inpex, a Japanese oil company, agreed to sharply cut its stake in a $2 billion project to develop the Azadegan field, in the southwestern province of Khuzestan, near Iraq. Inpex cut its stake to 10 percent from 75 percent after problems with land mines left over from the Iran-Iraq war delayed development. But some analysts said the decision reflected Japan's displeasure at Iran's nuclear stance. Japan accounts for 20 percent of all Iranian oil exports.
 ''Oil companies are simply assessing risk, including what some see as the real risk of a military strike against Iran,'' said Cliff Kupchan, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm, and a former senior State Department official. ''Some are deciding it's not worth it.''
 The United States is pressing Europeans to trim their government-backed loan guarantees, which amounted to $18 billion in 2005. European countries have recently said they would not issue guarantees for companies that the United Nations lists as tied to Iran's nuclear or missile programs. But Washington is calling on Europe to make sure it is not dealing with front companies, possibly in the energy field. 
 Since opening up their energy sector to foreigners in the 1990s, Iran's clerical leaders have sought to turn their energy riches into political alliances. In the mid-1990s, they tried to persuade an American company, Conoco (now ConocoPhillips), to develop an oil field in a strategic bid to thaw relations with the United States; when that failed, after President Bill Clinton banned American investments in Iran, Iran turned to Europe and Japan. More recently, Iranian leaders have set their sights on China and Russia.
 But while China's three main state-owned oil companies have been eager to sign preliminary agreements with Iran in recent years, drawing criticism from the United States, analysts say few projects have actually gotten off the ground.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lights were ablaze in an affluent neighborhood of Tehran last April. (Photo by Newsha Tavakolian/Polaris)(pg. C1)
Rush hour in Tehran. Runaway demand for subsidized gasoline has led to plans by the Iranian government to begin rationing in March. (Photo by Newsha Tavakolian/Polaris)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Is Iran Facing an Energy Revolution?''With domestic consumption on the rise, Iran is struggling to maintain its current level of oil production. As a result, exports could dry up within a decade, analysts say, unless its leaders can reverse the projected trends.Graph tracks Iran Oil Production And Consumption since 1970.(Sources by Energy Information Administration
 PFC Energy [forecasts])(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); TRENDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Atomic Energy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Politics and Government; Rationing and Allocation of Resources; Production; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Foreign Investments

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: Jad Mouawad; Steven R Weisman; Nazila Fathi

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (90%) Iran; Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



278 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; GOLFO DE SANTA CLARA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Vaquita Porpoise, and a Way of Life, Face Extinction

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: GOLFO DE SANTA CLARA, Mexico 

 BODY:
The fishermen gathered in the early evening light where the desert meets the blue gulf to talk over the way they had always lived off the sea and the fate of a small, endangered porpoise few of them had ever seen.
 Environmentalists from the United States and Mexico had begged the fishermen to stop using the gill nets that are killing off La Vaquita, or the little cow, a porpoise that now has the dubious distinction of being one of the most endangered marine mammals in the world. 
Only about 400 of them survive in the waters at the tip of the Gulf of California where the Colorado River once poured into the sea, environmentalists say, and the only way to save them is to ban commercial fishing with nets in about 1,545 square miles to a line cutting across the gulf about 70 miles south of the mouth of the river. 
 Environmentalists have put forward proposals to pay the fishermen not to fish and to develop tourism as an alternative source of income. But the men with rope-hardened hands and weathered faces are skeptical. 
 The desert here is a vast expanse of beige dunes and craggy rocks that bears nothing but scrub. The sea has always been the only source of food and money. 
 ''They want us to stop fishing,'' said Andres Gonzalez, a 43-year-old fisherman. ''They want to take care of the animals here, but they are not taking care of the people.''
 Jose Luis Carillo, 51, a longtime fisherman, allowed as how he might be willing to try his hand at running a restaurant or hotel, but it would be hard. For four decades he has known nothing but a fisherman's life. 
 ''There is nothing else to do here except fish,'' he said, squinting at the gulf, the desert landscape, the fishing boats along the shore, their flags fluttering. ''There are no factories. There are no other alternatives.''
 Scientists trying to save the vaquita from extinction say they have run out of alternatives as well. The Mexican government set up a reserve in 1993 to protect the porpoises, which become entangled in fishing nets and drown. But it is too small, with fishing banned in only about 637 square miles. 
 Animals roam outside the protected area and their numbers continue to decline, biologists say. The year the reserve was created, for example, gill nets set for fish and shrimp killed about 39 vaquitas in just one of the three main fishing ports in the upper gulf, researchers say. 
 ''There is a high risk that the species will disappear in a few years,'' Omar Vidal, a biologist and the director of the World Wildlife Fund in Mexico, said. ''We have to act immediately.''
 Some scientists and not a few fishermen speculate that the decline of the porpoise might be linked to the damming and diversion of the Colorado River in the United States. The river once pumped tons of nutrients and fresh water into the porpoise's habitat, providing food for the bottom of a rich food chain.
 Fishermen say their catches of shrimp and several species of fish have steadily declined over the years as the river dwindled from a roaring flow of fresh water to a trickle of runoff from farms upstream. 
 ''If you are going to turn off a river -- 15 million acre-feet of water a day -- and alter this habitat, I would be very surprised if it doesn't have an affect on the vaquita,'' said Karl W. Flessa, a geologist at the University of Arizona in Tucson.
 But biologists say studies of the carcasses of the vaquita porpoises show no signs of malnourishment, but plenty of scars from fishing nets. 
 The advocates of buying out the fishermen note that the human population at the gulf's tip is quite small, about 50,000 people in three towns, including maybe 10,000 fishermen. 
 The solution, they say, is to ban fishing with nets in the upper gulf and establish a $50 million trust fund and use the earnings to pay fishermen a total of about $4 million a year, not to fish but to pursue other trades. The program would last at least seven years, until the porpoise population could recover. 
 Mr. Vidal, of the World Wildlife Fund, said Mexican environmental and fishery officials have expressed interest in the idea. It also has the support of National Resource Defense Council, Conservation International and Pronatura in Mexico.
 The buyout is a last resort. Lorenzo Rojas, a biologist with the National Ecology Institute who studies the vaquita, said his surveys had shown that the porpoise population is so thin that if more than one died each year in fishing nets the species would be doomed. Each female porpoise has only one calf every two years. 
 ''The advantage of the buyout is it could buy time,'' Mr. Rojas said. ''We don't want to save the vaquita and drive fishing families to hunger.''
 In Santa Clara, some people already have turned to tourism to make a living. The town has a few small hotels and restaurants and a large park on the shore for recreational vehicles from the United States. Tourists rent four-wheel motorbikes and tear up and down the dunes. One fishing cooperative is trying to start a business to rent jet skis and motorcycles. 
 But the mainstay of the town's economy is still fish, which, Mr. Vidal and other biologists note, have in any case been declining with the vaquita for years. Whether the declines stem from overfishing or the damming of the Colorado River or both, the fishermen will have to find other employment eventually, environmentalists argue. Why not now?
 Indeed, some fishermen have noted that they are already having a harder time making a profit, and say they would welcome another way to make a living. But it would be hard to change a way of life that has lasted generations, and renting motor scooters to Americans or running dance halls is simply not in their blood, many fishermen here say. 
 ''What will happen?'' said Antonio Villegas, whose six brothers and four sons fish for a living. ''What worries me is what are we all going to do? We live off fish. We want to keep fishing. We don't know anything else.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Golfo de Santa Clara Journal article on Tuesday, about the possibility that commercial fishing may be endangering the vaquita porpoise, which lives in the Gulf of California near the mouth of the Colorado River, rendered incorrectly part of a quotation from Karl W. Flessa, a geologist at the University of Arizona, who said the damming and diversion of the river may also be responsible for the porpoise's decline. He said the reduction in the river flow was 15 million acre-feet of water a year -- not a day.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mexican government set up a reserve in 1993 to protect the vaquita porpoises, which become entangled in fishing nets and drown. But the area is too small, with fishing banned in only about 637 square miles. (Photo by Omar Vidal/World Wildlife Fund)
 Fishermen in Golfo de Santa Clara say their catches of shrimp and fish have steadily declined over the years. (Photo by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting protected area. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (91%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SHELLFISH FISHING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); RIVERS (75%); DESERTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FISHING LAW (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (62%); TOURISM (54%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Endangered and Extinct Species; Dolphins and Porpoises; Fishing, Commercial; Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (59%)

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico; Golfo de Santa Clara (Mex); Gulf of California; Colorado River

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



279 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: European Officials Agree to Widen Economic Sanctions Against Iran Over Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
European negotiators, yielding to pressure from the United States, have agreed to widen a ban on financial transactions with Iran and the export of materials and technology that Iran could use to develop nuclear weapons.
 European officials said a resolution embodying the wider ban was negotiated over the last week and should go far toward satisfying the Bush administration, which has been pressing European governments for firmer action against Iranian individuals and companies as part of a campaign to isolate the Tehran government because of its suspected nuclear arms program.
''This is a very positive initiative because it takes the European Union beyond where they were until recently,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs. ''It's not everything we would like to see happen. But the trajectory is good and the momentum is good, so we think this is a positive event.'' 
 A text of the resolution, released Monday evening by officials of the European Union, calls for steps to carry out a United Nations Security Council resolution adopted in December. Europeans have been slow to follow through, saying governments do not have the legal tools to act against Iranian companies.
 Two European officials said that in some respects the draft complies with American wishes for a broad move against Iran, but in other respects it could fall short. If the European Union adopts the resolution, European governments will have to enact laws individually to carry it out.
 ''The point is that it takes time for the Europeans to work out exactly where the center of gravity is so they can do something like this,'' said a European official, asking not to be identified because of the delicate nature of the discussions. ''It's not as if the European Union can snap its fingers and get it done right away.''
 In a separate development, two top diplomats from the European Union said in Brussels that their talks in Tehran over the weekend left them encouraged that negotiations might resume over Iran's nuclear program.
 There was no sign, however, that Iran would be willing to suspend its enrichment of uranium, which the West has insisted is a precondition for a resumption of talks.
 ''We got the impression that in Iran there's a new ambition to return to the negotiating table,'' said the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who has taken the lead for the European Union because Germany serves as its current president.
 Both Mr. Steinmeier and Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, spoke in Brussels a day after returning from Tehran, where they had held talks with Ali Larijani, the top Iranian national security official. 
 The Security Council resolution of Dec. 23 listed a dozen individuals and several Iranian corporations as effectively off-limits to transactions with European banks and European companies, including those that might get government-backed guarantees for loans to facilitate transactions with Iran.
 Responding to the urgings of the Bush administration, the draft would seek to freeze funds of those entities and also of others that might later be designated as engaging in ''sensitive'' nuclear or weapons activities.
 The draft would also call for a ban on visas for individuals identified as involved in Iran's nuclear programs, except for limited relief purposes. The draft would encompass anything ''that could contribute to'' uranium enrichment or processing of nuclear fuel that could be used for a nuclear weapon.
 The draft has a bit of an escape clause, saying it does not apply to payments under contracts that were concluded or that were even discussed before Dec. 23, the date of the Security Council resolution. 
 It calls on European countries ''in accordance with their national legislation'' to take ''the necessary measures'' to prevent teaching or training of Iranians in their countries of any studies that might contribute to nuclear proliferation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (57%); JAVIER SOLANA (56%); FRANK-WALTER STEINMEIER (50%) Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); IRAN (90%); GERMANY (90%) Iran; Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



280 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 484 words

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (USA) 131ST WESTMINSTER KENNEL CLUB DOG SHOW -- How do I look? More than 2,600 dogs representing 165 recognized breeds (including Guemart Limited Edition, above, a Yorkshire terrier from Mexico City) compete for best in show in this, the second-longest continuously held sporting event in the United States. (The first is the Kentucky Derby.) 
Day 2 of the competition, broadcast from Madison Square Garden, includes the judging of the sporting, hound and herding breeds, with the top dog chosen at the end of the evening. Lester Holt, David Frei and Dr. Debbye Turner are commentators. Dr. Robert A. Indeglia, a cardiac surgeon and longtime participant in the world of purebred dogs, will judge the heart-stopping best-in-show category.8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL -- First stop on the way to the final 24: Hollywood. 8 P.M. (13) THE LAST GREAT APE -- Like chimpanzees, bonobos are among humans' closest relatives. But unlike chimps, which can be violent, bonobos (left) are far more peaceful and resolve conflicts in a rather unusual way: by having sex. And like humans, they have sex not simply to procreate but because they enjoy it -- a tendency that has fascinated scientists and led them to question not only our origins but also the roots of human nature. This ''Nova'' documentary travels deep into the Congo with veteran bonobo researchers, who were forced to abandon their studies and evacuate the country in 1997 when fighting broke out, and who worry about the effects of civil war and the bush meat industry on this ape population.9 P.M. (Fox) HOUSE -- House (Hugh Laurie) determines that a teenage girl injured in a car crash is insensitive to pain. He also determines that he's not insensitive to the fact that Cuddy is dating someone she met online.9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: CRIMINAL INTENT -- Hip-hop cop: when a young rap artist (Fab Five Freddy, in a guest role) is gunned down after leaving a radio station that has just given the premiere of his latest song, Detectives Logan and Wheeler question the only witness to the crime: Harry Williams (Sticky Fingaz), an undercover officer specializing in rap-world crime. But when Williams starts helping out, people start dying.9 P.M. (13) NEWS WAR: SECRETS, SOURCES AND SPIN -- In this four-part ''Frontline'' special, Lowell Bergman uses more than 80 interviews with key figures in the print, broadcast and electronic media as well as behind-the-scenes access to news organizations to trace the recent history of American journalism -- from the Nixon administration's attacks on the media and the post-Watergate popularity of the press to new obstacles presented by the war on terror and changing economics in the media business. First up: an examination of the Bush administration (above) and the press, the use of anonymous sources in reporting and the unintended consequences of the Valerie Plame investigation. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Mary Altaffer/Associated Press)
(Photo by Martyn Colbeck/PBS)
 (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (96%); PRIMATES (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (85%); RAP MUSIC (85%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); CARDIOLOGY (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); WILDLIFE (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); JOURNALISM (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); SHOOTINGS (66%); EYEWITNESSES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGH LAURIE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



281 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: In a Corner of Virginia's 'Switzerland,' a Division Over a Planned Wind Farm

BYLINE: By PAMELA J. PODGER

DATELINE: MONTEREY, Va. 

 BODY:
Wes Maupin says he will move this spring to a 20-acre spread here in remote Highland County, a pastoral place where sheep outnumber people and where little has changed since his boyhood, when he fished the county's mountain streams with his father.
 Mr. Maupin, a 52-year-old former corrections worker, does have one misgiving, though. Like many others in Highland, known for its rustic heights as Virginia's Switzerland, he finds no joy in the prospect that these blustery Allegheny ridges could soon become home to the state's first wind farm: 19 wind turbines, each taller than the Statue of Liberty, its pedestal included. 
 ''Any wind farm,'' Mr. Maupin said, ''would surely change the character of this county forever.''
 Much as disputes over the aesthetics, economics and environmental impact of wind farms have arisen in Vermont, Massachusetts, North Carolina and elsewhere, the proposed project here, first put forth eight years ago, has divided the 2,500 residents of Highland County, one of the least populated counties east of the Mississippi. Where some see unwelcome industrialization of the wilderness, others see green energy and an estimated $200,000 a year in tax revenue for the financially needy county. 
 Though the farm would sit on only 50 acres of the county's 416 square miles, many fear it would be just the vanguard of similar local projects providing electricity for the regional grid.
 ''People around the state feel Highland should be sacrificed because not too many people live here,'' said Sandy Bratton, 64, a fourth-generation landowner. ''They view us as docile, uneducated people.''
 But at Grady's Barber Shop here in Monterey, the county seat, 35 miles west of Staunton, Roy Waggoner said he supported the $60 million project.
 ''One way to clean up the environment is with the wind turbines; it's green energy,'' said Mr. Waggoner, 57, a sheep rancher. ''I don't want to see them on every inch of land, but that ridge is very secluded.'' 
 To be sure, the wind farm still faces hurdles. Though local officials have approved it, opponents have sued them in an effort to overturn their decision. Federal and state agencies oppose the project until sufficient bat, bird and other environmental studies are done. Further, a state hearing examiner is not expected to decide until March whether to recommend that the Virginia Corporation Commission issue a permit allowing the developer, Highland New Wind Development, to build and operate the turbines.
 The man behind the project is Henry McBride, retired poultry farmer and founder of Highland New Wind. Mr. McBride intends to build the windmills on a part of his 4,000-acre ranch here not far from the West Virginia state line. He will sell electricity directly to a utility, a city, an energy cooperative or another power purchaser, said a family spokesman, Frank Maisano, a wind energy lobbyist in Washington. The project would generate 39 megawatts, enough for more than 15,000 homes, Mr. Maisano said.
 Highland County has long worked to promote ecotourism; the number of lodgings that cater to birders, hikers and other visitors has tripled in the last decade. But since the wind farm was proposed, queries from people thinking of moving here have dropped to about 50 a year from 325, said Carolyn Pohowsky, executive director of the Highland County Chamber of Commerce.
 ''It has been a very controversial and polarizing issue,'' Ms. Pohowsky said. ''Because this is a new industry in the state of Virginia, we have no idea of what the outcome will be. You not only have the family farm at risk, and your livelihood at risk, but your heritage at risk.''
 Jerry Rexrode, a county supervisor who voted to approve a conditional use permit for the wind farm in 2005, said most people he had talked to supported the project. David Jessee, manager of an auto parts store, said of the turbines: ''I don't see a thing wrong with them. Economically, the windmills would draw in a little money and maybe bring everyone up around here.''
 But Randy Richardson, president of Highlanders for Responsible Development, a group that opposes the project, said people worried about noise pollution from the turbines' blades and light pollution from the red strobes that would alert aircraft to the 400-foot-tall structures.
 ''We actually had some guy saying these will be similar to the windmills in Holland,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''Well, there is a little bit of difference between a quaint Dutch windmill and a 400-foot turbine.'' 
 Tom Brody and Patti Reum own Bear Mountain Farm and Wilderness Retreat, a lodging and environmental center that attracts birders, stargazers and hikers. It is near the site of the proposed turbines.
 If development proceeded, ''we would have to leave,'' Ms. Reum said. ''If our business doesn't make it, we can't live here.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plan to put 19 wind turbines in an area of Highland County, Va., top, has prompted debate. Roy Waggoner, above left, supports the turbines because they supply clean energy. The owner of a wilderness retreat, Patti Reum, above right, worries that the turbines could put her out of business. (Photographs by Casey Templeton for The New York Times)Map of West Virginia and Virginia highlighting proposed wind turbine sites.: Highland County, population 2,500, is known for its scenery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (68%); APPROVALS (67%); POULTRY (60%) Electric Light and Power; Wind; Turbines; Finances

PERSON: Pamela J Podger

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Highland County (Va)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



282 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: MTV Laying Off 5.5% of Staff; Savings to Go to Newer Ventures

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
MTV Networks plans to dismiss 250 people, or 5.5 percent of its staff of 4,500, the network's chief executive, Judy McGrath, told employees in an e-mail message yesterday. 
 Although Ms. McGrath did not say how much was hoped to be saved from the move, her message said that the money would be used to invest ''in our television and digital future, and to keep winning in this revolutionary environment.'' Viacom, MTV's parent company, is rushing to develop new interactive businesses.
 ''We have to refine our business and organizational models as well,'' her message said. The layoffs are expected to be completed within weeks. Although Ms. McGrath gave no specifics about who would stay and who would go, a person who was briefed on the dismissals said that the company would fine-tune its operations by sharing resources across brands. 
 For example, a single sales staff may sell advertising for all the children's channels, including Nickelodeon, Nick@Nite, Noggin and the N, this person said. The company also may reorganize so that its music networks -- MTV, MTV2, VH1, Country Music Television and Logo -- share employees, said the person who was not authorized to speak and requested anonymity. 
 In her message, Ms. McGrath wrote, ''In the U.S., we will build resources against some new businesses -- our interactive properties and some of our new networks -- and we will make reductions in others.'' 
 Although the staff cuts will be in the United States, Ms. McGrath wrote that the international unit was also ''looking at new ways of working, and exploring new business models for television and online, which will be evaluated over the near term.''
 Viacom's chairman, Sumner M. Redstone, who controls both Viacom and CBS, has been outspoken in his desire to see the stock prices of both companies rise. Shares of Viacom closed at $43.60 on Feb. 16, 2006, shortly after Mr. Redstone broke Viacom and CBS into two separate companies. Yesterday the shares closed at $39.58, down 74 cents. 
 ''MTV's ratings have stabilized since the middle of last year,'' said David Joyce, an analyst at the Miller Tabak & Company investment firm. 
 The company undoubtedly hopes to put cash to work in searching for new Internet businesses, without pushing costs up. 
 Viacom recently insisted that its video clips be taken off the Web site YouTube, saying Google, which owns the site, had not offered a satisfactory deal for use of the clips. ''By pulling the clips off of YouTube, Viacom is hoping to drive viewers to their own sites'' and bolster revenue, Mr. Joyce said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COUNTRY MUSIC (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%) Television; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (84%); MTV NETWORKS INC (59%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Mtv Networks

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (59%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: JUDY MCGRATH (90%); SUMNER REDSTONE (59%) Judy Mcgrath; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



283 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Small and Plastic, With an Upscale Tilt

BYLINE: By MARIA ASPAN

 BODY:
IN a new advertising campaign, Visa USA -- whose name is almost synonymous with convenient credit -- is hoping to remind certain consumers that it can also be a little more exclusive. 
 In the credit card market, Visa has a reputation for being accepted almost everywhere, and its ads inform consumers at every turn that ''Life takes Visa.'' The company is the worldwide leader in electronic payments, touching $17 out of every $100 spent. But now Visa is trying to raise awareness of its premium-rewards cards, and to reposition itself as a contender in the high-end credit marketplace.
In a campaign that began yesterday, Visa Signature will promote a checklist of ''Things to do while you're alive'' in print and online ads, as well on as a revamped Web site. Television is not a part of the campaign. 
 Visa declined to reveal the amount spent on the campaign, which will run through September, but said it was one of the company's three largest marketing campaigns this year. The Signature sub-brand has been around for several years, but it is less well known than the premium cards and rewards programs offered by competitors, especially American Express. The new campaign hopes to raise the profile of Visa's high-end cards with a select audience, without confusing the wider consumer base. 
 ''We have a little more of a challenge than American Express,'' said Susanne D. Lyons, the chief marketing officer for Visa. ''Visa is so well known as a broad-based market, so we had to create a very clear line.''
 That line needs to divide nine million Visa Signature accounts from more than 500 million other Visa customers, including debit, credit and business accounts. The premium cards are aimed at those whose annual household income is more than $125,000. According to the latest available Census data, there were about 19 million such households in the United States in 2005. 
 The central image behind the campaign is a checklist of life experiences, consisting of unusual packages that are available only to Signature cardholders. Items on the list range from the merely luxurious (''Take a weeklong spa vacation'') to attending events generally not open to the public, like the Tony Awards ceremony. 
 The ads feature the checklist printed over images related to certain entries, like racehorses (''Go to the Kentucky Derby'') or Claude Monet's paintings of water lilies at the Museum of Modern Art (''Tour MoMA with a personal guide''). 
 The print ads will run in major newspapers and upscale magazines from Conde Nast and Hearst, like Vanity Fair, Gourmet, Conde Nast Traveler, and Town and Country. Visa also placed print ads in other publications that are seen as reliable news sources, like The Economist, The Atlantic Monthly and Conde Nast's forthcoming Portfolio. 
 Many of the rewards packages provide an exclusive slant, like meet-and-greet sessions or parties at events like the Grammys and the Super Bowl.
 ''Given that these are affluent customers, they could go get a lot of the stuff on their own,'' said James F. McCarthy, senior vice president for consumer credit products at Visa. But by adding unusual access, he said, Visa Signature has found ''a way to bring it to life very differently.''
 The focus of the online campaign is a refurbished Visa Signature Web site, visa.com/signature, which is to become active on Thursday. The Web site incorporates content from Visa's online advertising partners, including CondeNet and National Geographic, in clickable entries on the list.
 The entry for ''Visit an active volcano'' includes a National Geographic map of potential destinations, as well as a link to the magazine's Web site. A ''Riverboat Rhythms'' mix from the Internet radio service Pandora.com accompanies the entry for ''Take a steamboat cruise down the Mississippi.'' Meanwhile, those partner sites will carry banner ads to drive traffic back to the Signature Web site.
 ''It connects to so many things, it's almost creating an experience,'' Ms. Lyons said. The campaign was handled by Visa's usual partner agencies, TBWAChiatDay for print and AKQA for online.
 The experiences are meant for a fairly select group of wealthy consumers, which led Visa to skip television and its expensive but less specific advertising reach. 
 The members of Visa's ''new affluent'' consumer base watch relatively little television -- and when they do, they often use digital video recorders that allow them to skip commercials. ''You don't want to spend a lot of television dollars and hit people for whom the television is not relevant,'' Ms. Lyons said.
 While the typical Signature cardholder has the money for luxury goods or exclusive rewards packages, free time is their biggest luxury. These consumers have ''made their money through earning it,'' said Wayne Best, the senior vice president of economic analysis for Visa. ''They're still in the work force, and very stretched for time, which translates into greater need for services.''
 Those services include not only the exclusive, and expensive, vacation packages, but also 24-hour concierge services, travel upgrades and advance reservations for restaurants, theater and film events. Although not the main focus of the campaign, these benefits are mentioned on the Signature Web site, where current cardholders can browse or buy rewards packages and aspiring cardholders can find more information.
 According to Ms. Lyons, the campaign is as much about increasing consumer awareness of the Visa Signature sub-brand as it is about acquiring new customers. 
 In addition to the checklist and the ''Life takes Visa'' slogan, the print ads and the Web site include images of some Visa Signature cards, in an effort to jog the memories of consumers who already have the cards. 
 ''We've discovered that a lot of Signature cardholders aren't even aware of all the rewards,'' Ms. Lyons said. ''We've got a little catch-up to do to get customers to associate us with a high-end product.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visa says that holders of its Signature card should experience the Kentucky Derby, among other diversions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (64%); PAINTING (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%); CENSUS (50%) Credit and Money Cards; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: VISA INC (96%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Visa International Inc

TICKER: V (NYSE) (96%); AXP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%)

PERSON: Maria Aspan

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



284 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Starrett City Sale Draws 2 New Doubters

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Schumer and the federal housing secretary added their voices yesterday to the growing chorus of politicians and community advocates who are demanding that Starrett City, the largest federally subsidized housing complex in the country, remain a haven for poor, working and middle-class families.
 Last Thursday, an investment group led by David Bistricer agreed to buy the 5,881 apartments in 46 towers on Jamaica Bay in Brooklyn for $1.3 billion. 
 Although Mr. Bistricer has said that he wants Starrett City to remain an affordable enclave, critics fear that anyone paying such a heady price would almost certainly have to raise rents and displace tenants at a complex remarkable for its economic and ethnic diversity.
 Mr. Schumer said in an interview yesterday that he would ''do everything I can to block'' the transaction.
 ''There is no way that this deal at this price can go through without massive changes at Starrett City,'' he said.
 Later in the day, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Alphonso Jackson, said in a statement: ''This transaction has the potential to threaten New York City's low-income housing market and those who need it. Starrett City is more than a piece of land: it is a community.''
 Mr. Jackson added that his agency, which must approve or reject a new owner, would scrutinize the transaction closely and aggressively.
 In a meeting yesterday morning with city, state and federal officials at the New York offices of HUD., Mr. Bistricer pleaded with officials to tone down their rhetoric. He told them that he had no plans to oust existing tenants at the 140-acre complex, although he would like to build condominiums and subsidized rental housing on vacant parts of the property, officials said.
 Over the past week, executives involved with Mr. Bistricer said that his group, Clipper Equity L.L.C., would buy out of the state's Mitchell-Lama program for middle-income tenants. They said that most tenants would be unaffected, because they would qualify for federal rent vouchers. But state and city officials contend that hundreds of tenants could be displaced.
 One official who attended the meeting said that Mr. Bistricer had indicated that he would consider remaining in the program if certain issues could be worked out.
 ''Our hope is to together formulate a plan that preserves long-term affordability and makes sense to all parties concerned,'' Len Grunstein, a lawyer for Mr. Bistricer, said last night. ''It was a positive meeting, but there's a lot of work to be done.''
 The city is in the midst of both a residential building boom and a rapid increase in prices for housing. Well-funded investment groups are now gobbling up what they had long ignored -- tenements and unremarkable apartment buildings in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx -- for astronomical prices. That, in turn, has generated a hue and cry about the potential loss of working-class and even middle-class housing.
 Starrett City Associates, the longtime owners of the complex, moved to take advantage of the market last year by putting it on the auction block. The complex, which opened in 1975, was conceived as a middle-income Mitchell-Lama co-op. But it failed to attract enough interest, and over time it acquired a web of state and federal subsidies for low-, moderate- and middle-income tenants.
 The sale was complicated by the fact that Starrett City Associates, led by Disque Dean, imposed an order prohibiting potential buyers from talking to state or city officials.
 Officials, in turn, wanted to make buyers aware that they were not free to do whatever they wanted with the property. Federal officials must review any sale. City officials insist that any major development at the complex would require a lengthy review and municipal approval.
 The purchase of Starrett City, Mr. Bistricer's first step into the big leagues of New York real estate, has taken a bewildering turn. Up to now, he has been a relatively small-time player who abhorred the spotlight. Eighteen months ago, he and a partner bought Vandermeer Estates, a troubled complex in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, renaming it Flatbush Gardens.
 On Friday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg denounced his prospective purchase of Starrett City, saying that there were nearly 9,000 building violations at Flatbush Gardens. Mr. Bistricer told officials yesterday that he inherited the violations and pleaded with the city to temper its criticism.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about growing political opposition to the pending $1.3 billion sale of the Starrett City apartment complex in Brooklyn misspelled the name of a different Brooklyn complex owned by a group headed by David Bistricer, who also wants to buy Starrett. It is Vanderveer Estates, not Vandermeer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer said yesterday that he would try to block the sale of the Starrett City complex. (Photo by Kathy Willens/ Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); FAMILY (73%) Housing; Starrett City Housing Development (Brooklyn); Mitchell-Lama Projects; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Urban Development Department (Hud); Clipper Equity Llc

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (79%) Charles V Bagli; Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Alphonso (Sec) Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



285 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
S.E.C. Takes Steps to Limit Fraud Suits by InvestorsThe Securities and Exchange Commission is promoting a legal standard that would make it harder for shareholders to win fraud lawsuits against companies and executives, and is considering ways to protect auditors from large damage awards. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1Rekindling the FireSenator Hillary Rodham Clinton has been trying to capture Bill Clinton's old political magic and lay claim to his legacy and popularity, mentioning him at nearly every turn on the campaign trail. PAGE A18Reporters Testify That Libby Did Not Mention OperativeLawyers for I. Lewis Libby Jr. 
opened their case with a parade of reporters who testified that Mr. Libby never mentioned the identity of a C.I.A. operative when they interviewed him during the period the officer's identity was leaked. PAGE A15Faces, Faces Everywhere Why do people see faces everywhere they look: in the Moon, in Rorschach inkblots, in potato chips? Compelling answers are beginning to emerge. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1A Familiar Voice Is Back Ten years after his death, Carl Sagan has rejoined the cosmic debate with a book exploring science and religion. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1 Gunman Kills 5 in Utah MallA gunman randomly shot at customers and employees during dinnertime in a shopping mall near downtown Salt Lake City, killing five people and wounding several others before he was killed by a police officer. PAGE A16Strains on Iran's Oil LifelineWestern political and economic pressure on Iran over its nuclear program has chilled foreign investment and is now squeezing its fragile energy industry, adding strains to a government wary of domestic unrest. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1$25 Million for a Climate PlanRichard Branson has offered a $25 million prize to anyone who figures out how to remove a billion tons of carbon dioxide a year from the atmosphere. ''Findings,'' by John Tierney. SCIENCE TIMES, PAGE F1It's ShowtimeFaith, a Shih Tzu, waited for her turn in the ring as the preliminary judging began at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show at Madison Square Garden in New York. The best-in-show will be chosen tonight. SPORTSTUESDAY, PAGE D1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Brian Snyder/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DOGS (86%); DAMAGES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); RELIGION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN F TIERNEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



286 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: IN SHIFT, A DEAL IS BEING WEIGHED BY NORTH KOREA

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY and DAVID E. SANGER; Jim Yardley reported from Beijing, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The United States and four other nations reached a tentative agreement to provide North Korea with roughly $400 million in fuel oil and aid, in return for the North's starting to disable its nuclear facilities and allowing nuclear inspectors back into the country, according to American officials who have reviewed the proposed text.
 While the accord sets a 60-day deadline for North Korea to accomplish those first steps toward disarmament, it leaves until an undefined moment in the future -- and to another negotiation -- the actual removal of North Korea's nuclear weapons and the fuel that it has manufactured to produce them.
Bush administration officials said they believed that the other nations participating in the talks -- China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- would consent to the tentative agreement as soon as Tuesday. The parties still await a final confirmation from the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il. The tentative agreement was forwarded to the respective national capitals Tuesday morning. 
 In essence, if the North agrees to the deal, a country that only four months ago conducted its first nuclear test will have traded away its ability to produce new nuclear fuel in return for immediate energy and other aid. It would still hold on to, for now, an arsenal that American intelligence officials believe contains more than a half-dozen nuclear weapons or the fuel that is their essential ingredient. 
 The accord also leaves unaddressed the fate of a second and still-unacknowledged nuclear weapons program that the United States accused North Korea of buying from the Pakistani nuclear engineer Abdul Qadeer Khan in the late 1990s, in what appeared to be an effort to circumvent a nuclear freeze the North negotiated in 1994 with the Clinton administration.
 Negotiations had appeared near collapse on Sunday over North Korea's demands for huge shipments of fuel oil and electricity.
 Under the new tentative agreement, the oil and aid for North Korea would be provided by South Korea, China and the United States -- meaning that President Bush would need to win Congressional approval. That proved difficult for the Clinton administration, which constantly fought hawks in Congress over providing fuel oil to the impoverished nation under the earlier accord.
 Japan has declined to participate in providing oil or aid until it resolves separate issues with North Korea about the abduction of some of its citizens by the North, American officials said.
 In Washington on Monday night, administration officials declined to call the first phase of the new agreement a ''nuclear freeze.'' The term has echoes of the Clinton accord, which Mr. Bush had criticized because it failed to force the North to ship its nuclear fuel out of the country before it received significant aid. The officials insisted that the current agreement was different because the North will not receive light-water nuclear reactors, like the ones it was promised in the 1994 agreement, and because the agreement will also be signed by the North's immediate neighbors, including China.
 Beijing was the North's ally in the Korean War and its protector for decades, but relations have been strained and the Chinese leadership was apparently pressuring the North to accept the new agreement.
 ''If they renege on this,'' said one senior administration official, who would not speak on the record because the deal had not been signed, ''they are sticking their fingers into the eyes of the Chinese.''
 Nonetheless, some administration officials acknowledged that they had concluded that a step-by-step accord was their only choice and that it would be impossible to set a schedule for the North's disarmament without taking initial steps to build trust.
 ''Everybody had to make some changes to try to narrow the differences,'' the chief American negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, told reporters as he returned to his hotel at 2:41 a.m. on Tuesday.
 Mr. Hill was expected to meet again on Tuesday in Beijing with envoys from China, South Korea, Japan, Russia and North Korea to learn if each nation has approved the deal. He said he had been in frequent contact with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during the late-night negotiations and that he believed the Bush administration would support the agreement. ''We feel it is an excellent draft,'' he said. ''I don't think we are the problem.''
 If Mr. Hill is correct, it marks a major change of course for an administration that has been beset by six years of virulent internal arguments over whether to negotiate with North Korea or squeeze the government of Mr. Kim until it collapses. Hawks in the administration, including many allies of Vice President Dick Cheney, have opposed any deal that would provide aid to the North before it disgorges its arsenal.
 Even before the preliminary agreement was signed in Beijing, one of Mr. Cheney's proteges, John R. Bolton, who left his post as American ambassador to the United Nations just two months ago, denounced the accord. ''This is a very bad deal,'' he said on CNN, urging President Bush to reject it. He added that ''it contradicts fundamental premises of the president's policy,'' and he said that it made the administration ''look very weak.''
 Gary Samore, who was the top nonproliferation official in the Clinton White House and who negotiated with North Korea, commended the Bush administration for negotiating an accord with the North, but said: ''Unfortunately, it is three years, eight bombs and one nuclear test too late. But better late than never.''
 Under the details of the deal, as described by American and Asian officials, the $400 million in aid would be disbursed to the North as it meets its initial commitments, probably over the course of a year. The first of those must be completed in the next 60 days, including the ''permanent disablement'' of the country's existing nuclear facilities at Yongbyon, its main nuclear complex north of the capital, Pyongyang. 
 The International Atomic Energy Agency, whose inspectors were kicked out of North Korea four years ago, also would need to be invited back in. And the North would have to prepare a ''complete declaration'' of all its nuclear facilities, turning that over to all of the parties in the talks and the I.A.E.A.
 That would pave the way for a second phase, in which ''working groups'' would negotiate the details of disarmament, including turning over weapons and fuel. Other groups would explore normalization of relations, a peace treaty formally ending the Korean War, and other economic aid in return for disarmament. 
 But the disarmament process promises to be enormously complex, far harder than dismantling Libya's comparatively small nuclear complex three years ago. Libya never produced nuclear material. North Korea is believed to have made one or two weapons, or the fuel for them, nearly two decades ago, and perhaps a half-dozen or more since 2003. But American officials are uncertain exactly how many weapons the North possesses, and in the second phase of the accord, the North would have to explain what it did with the uranium-enrichment equipment that it is said to have purchased from Dr. Khan.
 ''We don't know what state that program is in,'' one senior official with access to the intelligence information said Monday. ''We only know what they appear to have bought,'' based in part on Pakistani interrogations of Dr. Khan.
 United Nations sanctions against North Korea put into place after last year's nuclear test are expected to remain in effect for the next year, American officials said.
 Some experts doubt that the North will ever agree to turn over its weapons, which it considers its main bargaining chip with the West, and Mr. Kim's only insurance policy against being toppled. ''This is a freeze with a promise to negotiate subsequent disarmament,'' said Mr. Samore. ''And a North Korean promise to negotiate later is pretty worthless.''
 Mr. Hill acknowledged that he had a lot of negotiating ahead of him. ''This is only one phase of denuclearization,'' he said. ''We're not done.''
 If the deal is approved, Mr. Hill added, the new working groups could be quickly established while chief negotiators would likely reconvene in Beijing as soon as next month. He said the tentative agreement would create a succession of deadlines that would need to be met as a precondition of the deal. 
 North Korea had nearly scuttled the negotiations in recent days by insisting on a huge energy aid package. Varying reports in Asia suggested that North Korea had demanded two million tons of heavy fuel oil and two million kilowatts of electricity in exchange for its approval of any new agreement, far less than it got.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The American negotiator, Christopher R. Hill, left, said that both sides had had to ''make some changes.'' (Photo by China Photos/Getty Images)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KIM JONG IL (73%) Jim Yardley; David E Sanger; Kim Jong-Il; Abdul Qadeer Khan; George W (Pres) Bush; Christopher R (Asst Sec) Hill

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) North Korea; South Korea; China; Russia; Japan; North Korea; Pakistan; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



287 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: States and U.S. At Odds on Aid For Uninsured

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
In the absence of federal action, governors and state legislators around the country are transforming the nation's health care system, putting affordable health insurance within reach of millions of Americans in hopes of reversing the steady rise in the number of uninsured, now close to 47 million.
 But the states appear to be on a collision course with the Bush administration, whose latest budget proposals create a huge potential obstacle to their efforts to expand coverage. While offering to work with states by waiving requirements of federal law, the Bush administration has balked at state initiatives that increase costs to the federal government.
State efforts have almost invariably begun with children, building on the Children's Health Insurance Program, which is jointly financed by the federal and state governments. Many states are eager to expand eligibility for that program, and some are going far beyond the income levels deemed appropriate by the White House. In his budget last week, President Bush said he wanted to return the program to its ''original objective'' of covering children with family incomes less than twice the poverty level.
 Sixteen states already cover children in families with incomes above 200 percent of the poverty level, and some want to go higher, even as the president seeks to reduce federal payments for children in families with higher incomes. 
 In New York, Gov. Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, has proposed raising the state's income limit to 400 percent of the poverty level, from 250 percent. A family of four is considered poor if its annual income is less than $20,650. Arizona and Wisconsin are also proposing raising income ceilings.
 In California, as part of a plan to cover all state residents, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, proposed increasing the income limit for the children's insurance program to 300 percent of the poverty level, from 250 percent.
 Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois, a Democrat, said Mr. Bush's proposal ''would seriously hamper the efforts of Illinois and other states'' to ensure that all children had coverage -- the goal of a state law he signed in November 2005.
 The movement to expand coverage is by no means limited to children any more.
 The National Conference of State Legislatures has reported: ''Health care reform was hot in legislatures across the nation in 2006, and the forecast for this session may be even hotter. Fueled by the increasing number of uninsured Americans, the declining number of employers offering insurance to their employees, the improved fiscal conditions in the states and the lack of federal action, states are leading the way in health care reform.''
 Officials cite a groundswell of state activity:
 Arkansas, Kentucky, Montana, Oklahoma, Rhode Island and Tennessee have new laws and programs to reduce the cost of insurance for small employers.
 Massachusetts and Vermont passed laws in 2006 to achieve universal or nearly universal coverage, while addressing the cost and quality of care.
 Several states, including Colorado and Delaware, are requiring insurers to cover young adults, the fastest-growing segment of the uninsured population.
 ''We have a goal that all Minnesotans should be covered by health insurance,'' Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican, said in an address to the State Legislature last month.
 In New York State, the Children's Health Insurance Program covers 385,000 children, of whom 55,000 have family incomes above 200 percent of the poverty level. Another 50,000 children would be eligible under Governor Spitzer's proposal to increase the income ceiling.
 The federal government now pays 65 percent of the cost of coverage for each child in New York's program, or $1,154 a year out of a cost of $1,776. Judith Arnold, the program's director, said Monday that under the president's proposal, the federal contribution would be reduced by $266 a child. So, she said, New York would lose $14.6 million a year. 
 Knowing they cannot count on a major infusion of federal money, some states are looking to their own revenue sources, including tobacco taxes, pools of money set aside for charity care and uncompensated care, and assessments levied on employers who do not provide health benefits to their workers.
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, has proposed paying for coverage of the uninsured through a variety of new taxes, including an increase in the state's tobacco tax. 
 Mr. Rendell also wants to levy a 3 percent assessment on the payrolls of businesses that do not offer coverage to their employees.
 Similarly, under Governor Schwarzenegger's proposal, businesses with 10 or more employees would have to offer insurance to their workers or pay 4 percent of their payroll into a state fund to be used for coverage.
 State efforts face several potential pitfalls. The cost of coverage could spin out of control. An economic downturn could reduce states' fiscal capacity. Moreover, a federal law, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, could block any state program that requires employers to alter their health plans.
 In Washington, health policy debates highlight the ideological divide between Republicans and Democrats over the proper role of government in helping the uninsured. Governors and state legislators tend to be more pragmatic.
 ''There is such a political divide in Washington that many people believe that the only reasonable chance to succeed is at the state level,'' said Jeffrey S. Crowley, a senior research scholar at the Health Policy Institute of Georgetown University.
 Soaring health costs are placing pressures on employers and employees alike. In recent weeks, companies like Wal-Mart have joined labor unions and consumer groups in coalitions espousing universal coverage.
 In his State of the Union address on Jan. 23, Mr. Bush proposed a new tax deduction to help people buy health insurance outside the workplace, and he said he wanted to help ''states that are coming up with innovative ways to cover the uninsured.''
 In his budget, Mr. Bush said the way to transform the health care system was by ''subsidizing the purchase of private insurance,'' not by expanding public programs in a way that would increase costs to the federal government.
 To slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, Mr. Bush asked Congress to squeeze tens of billions of dollars from the programs.
 Mr. Bush's efforts, combined with the flurry of state activity, have forced Congress to face fundamental questions about the Children's Health Insurance Program: If states run out of money, should the federal government bail them out? Should states be allowed to use the money to cover adults?
 More than a dozen states expect to exhaust their allotments of federal money in the next few months, raising the possibility that children will be removed from the rolls. Georgia and New Jersey, for example, said they would run out of money by May.
 White House officials said that some states had strayed from the purpose of the program in another way, by covering adults. Mr. Bush wants to prohibit states from adding childless adults to the rolls. And he would restrict eligibility for parents.
 Jason A. Helgerson, policy director for the Wisconsin Department of Health and Family Services, said, ''There is strong empirical evidence that when you cover adults and children, you get more kids covered.'' In Wisconsin, the Children's Health Insurance Program covers 36,900 parents and 29,800 children, Mr. Helgerson said.
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, asked: ''What is going on here? When we created the program, its purpose was to provide coverage for low-income children.''

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Covering Children''Since 1997, the State Children's Health Insurance Program has provided federal support to help states insure low-income children whose parents earn too much to qualify for Medicaid. Eligibility for the program is determined by each state based on the federal poverty level, which is $20,650 for a family of four.Graph tracks percentage of people without health insurance coverage since 1989.Top income eligible for the Children's Health Insurance Program in 2005Map of the United States highlighting percentage of federal poverty level.HIGHEST IN NATION: New Jersey -- 350%* Tennessee did not participate in the program in 2005(Sources by Census Bureau
 Congressional Research Service)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); JUVENILE LIFE INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (63%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Health Insurance and Managed Care; States (US); Law and Legislation; Children and Youth; Medicine and Health; Small Business; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (78%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Pear; Raymond Hernandez; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States; New York State; California; Vermont; Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



288 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: This Expansion Looks Familiar

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It is five years into an economic expansion and most Americans are still waiting for their share. Inflation is swallowing pay raises. Businesses are hiring, but forecasters worry that the economy may be about to stall. 
 ''If this is a recovery,'' the leader of the political opposition complains, ''I can hardly wait for the recession.''
This may sound like the stuff of today's headlines. But it comes from 1996, when Bill Clinton was president and his rival was Bob Dole, the Republican nominee. The economic expansion in question, which got off to a sputtering start in March 1991, was to become the longest period of uninterrupted growth in the nation's history. 
 Now, a little more than five years into an expansion that officially started in November 2001, the economy is showing remarkable parallels to the situation of a decade ago. ''It's striking how similar they are,'' said Robert J. Gordon, an economics professor at Northwestern University. 
 The overall rate of growth has followed a trajectory almost identical to the first five years of the 1990s expansion. Now, as then, corporate profits have surged; the stock market has, too. But just as workers have finally begun to reap some of the spoils of a growing economy, many forecasters worry -- as they did a decade earlier -- that the expansion is running out of steam.
 What is striking, considering these similarities, is how little effect the policy choices of Democratic and Republican administrations seem to have had on how both growth cycles played out.
 Few economic forecasters expect the current growth cycle to have the length and vigor of the 1990s boom, which continued for 10 years from trough to peak. 
 Yet fewer still expected strong growth in the mid-1990s. In early 1996, forecasters polled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia predicted that the economy would grow merely 1.8 percent that year. The economy ended up growing at twice that pace. 
 Average Americans were more pessimistic then than they are now. According to Gallup's most recent snapshot of public opinion, last month 52 percent of Americans rated economic conditions as either excellent or good. In May 1996, at a similar moment in the previous expansion, only 30 percent did so.
 ''Consumers don't expect a slowing economy,'' said Richard T. Curtin, who heads the surveys of consumers at the University of Michigan. ''According to consumers, we are going to improve.''
 Given the parallels, perhaps it is not surprising that the economy is providing the same sort of political ammunition as it did 10 years ago. 
 ''Profits are up for our companies, but where are the wage increases?'' asked Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, in an online conversation with voters last month, after announcing that she intends to run for president. ''Where are the, you know, the benefits that should accrue to hard-working Americans?''
 Wage increases have, indeed, been slow in coming. In December, 61 months after the economy started to grow, the wages of production and other nonmanagement workers were barely 1.7 percent higher, after inflation, than when the economy hit bottom in November 2001. Most of those gains came in the last few months.
 But many people have forgotten that, initially, the expansion of the 1990s was also called a ''jobless recovery,'' and then a ''joyless'' one, when employment started growing but real wages did not. In April 1996, 61 months into that growth cycle, the hourly wages of nonmanagement workers were actually worth 0.4 percent less, after inflation, than when the expansion began.
 ''Now this is a real economic slowdown,'' Mr. Dole said on a campaign stop in Florida in October of that year. ''And I might say, it's disastrous news for American workers and businesses and even worse news for low- and moderate-income Americans who have been squeezed and squeezed and squeezed by lower wages and higher taxes in this administration.''
 Advocates on each side insist that government policy was crucial to steering the economy. Gene B. Sperling, a former economic adviser to Mr. Clinton, argued that his administration's efforts to cut the budget deficit were instrumental in bringing down interest rates and improving investors' confidence in the economy. 
 By contrast, Edward P. Lazear, President Bush's chief economic adviser, argued that the tax cuts enacted by the Bush administration in 2003 deserve some credit for the current expansion. ''They had a fundamental impact on investment,'' Mr. Lazear said. ''There was an abrupt turnaround at the point when those tax cuts were put into effect.''
 But even Mr. Lazear conceded that the role of policy in driving the economy can be overstated. ''Neither President Clinton nor President Bush fundamentally altered the structure of the American economy,'' he said. ''This is a pretty healthy economy where the private market is most of what is going on.''
 There are substantial differences, of course, in the nature of the two expansions. The early '90s were characterized by a building bust; the current one has been supported by a housing bubble. The boom of the second half of the 1990s was underpinned by an Internet-driven investment bubble, but most technology stocks today are far below their earlier highs.
 ''In both situations we had overinvestment, now in housing, then in fiber optics,'' said Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor of economics at Columbia who was Mr. Clinton's chief economic adviser from 1995 to 1997.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton had very different economic priorities and will leave very different economic legacies. Mr. Clinton increased the top marginal tax rate to 39.6 percent, from 31 percent, and closed the budget deficit. President Bush cut tax rates back to 35 percent, and the deficit reappeared. 
 Corporate profits have swollen twice as fast, as a share of the economy, in the first five years of this expansion, under Mr. Bush, as in the same period of the previous one.
 Still, policy has had less effect on the distribution of the rewards of growth than the stated goals of Democrats and Republicans would suggest.
 Indeed, the share of the economy devoted to workers' compensation shrank as much in the first five years of the 1990s expansion -- to 56.3 percent, from 57.7 percent, of gross domestic product -- as in the most recent five years, when it fell to 56.6 percent, from 58.1 percent.
 The decline underscores the powerful impact of globalization and technological change on the American economy over the last three decades, putting strong downward pressure on production workers' wages regardless of who occupies the White House.
 No one knows how this expansion will end. In the 1990s, nearly all the gains for ordinary Americans occurred in the second half of the decade. Comparing the current point in the economic cycle with the same moment a decade ago is something like predicting the outcome of a baseball game in the sixth inning. 
 ''If we conjecture another five years of the current expansion, I think it's going to be another surprise,'' said Professor Gordon of Northwestern. ''We had a good surprise in the '90s, but this time I think we're in for a series of bad surprises.''
 One ingredient that helped drive the 1990s expansion is missing today: the explosion of productivity that took off in the mid-'90s and lasted for more than a decade, when the investments that firms began to make in technology in the 1980s started to pay off. 
 ''It's kind of hard to point to anything like that now,'' said Ken Matheny, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers. ''It's difficult to say that we're about to have another productivity and investment boom as we saw in the late '90s.'' 
 Productivity grew by 3 percent in the last quarter of 2006. Still, for the full year, it grew only 2.1 percent, which is the slowest since 1997. 
 Even as growth has remained on a remarkably similar path in both decades, administration critics say that President Bush's policies have weakened the economy's longer-term prospects. 
 Professor Stiglitz argued that the Bush tax cuts, aimed mostly at the wealthy, opened a big hole in the budget and provided little stimulus to the economy. This forced the Federal Reserve to push interest rates very low to keep the economy afloat, he said, creating a bubble in housing.
 Under a more effective fiscal policy, Professor Stiglitz said, ''growth would be more broadly based and less of the economy would depend on real estate.''
 Mr. Sperling suggested that the mushrooming of the nation's trade imbalance and the reappearance of large budget deficits have not caused more damage to the economy because money flooding into the United States from China and elsewhere has kept long-term interest rates low, underpinning investment and consumption. That support, he suggested, will eventually dry up.
 ''We are in a moment where excess savings are coming from India and China, so perhaps it is a moment in which fiscal irresponsibility won't have as negative short-term consequences,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''But it has increased the risk factor in the economy. It is still poor long-term policy.''
 Meanwhile, the housing bubble has turned to bust, dragging residential investment down. Overall growth has been little affected so far, but many economists still expect household finances to weaken, cutting into consumer spending, the main bulwark of economic growth. 
 ''Maybe we dodged a bullet, but you don't know,'' said Jeffrey A. Frankel, an economics professor at Harvard.
 The economy seems to be getting a second wind, though, and other economists are more sanguine. ''This expansion still has legs,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group.
 If anything, he added, the biggest danger to the economy is that growth takes off again, so quickly that the Fed feels compelled to raise interest rates sharply to keep inflation at bay.
 ''Usually in the past, the Fed overdoes it,'' Mr. Baumohl said. If it does so again, ''that would be the end of this cycle.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Headlines in 1996 warned of an imminent economic bust, but the downturn happened years later. (pg. C5)Chart:A bit more than five years after it began, the current economic expansion has some key similarities to the 1990s expansion at the same point in its history. But there are also a few differences.Graphs track: GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCTGrowth from end of previous recessionJOB GROWTHYear-over-year change in employmentWORKERS' COMPENSATIONAs a share of gross domestic productINTEREST RATESYield on 10-year Treasury bonds(Sources by Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); HISTORY (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BONDS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); MARKETING SURVEYS (67%) United States Economy; Election Issues ; Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2008; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Hillary Rodham Clinton; Eduardo Porter; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



289 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer, in Reversal, Is Expected to Approve Freedom Tower, Officials Say

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the downtown real estate market improving rapidly, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is expected to abandon his criticism of the Freedom Tower as a looming white elephant and to approve construction of the tower, which would rise 1,776 feet at ground zero, according to city, state and Port Authority officials.
 When the new governor took office in January, his administration had put the Freedom Tower, one of five towers planned for the downtown site, under review. But with tenants leasing about two-thirds of the newly completed 7 World Trade Center and vacancy rates falling in Lower Manhattan, officials say that the prospects for the 2.6-million-square-foot Freedom Tower are improving.
Officials say that the point of no return is fast approaching for the $3 billion tower. Critics of the project, who regard it as poorly designed for corporate tenants and too big and expensive, had hoped that Mr. Spitzer, or his partner at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, would delay or kill the project. 
 Mr. Spitzer is expected to make an announcement about the Freedom Tower before a Feb. 22 meeting of the authority, which plans to vote on $460 million in contracts for concrete and electrical and plumbing work on the building. Next month, there will be another $300 million in contracts for curtain walls, elevators and escalators.
 A spokeswoman for the governor, Christine Anderson, declined to comment.
 The Port Authority, however, was buoyant about both the downtown real estate market and the tower. ''While we are pleased that the market conditions continue to be strong and that the building is on schedule and on budget,'' said Stephen Sigmund, a spokesman for the authority, ''we have not reached any final conclusions or moved to final authorization.'' 
 The officials said that the governor's change of heart is not an indication that corporations are suddenly lining up to lease space in the Freedom Tower, which some potential tenants fear is a possible terrorist target. Yet some authority executives say those anxieties are subsiding as the city's economy improves.
 Indeed, a state official and two senior executives at the authority say the authority has received unsolicited inquiries from hedge funds and investment banks about buying the tower, but officials have not taken any formal steps down that road. In the last year, the city has been awash with investors eager to invest billions in real estate, be it office towers or large residential complexes. For example, Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, adjoining apartment complexes in Manhattan, sold for a record-breaking $5.4 billion in November.
 A senior Port Authority executive said that a sale or lease to a private owner would entail the buyer's guaranteeing that the tower would be completed on schedule. It would also mean that the authority would not have to finance nearly $1 billion to build the skyscraper, and it would not suffer continuing losses until the building was fully leased. The buyer, in turn, would enjoy the future appreciation on the property.
 Still, some real estate experts questioned why the Freedom Tower was being built at the same time that the developer Larry A. Silverstein was getting ready to build three office towers with more than six million square feet of space. They complained that it had attracted only government tenants who were being forced to pay higher rents than they should.
 The developer Douglas Durst and the real estate investor Anthony E. Malkin say the tower is ill conceived, the result of a hasty six-week ''redesign'' after the police raised security concerns.
 Mr. Durst said that the value of the tower would increase over time, but added that it made little sense to build everything at once.
 ''People want to see an economically viable building in a resurging downtown,'' Mr. Malkin said. ''Why is government building a skyscraper for government tenants in what should be the most valuable cornerstone of the project, and maybe all of downtown? Private capital has shown a willingness to build, but perhaps not with this design.''
 Mr. Durst and Mr. Malkin say they are continuing in the footsteps of their families. 
 Mr. Durst's father, Seymour, and Mr. Malkin's grandfather, Lawrence A. Wein, were ardent opponents of the original plan for the World Trade Center. In 1964, they formed the Committee for a Reasonable World Trade Center, which argued that the complex would flood the real estate market with subsidized space and compete unfairly with private landlords. By some accounts, the complex was not fully occupied and successful until shortly before it was destroyed.
 Under the terms of a deal struck last fall, the Port Authority has taken over financial responsibility for the Freedom Tower from Mr. Silverstein. At $3 billion, the tower will cost $1,155 per square foot, which real estate experts said would require a net annual rent of as much as $80 a square foot.
 The authority expects to get about $1.2 billion in insurance proceeds, $250 million from New York State and nearly $1 billion in tax-free bonds. That still leaves a considerable shortfall, although the state and federal governments have signed nonbinding agreements to lease one million square feet, or 38 percent of the skyscraper, for initial rent of $59 a square foot. 
 In order to get construction financing, lenders usually require private developers to secure leases for about half the space in a proposed office building. In addition, investment banks, companies often paying the highest rents in the market, have no interest in the tower, principally because the floors would be too small for trading operations.
 State, city and Port Authority officials, even some who had been critical of the Freedom Tower in the past, say that the downtown market is improving faster than anyone expected. Mr. Silverstein is getting rents as high as $70 a square foot for 7 World Trade Center, they say.
 JPMorgan Chase is talking with the authority about the possibility of acquiring the site of the former Deutsche Bank building near ground zero, soon to be demolished, and Midtown corporations and law firms are beginning to move downtown, drawn by rents that are 30 percent cheaper than those uptown. 
 Port Authority officials say that if the Freedom Tower is delayed, they will be unable to capitalize on the current market.
 According to Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate firm, the vacancy rate for office space downtown has fallen to 10.3 percent, from 13.9 percent only a year ago. The Dutch bank ABN Amro recently signed a lease for 140,000 square feet at Mr. Silverstein's 7 World Trade Center, at the northwest corner of Vesey and Greenwich Streets. But Goldman Sachs plans to vacate as much as 2 million square feet in several office buildings when it moves to its new headquarters at Battery Park City.
 Barry M. Gosin, the chief executive of Newmark and a former critic of the Freedom Tower, said that he could now go ''either way'' on the project. ''There's some merit to building it later,'' he said. ''You'd get the full benefit of the created value. On the other hand, building now is fine.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: No Fireside Chat, but Plenty of Heat for the Assembly -- Gov. Eliot Spitzer continued his attacks on his party yesterday as he visited a family in Mamaroneck, N.Y., with Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson to discuss his budget. Page B4. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); BUDGETS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HIJACKING (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); AIRLINES (63%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); JON CORZINE (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%) Charles V Bagli; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



290 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2849 words

HEADLINE: Weeks After a Death, Twists in Some 9/11 Details

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and AL BAKER; Alain Delaqueriere, Sandra Jamison and Carolyn Wilder contributed research.

 BODY:
For days, a New York City police officer, Cesar A. Borja, who died of lung disease last month, was held up as a symbol of the medical crisis affecting the thousands of emergency personnel and construction workers who labored on the smoking remains of the fallen World Trade Center after the 9/11 attack.
 The Daily News published an article describing how Officer Borja had rushed to the trade center site after the twin towers fell, breathing in clouds of toxic dust that seared his lungs, and how he had chosen not to wear protective gear because the federal government had declared the air safe.
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton wrote to President Bush seeking more federal money to care for the workers and citing Officer Borja's months of ''16-hour shifts'' at the disaster site. The priest at his funeral in Queens pointed out that Officer Borja had worked as a volunteer in the recovery and cleanup efforts. 
 It was a powerful story, one that brought the officer's eloquent son to the State of the Union address in Washington on Jan. 23, the day of his father's death. The son later met with President Bush, and afterward Mr. Bush, in discussing more aid for rescue workers, said he was eager to see money directed to ''first responders,'' those first on the scene in the days and weeks after the attacks. ''If they were on that pile and if they were first responders, they need to get help,'' he said.
 It turns out, though, that very few of the most dramatic aspects of Officer Borja's powerful story appear to be fully accurate. Government records and detailed interviews with Officer Borja's family indicate that he did not rush to the disaster site, and that he did not work a formal shift there until late December 2001, after substantial parts of the site had been cleared and the fire in the remaining pile had been declared out.
 Officer Borja worked traffic and security posts on the streets around the site, according to his own memo book, and there is no record of his working 16 hours in a shift. He worked a total of 17 days, according to his records, and did not work as a volunteer there. He signed up for the traffic duty, his wife said, at least in part as a way to increase his overtime earnings as he prepared to retire.
 ''It's not true,'' Eva R. Borja, the officer's wife, said of the Daily News account of his rushing there shortly after the collapse of the trade center. In two extensive interviews, Mrs. Borja displayed her husband's memo book, where he kept detailed notes about his work across his career. The first entry for working at ground zero is Dec. 24, 2001. Almost all the rest come in February, March and April 2002, five or more months after the attacks.
 Mrs. Borja said she still believed her husband was sickened in his work around the site. Shown his father's memo book, Ceasar Borja, who had become something of a spokesman for ailing 9/11 workers, said it was the first time he understood what his father had actually done. ''They kept saying my dad's a first responder,'' he said of the newspaper accounts. ''I honestly never knew if he was a first responder.'' Asked why he had not corrected the seemingly erroneous or unconfirmed public accounts, he said, ''The reason I never tried to correct that impression is I never knew the truth of whether my father was there or not. It was always a mystery for me. I never thought of correcting them because I honestly believed it myself.''
 It is hard to determine precisely how the apparent misinformation about Mr. Borja's work at ground zero came to be reflected in newspapers, as well as in television and radio broadcasts. The family says it was not the source of the claims about working on the smoking pile. A spokeswoman for The Daily News insisted the paper had never explicitly said Officer Borja had rushed there soon after Sept. 11, only that at some point he had rushed there. Despite a number of articles and editorials that referred to him working amid the rubble and within a cloud of glass and concrete, she said the paper never actually reported his arriving there before December.
 The spokeswoman, Jennifer Mauer, continued to maintain that Officer Borja had worked ''200 hours on the pile.''
 Other newspaper accounts repeated the account of Officer Borja's work on the rubble without attributing it to anyone.
 Mrs. Borja and her son said that The New York Times was the first newspaper to ask them for documents showing Officer Borja's actual duties at ground zero.
 Doctors and coroners may yet draw a connection between Officer Borja's death and his more limited duties around ground zero. A city autopsy is under way. Experts say his illness, diagnosed as pulmonary fibrosis, is a rare and little-understood disease, which, depending on a variety of factors -- genetics, for instance -- can conceivably be caused by modest exposure to certain toxic substances or pollutants.
 Then again, doctors may find that Officer Borja, who spent much of his police career at a tow pound in Queens, had other, pre-existing problems. His family says that he smoked a pack of cigarettes a day for years before giving it up around the mid-1990s.
 Officer Borja's son said that it was possible his father had gone down to ground zero as a volunteer at some point soon after the disaster, but that his father had never mentioned it, and he had no evidence of it. He said several police officers had approached him at his father's wake and told him they recalled seeing his father on the pile, but he did not know their names.
 The Police Department said informal rosters had been kept at ground zero in the first weeks after the attacks including the names of officers who showed up to work. But the department said it could not easily retrieve the records. The department had no other comment about Officer Borja, who did not officially die in the line of duty and retired with a regular service pension.
 But when Officer Borja, who was seriously ill by 2005, filed paperwork with the city seeking an enhanced pension, he made no mention of any work before December 2001.An Emotional Fight
 Officer Borja's death came amid an unfolding and emotional fight over the health of ground zero workers and the role of city, state and federal officials in caring for those who might have been sickened by their work in and around the site. A federal lawsuit has been filed on behalf of hundreds of workers, whose lawyers say they are sick and in some cases dying because of their exposure to dangerous pollutants. That suit charges that the city and federal government failed to protect them from exposure. (The Borjas said they had no plans to sue.)
 The city's Law Department, which declined to comment for this article, has said drawing connections between 9/11 work and subsequent health problems has to be judged case by case. Congress set aside $75 million in 2005 for monitoring and treating 9/11 workers, and the White House agreed to add another $25 million last month. In a September study, Mount Sinai Medical Center found that roughly 70 percent of nearly 10,000 workers it tested from 2002 to 2004 reported that they had new or substantially worsened respiratory problems while or after working at ground zero.
 It was into that charged environment that Officer Borja's case came to light. Officer Borja, who retired in June 2003, became very sick in 2005, and was admitted to Mount Sinai in December 2006. He was determined to be suffering from pulmonary fibrosis and in need of a lung transplant to save his life, officials have said.
 The family, according to Mrs. Borja, reached out to the press. A Manhattan newspaper, The Filipino Reporter, published an article on Jan. 5 saying that Officer Borja had been assigned to security duty immediately after Sept. 11, and that he had done that work for months. It cited 16-hour shifts, and it quoted one family member as saying that Officer Borja had believed the air to be safe.
 Officer Borja's son, according to his mother, e-mailed other newspapers, as well. The Daily News responded. Throughout January, The News and other papers published numerous articles on Officer Borja's case. The News, which has mounted a campaign of stinging editorials on behalf of those believed to have been sickened at ground zero, eventually paid for Ceasar Borja, 21, to fly to Washington and back for the State of the Union address.
 The son said he had been prepared to drive, but accepted the offer. ''The Daily News comped me,'' Ceasar said. The Daily News spokeswoman said the paper was proud to have paid for the young man's trip.
 The initial accounts are full of dramatic details: The Daily News of Jan. 16 said Officer Borja ''volunteered to work months of 16-hour shifts in the rubble, breathing in clouds of toxic dust.'' That same article added: ''Borja was working at an NYPD auto pound in Queens when the twin towers fell. He rushed to ground zero and started working long days there.''
 Some of those claims were repeated in other stories in The Daily News and other papers, in both news articles and editorials. Sometimes the articles said Officer Borja had worked 14-hour shifts. Some identified him as having worked on the pile, and one Daily News editorial said he had ''labored in the pulverized concrete, glass and smoke that formed a cloud over the rubble.''
 The New York Times published one full article on Officer Borja, after he died at 52 on the evening of the State of the Union address. The article said he had become sick after working at ground zero. It said federal officials had agreed to pay for the officer's medical care as a reflection of their belief that his illness was connected to his work at ground zero.
 Politicians quickly began to speak out about the case, and the larger question of 9/11 health issues. Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of Manhattan, who has made 9/11 health a focus of her efforts for years, said of Officer Borja: ''If his death does not convince the president to come up with a plan to deal with this medical crisis and fund medical monitoring and treatment, I don't know what else will.'''A Hero' to Clinton
 Senator Clinton sent a letter to President Bush. It cited ''many months'' of Officer Borja's 16-hour shifts at ground zero, and it stated: ''Cesar Borja was a hero who served his country in her hour of need and sacrificed dearly for that service. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, as Cesar's health deteriorated, he and his family endured a great deal of hardship but never lost sight of the needs of the other workers, volunteers, first responders, and victims who survived the attacks but did not survive unharmed.''
 The praise extended to Officer Borja's funeral on Jan. 27 at St. Josaphat's Church in Queens. The Rev. Thomas C. Machalski, who celebrated the funeral Mass, said he never discussed the details of the officer's work at ground zero with his family before speaking, and relied on press accounts when he referred to his having served as a volunteer. In fact, he said he thought the officer was, "already retired when he went back to work at ground zero."
 The fifth of 12 children, Cesar Ante Borja was born on June 30, 1954, in Polangui, a city in the Bicol region of the Philippines. The son of a farmer, he came to the United States in 1976. He joined the Army, and Army records show he was an active-duty soldier for four years, and was eventually discharged from the Army Reserve in 1983 with the rank of specialist.
 He married Eva in 1982, and he soon joined the Department of Correction. He became a police officer in 1987. He served first in the 109th Precinct in Queens before settling in to many years of work in the property clerk's office and at the tow pound. There he earned a reputation for diligent work and exemplary attendance. Mrs. Borja said he liked the short commute to the pound from their home in Bayside, Queens, and the idea that he could retire from the city after 20 years with a sizable pension.
 ''He was the type who wouldn't complain,'' she said of her husband. ''Or maybe he didn't like it, and just didn't say. He would adjust to whatever situation.''
 On 9/11, Officer Borja reported for duty at the tow pound, records show. Over the next several months, there is nothing in his memo book recording any work, assigned or volunteer, at ground zero. Mrs. Borja remembers him mentioning being briefly posted in Brooklyn, near ground zero, shortly after the attacks.
 Interviews with several friends, relatives and officers who worked with him at the tow pound failed to turn up anyone who worked with him at ground zero before the end of 2001.
 Mrs. Borja said that her husband began to see the appeal of overtime pay for working shifts near ground zero late in 2001. He was close to retiring, and realized he might be able to improve his pension with the overtime hours. She said he even called his nephew, a fellow officer, to encourage him to put in for the overtime shifts, as well. Mrs. Borja said the nephew declined.
 And so Officer Borja reported on Dec. 24, 2001. The fires at the site, which had been burning for months, had been declared extinguished on Dec. 19. Considerable progress had been made in cleaning up the site.
 Officer Borja's log book makes clear where he worked during what would be 12-hour, 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. shifts: On Jan. 21, 2002, he worked at Albany and Washington Streets, three blocks south of ground zero. He worked several shifts elsewhere in Manhattan during the World Economic Forum. Then, he was back at Fulton Street and Broadway on Feb. 4, 2002. Ten of his shifts came in March or April.
 Three years later, Officer Borja became seriously ill. But in January 2006, when he filed a notice of participation -- a document required to enhance his pension under a 2005 state law allowing city workers who labored at ground zero to be declared disabled -- he was modest about his duty: he listed eight shifts around ground zero.
 On Dec. 19, 2006, he entered Mount Sinai, and soon he was near death. Mount Sinai's records indicate he listed his first shifts around ground zero as starting in December 2001, although there is a reference to him working 72 days there. There is no additional information about that notation, but the Borja family does not contend he ever worked 72 days at or around the site.
 Mrs. Borja, asked to explain how all the differing reports appeared in the press, suggested that things had simply spiraled out of control. ''When I would read it, I would say, 'Why did they put that there?' '' she said. She said she was too distracted caring for her husband and handling his funeral to correct the record.An Emerging Role
 Ceasar, though, played a very prominent role. He spoke with Mrs. Clinton at an event at ground zero. He went to the State of the Union address. He later met with President Bush in Manhattan. Articles variously quote him talking about how his father died as a public servant and saying that heroes should be looked after.
 ''That was my first, inaugural speech as a political activist, which I never expected,'' he said yesterday. ''I was just there expressing my emotions. I didn't know any facts. I was just speaking from the heart, and everything took off from there.''
 At one point during those hectic days, the son put on his father's pea coat. One newspaper account said the son had suggested it was the uniform his father wore on Sept. 11. Ceasar, in an interview yesterday, denied having said that.
 But he did address a gathering of family and friends in Queens after the State of the Union address.
 ''I made everyone in the U.S. know who Cesar Borja is, what he did for this country, and what he did for the city of New York,'' he was quoted as saying in The New York Post. ''He is the symbol of the World Trade Center, and 9/11 and New York.''
 Aides to Mrs. Clinton issued a short statement when told of the apparent discrepancies. ''She knows that sacrifices were made by so many, whether it was in the hours, days, weeks or months after the attacks of Sept. 11, and believes that they all deserve our help.''
 Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, would not talk about the details of the Borja case. He said the president respected the officer and his son and all who worked at ground zero.
 ''Ceasar Borja is someone who loved and cared for his father, and his father was a hero from what we know of New York law enforcement and his work at the World Trade Center,'' Mr. Fratto said. ''It is almost beside the point what the specific details were.''
 Officials at Mount Sinai said in a statement: ''The fact that Mr. Borja worked there for many days (and nights) provided ample opportunity for exposure to dusts.''
 Finally, Ceasar Borja, after having absorbed the implications of his father's records, said he was no less proud. ''I'm actually happy to know he wasn't on the pile,'' he said, adding that those who were must be in even graver shape. He concluded: ''I don't believe my father to be any less heroic than I previously thought, any less valiant than the other papers previously misreported on.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: On Jan. 20, Cesar A. Borja, 52, lay surrounded by his family at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He died three days later. (Photo by Allan Tannenbaum/Polaris)
On Jan. 31, eight days after Officer Borja's death, President Bush met with members of his family during a visit to Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Paul Morse/White House via Getty Images)
Eva R. Borja, the wife of Officer Borja, and their son Ceasar at home yesterday. She said her husband did not rush to the towers on 9/11. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 Officer Cesar A. Borja (Photo by Polaris)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); OVERTIME (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HIJACKING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Police; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Respiratory Diseases; Terrorism; Lungs; News and News Media; Pulmonary Fibrosis; Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: New York Daily News; Mount Sinai Medical Center (NYC)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Cesar (1954-2007) Borja; Caesar Borja; Eva Borja; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush; Sewell Chan; Al Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



291 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Putin Visits Qatar for Talks On Natural Gas And Trade

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia arrived in Qatar on Monday to discuss trade, security and the possible formation of a natural gas cartel on the second leg of a three-day tour of the Middle East that is widely seen as an attempt to expand Russia's strategic role in the region. 
 ''We seek to develop special relations between Qatar and Russia,'' Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the emir of Qatar, said shortly after Mr. Putin arrived. ''Relations at all levels have been developing vigorously over the past year and a half.''
Mr. Putin, who came from an overnight state visit to Saudi Arabia, held talks with the emir over military and trade cooperation, the Russian news agency Itar-Tass reported. Both leaders pledged to expand cooperation to better manage the worldwide supply of natural gas, but remained tentative about the possibility of forming a natural gas cartel. 
 ''We do not reject the idea of creating a gas cartel,'' Mr. Putin told reporters late Monday. ''But this initiative requires more study.'' 
 Mr. Putin said he would dispatch experts in April to a natural gas conference in Doha, Qatar's capital, to discuss the creation of a cartel modeled after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which holds sway over the world's oil prices. 
 ''It's important to cooperate and to help each other,'' Mr. Putin said. ''We also work together to defend the interests of gas exporters and coordinate our relations toward the consumers.''
 European leaders have expressed concern over even the mention of a natural gas cartel, in which Russia would likely hold significant power and could raise prices as it has over the past year for several Eastern European states. 
 Earlier Monday, in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, Mr. Putin met with Saudi businessmen seeking to encourage bilateral trade and technology cooperation, and pledged to assist Saudi Arabia in developing nuclear power generation capability. 
 The Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes all the Arab states in the Persian Gulf, announced its intention to develop nuclear technology in December, apparently a signal to Iran and the United States that the member countries could match Iran's nuclear development efforts. 
 In meetings late Sunday, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and Mr. Putin called for joint development and cooperation in sectors like communications, technology and transportation, the official Saudi news agency, SPA, reported. 
 Trade between Saudi Arabia and Russia has expanded to more than $400 million in 2005 from $88.5 million in 1999. 
 ''Russia is determined to further enhance its relations with Muslim countries, especially the Arab countries,'' Mr. Putin told Saudi businessmen at the Riyadh Chamber of Commerce on Monday. ''We are all allies of the kingdom in working to meet the world's need for energy.'' 
 Mr. Putin will continue his Middle Eastern trip Tuesday by traveling to Amman, Jordan, where he will meet with King Abdullah II to discuss economic and political cooperation, and meet with the president of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin in Saudi Arabia on Monday with Prince Salman bin Abdel Aziz. (Photo by Dmitry Astakhov/Presidential Press Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (61%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%) Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Gas (Fuel)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%) Hassan M Fattah; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) QATAR (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Qatar; Russia; Doha (Qatar); Europe; Middle East 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



292 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: New Economy, Old Spin

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Who's Afraid of the New Economy?'' (column, Feb. 11), David Brooks and the analysts he cites use rose-colored glasses and tortured data to dismiss pressing concerns facing the middle class. 
 They want us to take solace in the fact that the income of the typical prime-age household is in the $60,000 range, but don't mention that this income has fallen 4.4 percent, about $3,000, since 2000.
To these analysts, globalization is not a problem because unemployment is low. Never mind the job quality hit taken by millions of workers who've moved from manufacturing to low-end services. 
 These analysts similarly dismiss inequality concerns caused by the profit squeeze on wages. Yet corporate profits as a share of income are at a 56-year high, while the real earnings of even college graduates are up only marginally since 2000.
 The administration made these arguments before the midterm elections. They were rejected by voters for whom the middle-class squeeze is a reality that can't be explained away by political spin.Jared BernsteinWashington, Feb. 12, 2007The writer is a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICS (66%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (73%) Jared Bernstein; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



293 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Then, Iran Now: A Rising Chorus of Skeptics

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Deadliest Bomb in Iraq Is Made by Iran, U.S. Says'' (front page, Feb. 10):
 Are we to believe an administration that cried wolf when there was no wolf in Iraq? We've been lied to so much by the Bush crowd that it is difficult to imagine that any of them are telling the truth when they assert that Iran is supplying Iraqi Shiite factions with deadly bombs.
Perhaps it is true, but the American public -- and Congress -- have been set up before by false and misleading ''intelligence.''Paul R. LaRocqueArlington, Tex., Feb. 10, 2007To the Editor:
 Why is The New York Times once again passing on the claims of anonymous sources as credible information? Why should we believe it when unnamed sources discount the possibility of black-market sources for weapons with Iranian components? 
 How do we know that some of the alleged information was not elicited by torture? 
 And even if the Iranian government is supplying weapons directly to Shiite militias, the ''deadliest bombs'' in Iraq are still American, not Iranian.Eric StenshoelNew York, Feb. 10, 2007To the Editor:
 It is not surprising that Iran is working to achieve its own ends in Iraq, potentially by supplying Shiite militias with weapons. If a Middle Eastern country invaded Mexico or Canada, does anyone believe that the United States would sit by passively and watch events unfold? 
 Every country, including the United States, acts to protect its perceived interests, so we should not be shocked to discover that Iran could be trying to shape the outcome of the turmoil in neighboring Iraq. 
 What we should be shocked by is the Bush administration's attempts to create yet another pretext for an unnecessary war, this time possibly with Iran.Amanda JohnsonMadison, Wis., Feb. 10, 2007To the Editor:
 It is laughable to accuse Iran of making the deadliest bomb in Iraq when the United States is still willing to drop 500-pound bombs on populated areas that it says are hiding insurgents.
 It seems that we truly never learned the lesson from the loud, resounding drumbeat in the media that led to the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Scare the public, close our eyes and let the bombs rip.Christopher VossRavenna, Tex., Feb. 10, 2007To the Editor:
 Recognizing that roadside bombs are responsible for a majority of American combat fatalities, one must wonder why our troops are still relegated to patrolling in vehicles. Their use violates a fundamental principle of infantry combat: never bunch up.
 This is one reason why Gen. Eric K. Shinseki and others with military experience, following the Powell doctrine, recommended deploying overwhelming numbers of troops in Iraq. If their advice had been heeded, our troops would always have been able to patrol effectively on foot -- spread out -- not bunched up in easily targeted vehicles.
 Even if the vehicles our troops are using are now suitably armored, it is not surprising that someone has developed a more effective roadside bomb. It is an extremely economical way to attack our troops.
 Evidence that this administration is beginning to look out for our troops in this carelessly planned and executed war would be most welcome.William H. DouglassNew York, Feb. 10, 2007The writer was a rifle platoon commander with the Marines in Vietnam, 1967-68.To the Editor:
 Re ''Scary Movie 2'' (column, Feb. 12):
 Paul Krugman states what is obvious to the rest of the world: that our country is preparing to attack Iran.
 Congress must act now with a resolution stating that such conduct by the executive branch would be considered an act of war requiring Congressional approval. And it should make clear that it would deny financing in the absence of such approval.William D. LeMoult Warren, R.I., Feb. 12, 2007To the Editor:
 It's deja vu all over again. On the same day that ''The Build-a-War Workshop'' (editorial, Feb. 10) rightly criticizes Douglas J. Feith, a former under secretary of defense for policy, and his superiors for cooked Iraq intelligence, the front page shows that no lessons seem to have been learned from our last run-up to war.
 The news article describes interviews with ''American officials, including some whose agencies have previously been skeptical about the significance of Iran's role in Iraq.'' But the administration's pre-Iraq war subterfuge and the politically suspect timing leave me and millions of others wanting more proof than classified reports we can't see and too-convenient discoveries of Iranian markings on explosives.
 An unwillingness to challenge the administration's assertions led us to war four years ago. I fear that we are being led there again.Dan LavoieBrooklyn, Feb. 10, 2007To the Editor:
 The Democratic leadership in Congress seems poised to make accountable those who were responsible for the misinformation used to justify the Iraq war.
 It is my hope that the Congressional Democrats will use every legal means available to deliver the full truth to the American people. Accepting anything less than the full truth would be to ignore what the voters asked for last November. 
 To obtain the truth, it will be necessary to use subpoena power for records and to require those people involved in the planning and conduct of the Iraq war to testify under oath before Congress. The administration's successful attempt to start an unnecessary war is surely one of the lowest points in America's history.John MurphyMadison, Wis., Feb. 11, 2007To the Editor:
 You make an important point about accountability for the decision to attack Iraq. As a former senior intelligence analyst, I strongly support the conclusions of the report by the Pentagon inspector general about the actions of Douglas J. Feith. 
 Mr. Feith, while an under secretary of defense for policy, circumvented a process designed to prevent analytical errors from unreliable sources. He was entitled to his opinions on American policy toward Iraq, but he compromised that policy by picking reports that supported his preconceptions while ignoring caveats about unreliable sources. 
 That was an egregious overreach of his competence and responsibilities. Such advocacy-distorted policy interventions in the guise of ''alternative analysis'' deserve not just the inspector general's criticism, but also public censure for the dangerous precedent they set for ''true believers.''Leonard B. ZuzaLusby, Md., Feb. 10, 2007The writer is a former Defense Intelligence Agency analyst.To the Editor:
 The Pentagon inspector general's report about the intelligence cooked up before the Iraq war is a gut-wrenching account of the betrayal of public trust. Equally stunning were the recommendations that neither criminal charges nor corrective actions within the Defense Department were warranted. 
 When President Bush recently outlined his war surge strategy for Iraq, he repeatedly mentioned the threat posed by Iran. He continued that theme in his State of the Union speech. He has ordered another aircraft carrier and supporting ships to the Persian Gulf to send a signal to Iran. 
 Now Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates is citing serial numbers and markings on bomb fragments as ''pretty good'' evidence that Iran is providing weapons or technology to Iraqi insurgents. 
 Senator Carl Levin, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, has been criticized by some for dredging up a past that no one can change. But accumulating signs suggest we are being shepherded toward a military conflict with Iran. 
 Although the painful revelations about past errors may be too late to influence an election, they may help us avoid another tragedy. Tyler KokjohnGlendale, Ariz., Feb. 10, 2007 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (83%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: ERIC K SHINSEKI (78%); PAUL KRUGMAN (74%) Paul R Larocque; Eric Stenshoel; Amanda (Madison, Wis) Johnson; Christopher Voss; William H Douglass; William D Lemoult; Dan Lavoie; John (Madison, Wis) Murphy; Leonard B Zuza; Tyler Kokjohn; Paul Krugman; Douglas J Feith

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



294 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Economic Advisers Call for Lower Taxes and Freer Trade

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
The Bush administration reveled in the economy's continued expansion on Monday, as the president's advisers stepped up their calls for freer trade, lower taxes and a continued openness to immigration.
 In a buoyant annual report, President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers said the economy was poised to keep growing at a solid 3 percent a year, that unemployment would remain below 5 percent and that rising productivity would allow higher wages without higher inflation.
 ''I would say right now that we're pretty close to hitting it right on the head,'' Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said. 
 The optimistic outlook came at a time when the economy's broad indicators have been surprisingly favorable. Real wages rose faster than inflation last year and unemployment remains low, at 4.6 percent. Consumers continue to spend at a healthy clip and inflation has ebbed, in part because oil prices have declined sharply from last summer. 
 But the report set up a clash with Democrats and even some Republicans in Congress, by putting its emphasis on increasing investment and globalization rather than on cushioning workers from the disruptions of foreign trade and corporate overhauls.
 In addition to calling for an extension of Mr. Bush's tax cuts, which are set to expire at the end of 2010, the report floated ideas for further reducing taxes on corporate dividends, reducing corporate tax rates and letting companies immediately deduct all their costs for new equipment and infrastructure.
 ''One of the biggest misconceptions about pro-growth tax policy is that reducing the statutory corporate tax rate only benefits corporations,'' the report declared. ''Ultimately, reducing corporate taxes benefits labor through higher wages and benefits, and capital owners through higher after-tax returns.''
 The report praised globalization, brushing aside criticisms from many lawmakers in Congress about the loss of manufacturing jobs in this country or from many economists about the nation's rapidly expanding foreign indebtedness.
 ''Engagement in the global economy through increased trade has contributed to rising average living standards in the United States,'' it said. Anticipating a clash over trade with Democratic leaders, it called for Congress to extend the president's authority to negotiate trade agreements under fast-track procedures, which allow Congress to approve or reject a trade deal but not to make any amendments.
 It defended the importance of foreign investment in the United States, saying that ''access to international financial markets tends to lower borrowing costs and enable a country to increase capital investment without increasing domestic savings.'' 
 It also defended the freedom of American companies to shift some or all of their work overseas -- a practice that lawmakers in both parties have attacked as outsourcing American jobs. 
 ''When U.S. companies expand their employment abroad, they also tend to expand domestically,'' the report said. It cited studies, which it did not identify, estimating that each additional dollar of foreign capital spending is associated with $3.50 of additional domestic capital spending.
 Democrats wasted little time criticizing the report. 
 ''We can't just put on a happy face and cross our fingers that wages will grow, trade deficits will shrink, savings rates will rise and health care costs will slow,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''We need to shift focus so that working Americans start to feel as good about our changing economy as those at the very top do.''
 Democrats plan to highlight what they see as the economy's dark side later this week, when the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, delivers his semiannual report on the economy.
 Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has scheduled a follow-up hearing for Friday with economists who argue that the current economy is much worse than the overall numbers indicate.
 In a curious omission, the White House advisers barely mentioned the biggest and most immediate tax issue confronting both President Bush and Congress: the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax that was originally aimed at millionaires but will engulf 20 million households this year if it is not changed. 
 Mr. Bush and Democrats alike want to repeal the A.M.T., a change that would cost $70 billion in 2007 and more than $1 trillion over the next decade. In 2004, Mr. Bush hoped to address the issue as part of a sweeping overhaul of the tax code.
 At the time, Mr. Lazear served on Mr. Bush's advisory panel on tax changes, but the panel's recommendations were ignored as soon they were made.
 On Monday, Mr. Lazear said the report stayed away from the alternative minimum tax because it was tangential to his main focus on increasing productivity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, offered a report saying workers would benefit from lower corporate taxes. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); APPROVALS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Productivity; Wages and Salaries; International Trade and World Market; Taxation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%) Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: ED LAZEAR (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Edward (Prof) Lazear; Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



295 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
LATE TO THE GATE -- Airlines last year had the lowest percentage of on-time arrivals since 2000, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in the Transportation Department. In 2006, domestic aircraft arrived on schedule 75.45 percent of the time, compared with 72.59 percent in 2000. The five airlines with the worst on-time arrival rates last year were Skywest (63.9 percent); American Eagle, owned by AMR (64.3 percent); JetBlue Airways (64.8 percent); Alaska Air (66.3 percent); and Northwest Airlines (66.6 percent). As for luggage, with a sharp increase in the number of checked bags because tighter security procedures reduced the number of carry-on bags, airlines mishandled bags at a rate of 6.73 per 1,000 passengers, a slight increase over 2005 (6.64 per 1,000 passengers).SOUTHWEST REINSTATES SAN FRANCISCO -- Southwest Airlines, which abandoned San Francisco International Airport in March 2001, says it plans to resume service there in the early fall. ''San Francisco International is the only major Bay Area airport we don't currently serve, having made a very difficult decision in 2001 to cease service there after nearly 20 years,'' said Gary C. Kelly, the airline's chief executive and vice chairman. Mr. 
Kelly said Southwest left San Francisco because ''facility and runway constraints meant we could not compete and be profitable, and there was no growth potential beyond the 14 flights we had at the time.'' Southwest also complained about flight delays. He said recent ''constructive changes'' at the airport prompted the decision to return. Southwest said resuming service in San Francisco would not affect its 142 daily departures from Oakland International or its 77 daily departures from San Jose International. EXCESS BAGGAGE -- Coach-class travelers to and from certain worldwide destinations on British Airways are now limited to a single checked bag weighing no more than 23 kilograms, or just over 50 pounds. Excess bags on long-haul flights will cost $236 for passengers in British Air's long-haul economy-class cabins. But coach passengers to and from the United States, the Caribbean, Nigeria, Mexico and Brazil -- routes on which British Airways has tough competition -- will still be permitted to check in two bags free.REGISTERED TRAVELER EXPANSION -- Clear and Air France have opened online enrollment for Clear's Registered Traveler program, which Clear's parent, Verified Identity Pass, expects to expand to Terminal 1 at Kennedy International Airport in March. Air France, part of Air France-KLM, is a marketing partner with Clear, which already operates the program in Terminal 7 at Kennedy in a partnership with British Airways, and at four other airports: Orlando, Fla.; San Jose, Calif.; Indianapolis; and Cincinnati. Enrollment information for the Clear program, which costs $99.95 a year, is at www.flyclear.com.CUSTOMER SATISFACTION -- Market Metrix says Drury Inns, JetBlue Airways and Enterprise Rent-a-Car ranked highest for customer satisfaction in their categories, based on 140,000 consumer interviews the research firm conducted in 2006. Overall satisfaction with the airline industry dropped 0.7 point, to 78.5 percent, the lowest level since 2001. Northwest Airlines was the lowest-ranked airline, at 70.9 percent. Among hotels, overall customer satisfaction remained unchanged, averaging 82.1 percent. But the luxury segment showed a decline of 0.7 point, to 81.6 percent.ET CETERA -- Underlining the continuing shift away from the 50-seat and smaller regional jets, Delta Air Lines ordered 30 Bombardier CRJ900 jets, which seat 86 passengers each, for a total cost of $1.1 billion Starting Thursday, Delta is doubling, to 12, its number of nonstop flights between New York and Chicago. It will offer free slices of Junior's Cheesecake of New York that day to passengers at Midway Airport in Chicago, while Eli's Cheesecake of Chicago will be given to passengers at the Marine Air Terminal at La Guardia. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Delays (Transportation); Airports; San Francisco International Airport (Calif); Luggage; Security and Warning Systems; Airlines and Airplanes; Airlines and Airplanes; Automobiles; Renting and Leasing; Airlines and Airplanes; Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (85%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (91%) Bureau of Transportation Statistics; Southwest Airlines; British Airways; Air France; Market Matrix; Drury Inns; Jetblue Airways; Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co; Delta Air Lines Inc ; Bombardier Inc

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); ALK (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (56%); AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (89%) Joe Sharkey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) San Francisco (Calif); Chicago (Ill); New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



296 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: Building a Conversation, One Radio Show at a Time

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

DATELINE: HAMPTON, Va., Feb. 11 

 BODY:
At a gathering here Saturday of roughly 10,000 people who came for a conversation concerning the problems confronting blacks, Tom Joyner, the conference co-host, told the audience he had been ''ready to be angry'' as he took a tour about the Jamestown settlement nearby and thought of slave ships. What he experienced instead, he said, was not anger but something akin to his feelings about mainstream media coverage of blacks: a story certainly not from a black perspective.
 ''We've got to stop going to other people to get what we need,'' Mr. Joyner told the predominantly black audience, here for ''State of the Black Union,'' an annual event, held this year at Hampton University in conjunction with the 400th anniversary celebration of the establishment of the first permanent English colony at Jamestown. 
 For the past 13 years, Mr. Joyner has been the host of ''The Tom Joyner Morning Show,'' which is dedicated to offering what he thinks blacks need: an unfiltered conversation about black life and black issues from a black perspective. Far less known outside African-American communities than other radio talk-show hosts like Rush Limbaugh or Howard Stern, Mr. Joyner has an estimated eight million listeners in a given week in the roughly 120 markets where his show is syndicated, making it the nation's largest black-oriented radio show.
 Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., Democrat of Illinois, said that black radio was ''probably the most central vehicle for communicating with the masses of African-Americans.'' And within that niche, he continued, Mr. Joyner's show is ''the pre-eminent vehicle.'' 
 Unlike Mr. Stern or Mr. Limbaugh, Mr. Joyner does not aspire to shock his audience or to hammer home a partisan position. In Mr. Joyner's town square on the radio five mornings a week (with a recap on Saturdays offering highlights of the week's shows), the conversation ranges from speculation about the White House to jokes about Whitney Houston. His guest list in the last year has included former President Bill Clinton; the actors Will Smith and Jamie Foxx; Senator Barack Obama of Illinois; the singers Lionel Richie and Aretha Franklin; the comedian Bill Cosby; the scholars Cornel West and Henry Louis Gates Jr.; Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker; and Bishop T. D. Jakes, the televangelist.
 Mr. Joyner's show blends such interviews with radio staples like news, sweepstakes and comedy. There's a ''cash call contest'' and a humorous soap opera called ''It's Your World,'' about a fictional, prosperous all-black town. The four-hour show also includes news analysis with Jacque Reid and celebrity news with Jawn Murray. Mr. Joyner's site, BlackAmericaWeb.com, includes news, surveys and games. 
 As Martin Luther King's Birthday approached last month, Mr. Joyner and his crew -- which includes Sybil Wilkes, a newscaster, and the comedians J. Anthony Brown, ''Ms. Dupre'' and Myra J., who delivers tongue-in-cheek tips to single moms -- joked on the air that listeners should remember to wish their white colleagues a happy holiday. 
 Mr. Joyner has had his share of setbacks, of course. He has failed to make a go of it in either Los Angeles or New York, the biggest markets in radio. His comedy-variety television series, ''The Tom Joyner Show,'' which was syndicated in 2005 in more than 100 markets, including New York, lasted only one year; Mr. Joyner blamed production costs for its demise.
 Some critics say Mr. Joyner's emphasis on his core audience -- mostly female, middle-aged and middle-class -- has led him to neglect certain issues. ''A lot of issues on the younger end don't get touched,'' Paul Porter, a founder of Industry Ears, a research group dedicated to promoting justice in the media, said of Mr. Joyner's radio show. Mr. Porter said that Mr. Joyner had largely missed the debate over the misogyny and violence found in the lyrics of some rap music. ''There are topics he can't discuss because of the advertisers,'' Mr. Porter speculated. 
 Still, some people believe that Mr. Joyner is poised for greater visibility. Donna Brazile, the Democratic political strategist, is among them. ''He is the black version of Rush Limbaugh, but he's a lot different,'' she said, in a telephone interview. ''Rush Limbaugh speaks only to conservatives, the true believers. Joyner crosses over all the lines in the black community.'' 
 Mark Anthony Neal, a professor of black popular culture at Duke University and the director of the university's Institute of Critical U.S. Studies, said: ''I think you could make the argument that he's the most important black man in black America. There are 32 million African-Americans and he reaches about one in four. He's impacting people in their cultural quarters and in their everyday lives.''
 Mr. Joyner, a husky, soft-spoken man with a Southern accent, demurs that he is merely a disc jockey who ''superserves'' his market: he has dispensed more than $3 million to nearly 2,000 contest winners since 2004 and $55 million since the Tom Joyner Foundation began in 1998 to help students at predominantly black colleges. His hot-button issues are quality education, jobs and the economy, health care and, lately, supporting the servicemen and women stationed overseas who call in to his show. He tells them that he hopes they come home from Iraq soon. 
 Unlike more strident pundits, Mr. Joyner does not tell listeners what to think. But what Mr. Joyner calls his ''air advocacy'' is on display, especially when he joins with Tavis Smiley, the media personality and editor of the best-selling book ''The Covenant With Black America,'' who offers twice-weekly commentary on Mr. Joyner's show. Over the years, the two have led a number of campaigns. They pressured the owner of some slave artifacts to donate them to a museum instead of putting them up for bid at Christie's auction house. They pushed for the Congressional Gold Medal for Rosa Parks , which she received in 1999. 
 Mr. Smiley said he came up with the idea for Mr. Joyner's ''Sky Shows'' around the country (so named because Mr. Joyner flies in from his Dallas base to preside over them), which regularly draw large crowds. The free four-hour programs, like a recent one in Greensboro, N.C., can include a dance contest, performances by singers and comedians, pleas for voter registration and the presentation of checks to college students, all broadcast live to Mr. Joyner's affiliates.
 It is a measure of Mr. Joyner's cultural and political capital that he was the co-host of Mr. Smiley's annual State of the Black Union meeting in Hampton. Mr. Joyner received a standing ovation as he walked onstage and introduced panelists; later, he encouraged audience members to call friends to watch the C-Span broadcast of the event. The gathering attracted a Who's Who that, among many others, included Bruce Gordon, the president and chief executive of the N.A.A.C.P.; Marian Wright Edelman, the founder and president of the Children's Defense Fund; the Rev. Jesse Jackson; and Chuck D., who founded the rap group Public Enemy.
 It was a day of wide-ranging conversations, on everything from the racial identity of Senator Obama -- who officially declared his candidacy for president that day -- to the generation divide to cobbling together a black agenda in the post-civil-rights era. Much of the focus concerned the Feb. 1 release of ''The Covenant in Action,'' a companion volume to ''The Covenant With Black America,'' which Mr. Smiley promoted on Mr. Joyner's show last year. 
 ''These guys know black culture,'' Representative Jackson, who has been a guest on the Joyner show, said. ''They know black politics. They can switch from levity to defining issues and views for the average African-American in a way the 6 o'clock news cannot.'' 
 Asked what he sees as his role in the 2008 election, in which the African-American vote is seen as critical, Mr. Joyner said, ''We're going to drive people to register to vote, we're going to drive people to vote, and we're going to keep those issues that affect us in the face of any of the candidates who are running.''
 ''Black radio is the only thing I've ever done,'' said Mr. Joyner, who grew up in Tuskegee, Ala. (He does not give his age, but various sources list him as being in his late 50s.) He said he got his first break in the business in his hometown, when a local white-owned radio station set aside time each Saturday for black music; he volunteered to be the disc jockey. 
 Now Mr. Joyner, who lives in Dallas with his wife, Donna Richardson Joyner, has brought his family into his businesses: one son, Oscar Joyner, 32, is the president and chief operating officer of Reach Media Inc., his media company, while the other, Thomas Joyner Jr., 33, is the president and chief executive of his foundation. 
 Amy Alexander, a media critic who is writing a book on blacks and media, questioned Mr. Joyner's penchant for having advertisers sponsor many of his contests and initiatives, however much good they do. Southwest Airlines sponsors the Sky Shows, for example. ''He's mixing a philanthropic tip with really rank commercialism,'' Ms. Alexander said.
 In response, Mr. Joyner said: ''I'm just a D.J., but what I know is that last I checked, black people spend more than $600 billion annually. It seems to me that it just makes good business sense for advertisers to use black media to reach black consumers.'' Reach Media has annual advertising revenues of $25 million, most from the radio show, according to company executives. 
 At the conference here on Saturday, Mr. Joyner reveled in the crowd's enthusiasm for the way he brings home his message. ''It is the perfect event at the perfect time for our people,'' he said in an interview, noting his appearance on a historically black campus at a convocation center located on Emancipation Drive. ''We can tell the story of Jamestown from our perspective and the story of this upcoming election in our own way. That's what I do.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Joyner, shown at a ''Sky Show'' in Greensboro, N.C., in November, is the host of the nation's largest black-oriented radio program, which is broadcast daily in 120 markets. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Tom Joyner, center, with the Rev. Jesse Jackson at the ''State of the Black Union'' in Hampton, Va., Saturday. (Photo by Gary C. Knapp for The New York Times)(pg. E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); SWEEPSTAKES (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%) Radio; Blacks

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); BILL CLINTON (54%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (50%); WHITNEY HOUSTON (50%); NANCY PELOSI (50%); WILL SMITH (50%) Felicia R Lee; Tom Joyner

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2007



297 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: The Ad-Free Cellphone May Soon Be Extinct

BYLINE: By ERIC SYLVERS

 BODY:
ADVERTISING on your cellphone?
 Yes, and soon.
Already, ads are creeping onto cellphones around the globe. At this rate, experts say, it will not be long before the 2.2 billion mobile phone users around the world consider it natural to tune into a 15-second spot before watching a video, sending a message or listening to a downloaded song between phone conversations.
 Or so they hope. 
 ''This is the year that advertising breaks out worldwide,'' said Laura Marriott, executive director of the Mobile Marketing Association, based in Boulder, Colo., which represents more than 400 advertisers, phone makers, wireless operators and market research companies. ''Previously, there were not enough of the right phones and fast networks to support good advertising.'' 
 Ms. Marriott spoke yesterday in Barcelona, Spain, where 60,000 people are gathered this week for the 3GSM World Congress, the cellphone industry's main event of the year. Several companies at the exposition are promising to meld advertising with the mobile phone in a way that respects people's privacy while bringing in new revenue to offset sagging growth in voice services for phone carriers. 
 Yahoo, for instance, began displaying ads Sunday on sites accessible to subscribers with advanced cellphones in 19 countries. Mobile phone users with data as well as voice subscriptions would see the ads when going to Yahoo's home Web page on their phones. They could then click on an ad to dial a company directly or to get more information and special offers. 
 The advertisers that Yahoo has signed up include Pepsi, Procter & Gamble, Hilton, Nissan, Singapore Airlines and Intel, and the 19 countries include the United States, Brazil, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and India.
 By the time such advertising becomes a mass-market phenomenon, most people in countries with developed economies will have advanced phones that can browse the Internet and play video, according to Nick Lane, an analyst with Informa Telecoms and Media, based in London.
 The very nature of the mobile phone gives operators information about their customers that Internet and television advertisers can only dream of having. 
 Carriers know not just where their clients live, but where they are at the moment the ad is seen, how much they spend on phone services, whom they call and when, their age and sex, what games and music they play on their phones -- and how to bill them. 
 People in the industry say they know that the personalized nature of cellphones is a double-edged sword: it is what makes the medium appealing to advertisers, but many people consider the medium too personal to be invaded by outside interests. 
 Some executives warned that success was not guaranteed, especially because the industry lacks common technical standards that would make it easy for advertisers to sell to many operators at once. 
 ''The mobile phone can reach everybody and it's always on, but we need to rapidly define our industry standards to be able to benefit from this opportunity,'' Arun Sarin, chief executive of Vodafone, said in a speech yesterday in Barcelona. Vodafone is the largest mobile phone operator by revenue.
 ''If we don't work together, our suppliers will see a fragmented medium and a fragmented user base, as opposed to a single, valuable medium,'' Mr. Sarin said. ''We need to seize the moment and work together to help ads move to mobile. It won't happen well if Vodafone does it differently than Orange and T-Mobile.'' 
 The United States members of the Mobile Marketing Association -- which include Verizon Wireless, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile USA and others -- have agreed to guidelines that would limit advertising to those phone customers who ''opt in,'' or choose to receive the ads, usually in return for cheaper or free services. The organization is completing guidelines for the European market. 
 ''Privacy is a big issue, and that has to be solved for mobile advertising to be successful,'' Ms. Marriott said. ''I don't think people will opt in 24/7, but maybe they will opt in for certain times of day and for certain types of advertising.'' 
 A recent report from Informa forecast that the market for mobile advertising will rise to $11.3 billion in 2011 from almost nothing just two years ago. It is too early to tell whether one type of advertising will be dominant in developed countries because the market is still in its nascent phase, though banner ads and short video spots are sure to be big, Mr. Lane said. Text-message ads will dominate in developing countries, he said.
 Lowering the costs to consumers is especially appealing to the companies that produce media content for mobile phones. 
 ''If you can get something for half-price or for free if there is a bit of advertising, and that can be done in a noninvasive manner, that's compelling,'' said Chadd Knowlton, general manager of the content access and protection division of Microsoft. ''We'll continue to see richer and better mobile advertising across all kinds of content.'' 
 Patrick Parodi, chief marketing officer of Amobee Media Systems, which helps carriers bring advertising to their clients and showcased a new service at the Barcelona event, said reducing consumer media costs was an important outcome. 
 ''Mobile is the last remaining medium where the user has to bear the entire cost of the content,'' he said, ''and that risks stunting the growth of many new and innovative mobile services that clients might be willing to access if the costs were lower.'' 
 While the Mobile Marketing Association and other industry groups are laying down some ground rules, other basics are still being ironed out, including how best to deliver the ads. Analysts said to expect companies to introduce various styles of advertising, with possible methods including banners, text messages and multimedia messages, as well as video spots before, during or after a clip. 
 ''The mobile phone is a pristine media,'' Mr. Parodi said, ''and we have to be sure not to ruin that.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: A mobile phone display at the 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona. The industry is developing guidelines that would let cellphone subscribers choose to receive ads, usually in return for free or cheaper services. (Photo by Manu Fernandez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (79%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (79%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MUSIC (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AIRLINES (66%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Advertising and Marketing; Cellular Telephones; Privacy ; 3gsm World Congress

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (54%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); C6L (SGX) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: Eric Sylvers

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (87%); COLORADO, USA (79%) SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SINGAPORE (73%); FRANCE (53%) Barcelona (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



298 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
TRYING HARD TO BE NO. 3 -- A deal to combine four of the nation's largest car rental brands -- National, Alamo, Thrifty and Dollar -- is being discussed as the industry continues to consolidate. If completed, the deal would create the nation's third-largest rental car company. [Page C1.] ANOTHER RECORD TRADE DEFICIT -- The United States ran a record trade deficit in 2006 for the fifth consecutive year, an announcement that quickly reignited the dispute between the Bush administration and Democrats over the value of past and future deals lowering trade barriers. 
Carlos M. Gutierrez, above, the commerce secretary, said that exports were up nearly 13 percent, while Democrats called for a new direction in trade policies.[C1.] RADIO STATIONS GO VIDEO -- The nation's commercial radio stations have seen the future, and it is in video. Radio stations are putting up video fare on their Web sites, ranging from a simple camera in the broadcast booth to music videos, news clips and Web-only musical performances. [C1.]HIGHER OFFER FOR CAREMARK --The battle for Caremark Rx, the pharmacy benefits manager, moved beyond a war of words as CVS raised its bid for the company for the second time, to $25.7 billion. [C2.] A SMALLER CHRYSLER -- The Chrysler Group is set to announce a restructuring plan that is expected to call for the elimination of 11,000 jobs along with the closing of one and possibly two assembly plants. [C1.] A RULING AGAINST GOOGLE -- A Brussels court ruled that Google had violated copyright laws by publishing links to articles from Belgian newspapers without permission. [C3.] WARNING FROM EXXON MOBIL'S CHIEF -- Exxon Mobil's chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, said that governments should not rush into policies that could damage the global economy in order to limit carbon emissions. [C3.] PASSING THE UMBRELLA -- Citigroup said it would tie its businesses together under the Citi brand, with a simple stylized arc over its name, and that it would sell its signature red umbrella to the St. Paul Travelers Companies, the insurance company that had previously used the logo. [C3.]MALL OWNER PREFERS NEW BID -- The Mills Corporation, the problem-plagued owner of discount shopping and entertainment centers and traditional malls, has spurned its original merger partner and said that it preferred an offer from a partnership led by the Simon Property Group. [C3.] FASTER COMPUTER MEMORY -- I.B.M. researchers say they have set a speed record for a type of computer memory that promises a fundamental performance increase in a coming generation of microprocessors. [C7.] CALLING FOR NEW ADS -- Advertisers are increasingly looking at cellphones as a lucrative new outlet, and they hope the world's 2.2 billion cellphone users will soon consider it natural to tune into a 15-second spot before watching a video, sending a message or listening to a downloaded song between phone conversations. Advertising. [C5.] UBS REPORTS A FALL IN PROFITS -- The Swiss bank UBS said that its fourth-quarter profit declined 47 percent, to 3.41 billion francs ($2.73 billion), from the year-earlier period, which benefited from the sale of assets. UBS said it was introducing a new share-buyback program representing about 16 billion francs ($12.8 billion) over three years. [C9.] RULING AGAINST AGRICULTURE DEPT. -- A federal judge ruled that the Agriculture Department violated the law by failing to adequately assess possible environmental impacts before approving Monsanto's genetically engineered alfalfa. [C6.] LOSS IS LESS THAN FORECAST -- The home builder KB Home posted a smaller-than-expected quarterly loss, sending its shares up, after taking a $343.3 million noncash charge for declining land values.[C4.]RULING ON LILLY'S DOCUMENTS -- A federal judge ruled that confidential marketing materials belonging to Eli Lilly & Company about its top selling antipsychotic drug Zyprexa must be returned to the company by a doctor and a lawyer who, the judge said, engaged in a scheme to leak them to the media. [C7.] TAKEOVER TALK SPURS MARKETS -- Shares surged, pushing the Dow Jones industrials up by more than 100 points, as a report that two companies are independently trying to buy Alcoa fueled hopes for a pickup in takeover activity. [C7.]ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF DELL Inc.'s global online business and marketing division, John S. Hamlin, has decided to leave the computer maker rather than oversee the company's new consumer group, according to an e-mail message sent to several employees. (AP)WELLS FARGO & COMPANY is offering an incentive package that promises to waive Internet trading fees for up to 100 trades a year in stocks, no-load mutual funds and exchange-traded funds for customers who have a combined $25,000 in deposits or loans at the bank. (AP)NASDAQ STOCK MARKET INC. issued a 2007 earnings forecast that did not meet analysts' estimates, overshadowing strong quarterly earnings and sending its shares down 11 percent. (REUTERS)COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES, the largest bottler of Coca-Cola, said that it planned to cut about 3,500 jobs, or 5 percent of its global work force, after taking a $2.9 billion impairment charge in 2006. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks UBS share prices for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); MUSIC (74%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LITIGATION (69%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); RETAIL PROPERTY (64%); COPYRIGHT LAW (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (63%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); EMISSIONS (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); TRAVELERS COS INC (81%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (69%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (81%); CVS (NYSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); SPG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (69%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (56%); REX W TILLERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%) UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



299 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: It's Also the Texas Capital of Construction

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Construction cranes are dotting the skyline here after a six-year hiatus. Large swaths of downtown, once largely parking lots, low-slung buildings and warehouses, are being demolished to put up glass skyscrapers, and land that had been vacant for years is being cleared for new offices and homes all over town. 
 Yet while the new jobs tied to the growth have been welcome in a town where the economy is largely tied to state government and technology, critics say the building boom runs the risk of altering the character of the city, a place often prized by residents for its offbeat small-town vibe.
''All the capital is getting sucked into Austin,'' said Brewster McCracken, an Austin City Council member. ''That not only brings more redevelopment, but it also brings the tensions that come along with them. As we redevelop, we want to make sure we don't lose the great things that make Austin unique.'' 
 Austin has clearly become the next Texas boomtown. 
 Lured by a low cost of living, strong job growth and seven universities and colleges, new companies, most of them from California, are opening offices or expanding existing ones. Samsung Electronics is putting billions into a new semiconductor plant, its second in town, and Advanced Micro Devices is building a new 60-acre campus.
 In the process, they are bringing 70,000 new jobs, pushing office vacancies to a five-year low and keeping the local housing market strong. Over a million square feet of office space is being built, and 22,000 apartments and condominiums are either being planned or are under construction, the highest number since 2000.
 ''Austin is on everyone's radar,'' said Brett Arabie, senior vice president at Oxford Commercial, a real estate firm in Austin. ''You really don't have to a do a sales job.'' 
 Real estate investors are banking that the growth will not be short-lived. In the last three years, Equity Office Properties Trust more than doubled its office space here, to 3.3 million square feet, becoming the city's biggest private landlord. 
 When the Blackstone Group bought Equity for $39 billion last week, it assumed control of all of the trust's properties in Austin. Although the private equity firm has already sold some Equity buildings in New York and Seattle, it is unclear what it will do with the ones in Austin. 
 In September, Equity paid $188 million, or $354 a square foot, for the Frost Bank Tower, making it the most expensive office tower in the state. The race for office space has made Austin the most expensive commercial market in Texas. Sale prices have risen 50 percent since 2002 and now average $181 a square foot here, according to Real Capital Analytics. Prices in Dallas and Houston average $130 and $129, respectively.
 Still, some Austin residents say they are worried that their city will become like any other American metropolis. They have been battling large-scale developments in environmentally sensitive areas, zoning changes for high-rise condo towers and the loss of local stores, music clubs and restaurants. The threatened demolition of Las Manitas Avenue Cafe, a beloved Tex-Mex restaurant downtown here, has become a rallying cry in their fight to ''Keep Austin Weird.''
 Since opening a quarter-century ago, Las Manitas has become a local institution, attracting musicians, politicians and celebrities, like Quentin Tarantino. In its place, White Lodging Services wants to put up three Marriott hotels, with 1,000 rooms, by the summer of 2009. A child care center and a folk arts and crafts store would also be displaced. The restaurant's owners, however, have refused to leave unless something can be done to save it. The two sides are still negotiating. 
 The development battles have focused attention on the city's lack of a downtown master plan and a program to preserve small local businesses there. A fund to help keep the small businesses is being hammered together, and a portion of the money will probably come from development fees. A development plan should be completed by the middle of 2008, according to city officials.
 Downtown development has had its booms and busts. In the late 1990s, the city wanted to turn the area into a ''digital downtown'' and offered more than $45 million in incentives to lure tech companies. It expanded the convention center, built a new City Hall and persuaded Computer Sciences, Vignette and Intel to move there.
 But after the technology industry went into decline six years ago, office vacancies hit a high of 23 percent. Vignette pulled out of a proposed $350 million office complex. Computer Sciences delayed the completion of a three-building campus, and Intel scuttled its 10-story chip design building, leaving a five-story skeleton. After six years, the skeleton is expected to come down later in February to make way for a new federal courthouse.
 This time around, the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce was determined to make sure that the good times lasted. In 2004, the group started a five-year plan to make the economy more diverse. 
 ''There was an outpouring of support from the city, regional government and businesses to get Austin moving,'' said Dave Porter, the chamber's senior vice president for economic development. ''They said, 'We're sick and tired of going through these cycles. Let's do something.' '' 
 The chamber persuaded local companies to stay, and it wooed out-of-state companies. One such business was CompassLearning. Last March, the company left San Diego to make its educational software here with lower expenses and more high-tech employees. Executives had grown tired of battling for the few programmers in town while trying to persuade others to move to San Diego. 
 ''Recruiting people from Nevada and Texas to move to Southern California is a real problem because of the cost of living and quality-of-life issues,'' said Eric Loeffel, president of CompassLearning, which consolidated three offices in Austin. ''I don't have that problem now. Austin is an attraction.''
 Low housing prices have also persuaded others to relocate. Sales of single-family homes climbed 10 percent in 2006, versus 2005, according to the Austin Board of Realtors. The median home price was $174,500, up 6 percent. The median price nationally was $222,000.The housing market has attracted residential developers, and many are pouring into downtown. There are 4,200 apartments and condominiums being planned or under construction there, leading some to wonder if there is enough demand for them. Charles Heimsath, president of Capitol Market Research, estimates there is enough demand to absorb 300 to 400 units a year.
 ''If all those units are built at the same time, I think we would have a glut,'' Mr. Heimsath said. ''But it's extremely unlikely all of these projects will come online at the same time.'' 
 The Novare Group, an Atlanta builder that specializes in high-rise condominiums, is betting at least $145 million that the housing market will remain strong. It chose Austin for its first project outside of the Southeast and eventually plans to put up several mixed-use projects here. 
 Last summer, the developer broke ground on a 44-story downtown tower with 432 condos. Prices will probably range from $190,000 for a one-bedroom to $300,000 for a two-bedroom. Novare is also building two towers with ground-floor stores, 100 hotel rooms and more than 900 condominiums. Several other mixed-use projects are also in the works.
 ''You see a lot of patents, good population growth and perfect demographics,'' said Judd L. Bobilin, Novare's chief development officer. ''Those are all strong indicators things are going to take off.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: New condos are sprouting up in Austin, Tex., near the state Capitol building, left, and around downtown, below. The threatened demolition of Las Manitas Avenue Cafe, above, has led to some protests from residents. (Photographs by Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); SALES FORCE (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (51%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Housing ; Labor; Geographic Profiles; Area Planning and Renewal; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (55%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (53%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (52%); CULLEN/FROST BANKERS INC (51%)

TICKER: SMSN (LSE) (55%); 005930 (KSE) (55%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); RLE (LSE) (53%); BX (NYSE) (52%); CFR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Kristina Shevory

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); DALLAS, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Austin (Tex); California

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



300 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: World Bank in the Docket, Charged With Africa's Woes

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
I have never seen a film quite like ''Bamako,'' Abderrahmane Sissako's seething, complicated and disarmingly beautiful investigation of Africa's social, economic and human crises. The agony of Africa has been explored, and exploited, in several high-profile recent documentaries and fictional features, from ''God Grew Tired of Us,'' about the ''lost boys'' of Sudan, to ''Blood Diamond'' and ''The Constant Gardener.'' ''Bamako'' is something different: a work of cool intelligence and profound anger, a long, dense, argument that is also a haunting visual poem.
 Mr. Sissako, a Malian director whose previous films include ''Life on Earth'' and ''Waiting for Happiness,'' does not try to engage the pity of the audience through sad stories or terrible images. Rather, he tackles the central question of the film -- have the ostensible good intentions of the West, in particular the World Bank and similar institutions, contributed to the impoverishment and demoralization of the continent? -- calmly and systematically, though with evident passion. 
His conceit is at once simple and daring, straightforward and more than a little surreal. In a courtyard in a poor section of Bamako, Mali's capital, magistrates in robes sit at a table, taking notes and shuffling through files as they listen to testimony from witnesses and advocates. On trial is not a person but the World Bank -- which is to say, global capitalism -- itself. 
 Since Mali, a former French colony, follows French judicial customs, and since the French language is well suited to abstraction, the arguments are not always strictly empirical. Allegations of conspiracy are challenged with demands for proof, but the most eloquent testimony comes in the patient, angry speeches of ordinary Africans who step forward to lament what they see as the cruel consequences of debt servicing and privatization: emigration, loss of control over infrastructure and natural resources, rampant political corruption and a precipitously declining standard of living.
 Some of the judges are black, some white, and the two teams of lawyers are also mixed, perhaps to suggest that the stakes in the trial cannot simply be reduced to Africa versus the West. Much of the prosecution's oratory may be provocative to Western ears, and may call forth counterarguments. Surely the misrule and war that menace so much of the continent are not solely the fault of foreign powers and institutions. 
 But such provocation seems to be part of Mr. Sissako's project. He wants the discussion of Africa, which has frequently been conducted in terms established in Washington, London, Paris and Brussels, to include African voices, and not only those of the local elite. He also insists -- by means of his visual techniques as much as through the words of his characters -- that the central human facts of the situation cannot be ignored.
 Like ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' ''Bamako'' can be described as didactic, which simply means that it overtly tries to use film to teach. But there is also another dimension to the movie, an attention to the details of daily life in Bamako that lends it extraordinary richness and gravity. As the lawyers press forward with their eloquence -- occasionally showboating or lapsing into procedural pettifoggery -- the camera wanders through the courtyard and beyond, taking note of the small interactions between men and women, the old and the young, the busy and the idle. People work, read, chat and doze. They listen intently to the trial, which is broadcast over loudspeakers, or else they go about their routines as the speeches play like background music.
 An oblique, delicate and sad story also threads its way quietly through ''Bamako,'' concerning a singer named Mele (Aissa Maiga); her husband, Chaka (Tiecoura Traore); and their young daughter. While their destinies are linked with the themes under consideration in the trial, these characters are not so much symbols or ciphers as reminders of the almost incomprehensible gulf between the general and the particular. 
 A less confident, more facile director might have tried to force a connection between macroeconomics and a single family's plight, but Mr. Sissako's sensibility is too subtle for such shortcuts. Mele and Chaka are beautiful and dignified; Ms. Maiga's face and carriage make you grateful for the existence of cinema. But they are hardly the noble, suffering Africans of well-intentioned Hollywood caricature.
 Not that subtlety is everything. Mr. Sissako is trying to make a point, and to use whatever cinematic means he has at hand to bring it home. The most striking of these is a film within the film, a mock-spaghetti western starring Danny Glover and the Palestinian filmmaker Elia Suleiman that turns the prosecution's brief into a bloody allegory. If you saw gunmen killing women and children on the street, or executing schoolteachers because there were too many, you would be appalled and enraged. 
 Those are Mr. Sissako's sentiments exactly, and his ability to channel them into a fierce and unforgettable piece of political art makes ''Bamako'' necessary viewing. BamakoOpens today in Manhattan. Written (in French and Bambara, with English subtitles) and directed by Abderrahmane Sissako; director of photography, Jacques Besse; edited by Nadia Ben Rachid; production designer, Mahamadou Kouyate; produced by Denis Freyd and Mr. Sissako; released by New Yorker Films. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 118 minutes. This film is not rated. WITH: Aissa Maiga (Mele), Tiecoura Traore (Chaka), Helene Diarra (Saramba), Habib Dembele (Falai), Djeneba Kone (Chaka's Sister), Hamadoun Kassogue (Journalist) and Hameye Mahalmadane (Presiding Judge).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aissa Maiga in ''Bamako,'' directed by Abderrahmane Sissako. (Photo by New Yorker Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); TESTIMONY (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (50%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: A O Scott; Abderrahmane Sissako; Aissa Maiga

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) EARTH (76%) AFRICA (98%); MALI (93%); SUDAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (57%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



301 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: For a Top New York Export, a Title and Sweet Bragging Rights

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Of the dozens of facts and figures about sweets and flowers spilling out around Valentine's Day, the most surprising may be this: According to city officials, chocolate is New York's No. 1 specialty-food export. 
 In a report released yesterday, the mayor's Office of Industrial and Manufacturing Businesses estimated that chocolate makers in the city ship out $234 million worth of their products each year.
At that rate, it said, chocolate ranks ahead of all other categories of specialty foods, like roasted nuts, cereal and beer.
 The report was the office's first comprehensive attempt to measure the size and economic contribution of the food-processing industry, which it describes as ''by far the most stable major manufacturing sector'' in the city. Over all, food making is a $5 billion industry that employs more than 19,000 residents, many of them immigrants who speak little English, the report said.
 Fewer of those jobs are in big plants, which have been disappearing, and more are in niche operations scattered throughout the five boroughs, said Carl Hum, director of the Office of Industrial and Manufacturing Businesses.
 ''I don't think you're going to see large plants in New York City anymore; it's going to be small, entrepreneurial operations like this,'' Mr. Hum said, standing in the compact factory of Vere Chocolate on the sixth floor of a building on 27th Street just west of Broadway.
 Vere (pronounced ver-EE) is one of about 30 chocolatiers in the city, and most of them sell custom-made sweets at premium prices. Among Vere's specialties are dark chocolate wafers containing pink peppercorns, five of which cost $7.50. It also makes truffles for vegans.
 ''We focus on the health benefits of chocolate, as well as the luxury aspect,'' said Mona Johnson, an executive at Vere. James Parrott, chief economist with the Fiscal Policy Institute, which provided analysis for the study, said that New York ''is probably the major port of entry on the East Coast for cocoa and chocolate.'' 
 He added that the relative health of the city's food sector ''has gone unnoticed for a long time, but people should recognize that it is significant.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (77%); MAYORS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOOD MFG (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MEAT FREE DIETS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%) Food; Chocolate

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



302 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Army Giving More Waivers In Recruiting

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
The number of waivers granted to Army recruits with criminal backgrounds has grown about 65 percent in the last three years, increasing to 8,129 in 2006 from 4,918 in 2003, Department of Defense records show.
 During that time, the Army has employed a variety of tactics to expand its diminishing pool of recruits. It has offered larger enlistment cash bonuses, allowed more high school dropouts and applicants with low scores on its aptitude test to join, and loosened weight and age restrictions.
It has also increased the number of so-called ''moral waivers'' to recruits with criminal pasts, even as the total number of recruits dropped slightly. The sharpest increase was in waivers for serious misdemeanors, which make up the bulk of all the Army's moral waivers. These include aggravated assault, burglary, robbery and vehicular homicide.
 The number of waivers for felony convictions also increased, to 11 percent of the 8,129 moral waivers granted in 2006, from 8 percent. 
 Waivers for less serious crimes like traffic offenses and drug use have dropped or remained stable.
 The Army enlisted 69,395 men and women last year.
 While soldiers with criminal histories made up only 11.7 percent of the Army recruits in 2006, the spike in waivers raises concerns about whether the military is making too many exceptions to try to meet its recruitment demands in a time of war. Most felons, for example, are not permitted to carry firearms, and many criminals have at some point exhibited serious lapses in discipline and judgment, traits that are far from ideal on the battlefield.
 The military automatically excludes people who have committed certain crimes. They include drug traffickers, recruits who have more than one felony on their record or people who have committed sexually violent crimes. A felony is defined as a crime that carries a sentence of a year or more in prison.
 Bill Carr, the under secretary of military personnel policy, said the military granted waivers selectively and scrutinized a recruit's full record, the nature of the crime, when it was committed, the degree of rehabilitation and references from teachers, employers, coaches and clergy members.
 In many cases, Mr. Carr said, the applicant may have committed the crime at a young age and then stayed out of trouble. To his knowledge, he said, recruits who are issued moral waivers are not tracked once inside the military.
 ''If the community backs them, we are willing to take a hard look,'' Mr. Carr said, referring to the waiver process, which includes checks of local, state and federal records.
 The majority of moral waivers are for serious misdemeanors, most often committed by juveniles. As Douglas Smith, the public information officer for the Army's recruiting command, said, ''We understand that people make mistakes in their lives and they can overcome those mistakes.''
 Fewer than 3 in 10 people ages 17 to 24 are fully qualified to join the Army. That means they have a high school diploma, have met aptitude test score requirements and fitness levels, and would not be barred for medical reasons, their sexual orientation or their criminal histories. 
 The Defense Department has also expanded its applicant pool by accepting soldiers with criminal backgrounds and medical problems like asthma, high blood pressure and attention deficit disorder, situations that require waivers. Medical waivers have increased 4 percent, totaling 12,313 in 2006. Without waivers, the soldiers would have been barred from service.
 In the last three years, the percentage of moral waivers for all new enlistments in the four services combined has fallen 3 percent, with spikes in the Army and Air Force. In all, 125,525 such waivers have been issued since 2003. The Marine Corps issues far more moral waivers than the Army -- 20,750 in 2006 -- but only because it has a stricter policy on drug use. It requires waivers for one-time marijuana use while the other services do not. Rules on waivers vary by service.
 ''The data is crystal clear; our armed forces are under incredible strain, and the only way that they can fill their recruiting quotas is by lowering their standards,'' said Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight. He has requested more detailed data from the Defense Department on the use of waivers. 
 ''By lowering standards, we are endangering the rest of our armed forces and sending the wrong message to potential recruits across the country,'' Mr. Meehan said. ''Our men and women in uniform represent the best and brightest in America, and we need to keep it that way.'' 
 Aaron Belkin, director of the Michael D. Palm Center, a research institute at the University of California, Santa Barbara, that focuses on the military's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy regarding homosexuality, obtained the most recent data from the Department of Defense.
 Mr. Belkin said the increases in moral waivers in the Army posed a problem only to the extent that the military failed to track these recruits or provide special integration training for them.
 Since more than 125,000 service members with criminal histories have joined the military in the last three years, Mr. Belkin said, ''you have a sizeable population that has been incarcerated and is not used to the same cultural norms as everybody else.'' 
 ''The chance that one of those individuals is going to commit an atrocity or disobey an order is higher,'' he said. ''Many of those individuals can be good soldiers, but in some cases they have special needs. The military should address those needs rather than pretending they don't exist.''
 Recruiters ask potential recruits to reveal whether they have been arrested or convicted of crimes. City, county and state records are checked, as are federal fingerprint databases. The military searches for convictions but also looks at cases that were dismissed, dropped or settled in some way. If someone is found not guilty, depending on the crime, extenuating circumstances are explored, said Maj. Stewart Upton, a Defense Department spokesman. 
 The system is far from foolproof, though. Juvenile records can get tricky because of privacy laws; not every state will release sealed information. And if someone has moved to a different state, the criminal history may not always show up.
 Decisions on the most serious crimes rise up the chain of command, Mr. Smith said. He said the military invested a lot of money training soldiers and tried to screen its recruits to maximize success.
 A General Accounting Office report that looked at attrition from 1990 to 1993 found that service members who were granted moral waivers were more likely to be discharged from the Air Force because of misconduct. But most who were granted moral waivers succeed in completing their term and were more likely to re-enlist.
 It is not uncommon for young criminal offenders to turn to the military, hoping for a waiver, experts say, because their records typically narrow their job opportunities. 
 Beth Asch, a senior economist for the RAND Corporation, said the increase in waivers bore monitoring but was not atypical of what had happened to the military during past recruitment crunches. The moral waivers, Ms. Asch said, particularly for felons, still constitute a relatively small proportion of all enlistments.
 ''It is something that should be tracked with concern,'' she said. ''It shouldn't increase without monitoring but, so far, it is within historic norms.''
 John D. Hutson, dean and president of the Franklin Pierce Law Center in New Hampshire and former judge advocate general of theNavy, said the military must tread carefully in deciding which criminals to accept. There is a reason, he said, why allowing people with criminal histories into the military has long been the exception rather than the rule.
 ''If you are recruiting somebody who has demonstrated some sort of antisocial behavior and then you are a putting a gun in their hands, you have to be awfully careful about what you are doing,'' Mr. Hutson said. ''You are not putting a hammer in their hands, or asking them to sell used cars. You are potentially asking them to kill people.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Feb. 14 about an increase in the number of waivers granted to Army recruits with criminal backgrounds referred imprecisely to the crimes for which the Army grants the bulk of its ''moral waivers.'' While they indeed include serious misdemeanors, they also include felonies such as aggravated assault, burglary, robbery and vehicular homicide. (The error was repeated in an editorial last Tuesday.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Serving With a Record''The number of waivers granted to Army and Marine recruits with criminal backgrounds has risen.Graph shows ''Waivers for Felonies'' figures since 2003 for the Army and Marines.Graph shows ''Waivers for serious misdemeanors'' figures since 2003 for the Army and Marines.(Source by Defense Department)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); FELONIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); BURGLARY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ETHICS (75%); ROBBERY (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); FIREARMS (50%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Crime and Criminals; Ethics; Age, Chronological; Bonuses; Weight; Dropouts; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Lizette Alvarez

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



303 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM ITALY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Breaking All the Rules, With a Shrug and a Sigh

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER; Peter Kiefer and Elisabetta Povoledo contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ROME, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The shrugged shoulder is real, a daily reminder here that part of Italy's charm rests in the fact that it does not much care for rules. Italians can be downright poetic about it, this inclination to dodge taxes, to cut lines, to erect entire neighborhoods without permits or simply to run red lights, while smoking or talking on the phone. 
 ''We undervalue the law of cause and effect,'' said Lisa Tumino, who runs a bed-and-breakfast here near the Vatican. ''We overvalue the law of the universe.'' 
This nugget was mined with a single, simple question: Why were Ms. Tumino, in her beat-up white Nissan, and two dozen other Roman drivers parked on Via delle Fornaci on a recent rainy day when parking there clogged traffic, made the roads more dangerous and was, in fact, illegal? 
 Boiled down, she was saying: No sterile, one-size-fits-all rule book applies here. Italians prefer a more individual justice for their reality and the long history that shaped it. In this case, ancient streets do not allow for adequate parking. 
 But every now and again, Italians wake up to the unpleasant reality that whatever the reasons, however lightly it can be explained, breaking the rules is also part of Italy's malaise. Two weeks ago, a 38-year-old policeman with two children was killed during a riot at a soccer stadium in Sicily -- two years after a law mandating antihooliganism measures was passed and widely ignored.
 Of 31 stadiums surveyed after the killing, only six were found to comply with the law. 
 In this case, a life was lost (though some skeptics noted that compliance might not have saved that life, because the riot happened outside the stadium). But in this and scores of other ways, contempt for rules ends up to be not so charming. 
 Beppe Grillo, the Italian political satirist, keeps a running list on his Web site of members of the Italian Parliament or Italian representatives to the European Parliament, 25 in all, who have been convicted of crimes.
 Just last week, an Italian newspaper reported the existence of a new little town outside Naples, of 50 structures and 435 apartments, for which not a single building permit had been issued. About 31,000 illegal structures reportedly went up in 2005 alone. 
 Just last year, Italy slid into the last place in Europe for direct investment from the United States, with an economy that has struggled for years. Business people complain about a complicated culture of rules -- those broken, as well as those impossible to understand. 
 Paolo Catalfamo, now the managing director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Italy, recalled the six years he spent managing an American investment fund here. 
 ''The issue I spent most of my time on was trying to explain to my headquarters in San Francisco why the rules they received had to be interpreted,'' he said. ''They didn't get the concept that rules don't have one meaning only, that they have many meanings.''
 Like most things in this nation, built on layers of the past, physical and mental, it is not always easy to explain. The standard answer encompasses Italy's fragmented history, of often arbitrary regional rule by foreigners, local nobles and a church with claims of the blessing of God. 
 Some experts contend that the Roman Catholic Church holds no small responsibility: Sins can be forgiven. No single standard exists for salvation; each person's life is weighed on its own. Relatives of the dead can pray for intervention from about 2,500 saints -- a system perfectly calibrated for Italy's individualistic ethos.
 Faced with greedy and hostile authority over many chaotic centuries, it is argued, Italians fell back into the idea that only the family can be trusted. Everything outside the family and clan can be ignored, or tricked into submission. 
 ''We are a people of saints, heroes, improvisers and artful fixers; above all, we are cunning,'' a 1986 study on Italian values concluded, finding the nation's mind-set little changed over time. ''Our cunningness consists of believing that others will take advantage of us if we do not first take advantage of them.''
 The state responded to its own weakness by imposing too many laws. Alexander Stille, a professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism who has written books about Italy, cited figures from several years ago showing that Italy had some 90,000 laws on the books, while France had 7,325 and Germany, 5,587. But Italy's laws are poorly enforced. The country also has the slowest courts in Europe.
 ''The problem is with so many rules, it's almost impossible to obey them all, and they are applied badly,'' he said. ''Italians are almost forced into illegality by a poorly functioning system.''
 While the centrist politicians who ruled Italy since World War II were plenty corrupt, many experts say the antirules culture reached it apex in the political career of Silvio Berlusconi. Mr. Stille argues that Mr. Berlusconi, twice elected prime minister, created a political constituency of tax cheats and people with illegally built houses. 
 ''If you ask me for 50 percent or more in taxes,'' Mr. Berlusconi once said, ''it's unjust, and I feel morally justified, if I have the possibility, to evade them.''
 And, dutifully, after each of his elections, in 1994 and 2000, he introduced amnesties for people with unpaid taxes and illegal houses. 
 In the last two weeks, in the anger over the death at the stadium, some Italians have asked whether anything can be done. The short answer, most experts say, is probably not. 
 The government of the new prime minister, Romano Prodi, is weak. And in Europe, national culture has proved resistant to change, frustrating backers of a tighter, more coherent European Union of 27 idiosyncratic states. 
 Still optimists hold out hope: Mr. Catalfamo, of the Chamber of Commerce, says that even if foreign investment is low, it is easier to do business in Italy now than it was 10 years ago. Others note that the nation's political class is old and cannot hold on forever. Many argue that Italy's young people are different from their parents.
 ''Young Italians are traveling more,'' said Carlo Alberto Morosetti, 44, a business editor at one of Italy's public television stations. ''They surf the Web. They speak more languages.''
 Plus, life here is very good -- the food, the sea, an unhurried way of living, at a standard that may have slipped in recent years but remains remarkably high. The question, with so much so good, is whether there is any will to change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A policeman was killed recently in a riot at a stadium in Sicily despite a law requiring measures against hooliganism. (Photo by Sky Italia via Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); TAX FRAUD (72%); SMOKING (71%); RIOTS (71%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); RELIGION (55%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (50%) Soccer; Law and Legislation; Scofflaws

PERSON: Ian Fisher

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%) ITALY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (73%) Italy; Italy; Sicily; Italy

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



304 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Americas: Ecuador: Congress Approves Referendum On Constitutional Assembly

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
President Rafael Correa won congressional approval of a plan to hold a nationwide referendum on convening an assembly to rewrite Ecuador's Constitution. The measure was approved by a vote of 57 to 1 in the 100-seat Congress after opposition legislators declined to vote. Mr. Correa, left, a leftist economist educated in the United States and Belgium, says a new constitution is needed to weaken the influence of traditional political parties, which have ousted presidents with ease over the last decade. The country's top election court set April 15 for the referendum, a court member told a local radio station, according to Reuters. SIMON ROMERO 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (93%); APPROVALS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (83%) Referendums; Constitutions

PERSON: Rafael (Pres) Correa

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (68%) Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



305 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Says It Can't Handle Cost Overruns on No. 7 Project

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The new leadership of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority signaled yesterday that it had deep concerns over a deal with the city to build a $2.1 billion extension of the No. 7 subway line, saying the authority did not have the money to pay for possible cost overruns or other additional expenses. 
 ''It is M.T.A.'s position that we are under no legal obligation to absorb any additional costs or overruns,'' Elliot G. Sander, the new chief executive, wrote in a letter to Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat. He was responding to a letter from Mr. Brodsky expressing concerns that the project could exceed its budget. Mr. Brodsky made Mr. Sander's letter public yesterday. 
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Sander said he would not grant any contracts to proceed with the work until the financial issues were hammered out. 
 Under the project, the No. 7 line, whose western terminus is Times Square, would be extended to the Javits Convention Center on the West Side. The city and the authority signed a deal in September in which the city agreed to pay for the project and the authority agreed to be in charge of design and construction. The city, however, capped its contribution at $2.1 billion. 
 Mr. Sander said the authority's long-term spending plan for major projects was already handicapped by widespread cost increases. 
 ''At this point our position is that if there are cost overruns, we're not in a financial position to be able to assume those,'' Mr. Sander said. He said paying for any part of the No. 7 extension could jeopardize other projects, like the Second Avenue subway, a Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central Terminal, and maintenance of the transit system. 
 He said other unbudgeted costs had to be considered, including a projected $150 million for new subway cars needed to run on the extended line. Mr. Sander, who inherited the deal when he took over the authority in January, said he spoke yesterday to Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, to explain the authority's position. 
 ''We want to get it done, but we have to work through these financial issues,'' Mr. Sander said.
 Mr. Doctoroff said the discussion was premature because there was no indication that the project would exceed its budget. ''Our view is that we certainly had an understanding and that the city would be responsible for all costs up to $2.1 billion and that the M.T.A. would bear the responsibility for costs above that,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We're going to sit down and talk, but our view is, the deal is the deal.'' Both Mr. Doctoroff and Mr. Sander said they believed that the project would go forward.
 Mr. Brodsky, the chairman of an Assembly committee that oversees the authority, said in an interview he feared that hidden costs could harm the authority's bottom line. 
 ''If we keep to the basic principle, which is the city will pay and the M.T.A. will build, we'll be O.K.,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''But right now there are hundreds of millions to almost a billion dollars of costs that the M.T.A. would probably have to absorb that would endanger the Second Avenue line, the East Side link and other parts of the capital program, and that is simply unacceptable.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Transit Systems; Subways ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: William Neuman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



306 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agency Violated Law In Seed Case, Judge Rules

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
A federal judge ruled yesterday that the Agriculture Department violated the law by failing to adequately assess possible environmental impacts before approving Monsanto's genetically engineered alfalfa. 
 Judge Charles R. Breyer of Federal District Court in San Francisco said the agency had been ''cavalier'' in deciding that a full environmental impact statement was not needed because the potential environmental and economic effects of the crop were not significant.
Plaintiffs in the case -- some alfalfa seed companies and environmental and farm advocacy groups -- said they would push to stop the sales and planting of the alfalfa, which is resistant to Monsanto's Roundup herbicide. 
 Joseph Mendelson, legal director of the Center for Food Safety, a Washington advocacy group that organized the lawsuit, said the decision by itself could block commercial sales of genetically engineered alfalfa seeds but that the plaintiffs would ask for an injunction to make sure. Judge Breyer asked the parties to meet and propose remedies to him by Feb. 26. 
 Christopher R. Horner, a spokesman for Monsanto, said the company had not seen the decision but thought it would not affect its business. Monsanto was not named in the suit, which was filed against the Agriculture Department. 
 Calls to several spokesmen for the Agriculture Department were not returned. A recording in the department's communications office said the government closed early yesterday because of expected bad weather in Washington. 
 A federal judge in Washington said last week that the Agriculture Department had not done adequate assessments before approving field trials of genetically engineered grass. And last August a federal judge in Hawaii, in a case involving field trials of crops engineered to produce pharmaceuticals, ruled that the Agriculture Department had not adequately assessed the possible impact on endangered species. 
 Mr. Mendelson of the Center for Food Safety said yesterday's decision could set a precedent that would require the Agriculture Department to do full impact statements for other biotech crops before they are approved. 
 The Roundup Ready alfalfa was deregulated by the Agriculture Department in June 2005, meaning it could be grown outside of field trials. It was the first approval in years of a new genetically engineered crop. Because alfalfa is the fourth most widely planted crop in the United States, the action presented a big opportunity for Monsanto. 
 The Agriculture Department had first done an environmental assessment, which concluded that a longer and more detailed environmental impact statement was not needed. This was in part, the agency said, because the implanted gene conferring herbicide resistance was harmless to people and livestock. 
 But Judge Breyer, in his 20-page opinion, said that the agency had not adequately considered the possibility that the gene could be transferred by pollen to organic or conventional alfalfa, hurting sales of organic farmers or exports to countries like Japan that did not want the genetically engineered variety. 
 ''An action which potentially eliminates or at least greatly reduces the availability of a particular plant -- here, nonengineered alfalfa -- has a significant effect on the human environment,'' he wrote. 
 The judge also said that the Agriculture Department had too easily dismissed the possibility that planting Roundup-resistant alfalfa would lead to wider use of Roundup, which in turn would contribute to the development of weeds resistant to the popular herbicide. That is particularly a risk, he said, because many other crops like soybeans and corn are also resistant to Roundup, which is known generically as glyphosate. 
 ''One would expect that some federal agency is considering whether there is some risk to engineering all of America's crops to include the gene that confers resistance to glyphosate,'' he wrote. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CROP RESEARCH (89%); HERBICIDES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (89%); VERDICTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (75%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); FOOD SAFETY (74%) Alfalfa; Genetics and Heredity; Seeds; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Alfalfa

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Agriculture Department; Monsanto Co; Center for Food Safety

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (92%)

PERSON: Charles R (Judge) Breyer; Joseph Mendelson; Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



307 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: For 5th Year, Trade Gap Hits Record

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The United States ran a record trade deficit in 2006 for the fifth consecutive year, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday in an announcement that quickly reignited the dispute between the Bush administration and Democrats over the value of past and future deals lowering trade barriers.
 The bureau said that the trade deficit, or gap between what the United States sells abroad and what it imports, reached a new high of $763.3 billion last year, a 6.5 percent increase over the year before. The deficit was fueled by the continuing American need for foreign oil and imports of consumer goods from China and other countries.
The record trade deficit was no surprise, since it had been foreshadowed in monthly figures over the last year. But in the current tense political climate in Washington, it was seized upon by both the Bush administration and its critics. It also seemed certain to become a factor in the accelerating presidential race.
 Leading Bush administration officials noted that although the deficit had reached new levels, exports of American products were also growing at record rates, in many cases to the countries with which the United States had signed trade deals in the last six years. 
 ''Our exports for the last year are up by nearly 13 percent,'' Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary, said in a telephone interview. ''We've said all along that our strategy is to grow exports and ensure that companies know about the trade agreements we have, rather than a protectionist strategy of cutting off imports.''
 Mr. Gutierrez, who interrupted a trip to India to discuss the trade figures, is one of several officials pushing Congress to approve pending trade deals with Panama, Colombia and Peru, and to extend President Bush's authority to negotiate future trade deals and get an up-or-down vote in Congress for them. That authority expires June 30.
 Democrats used the latest trade numbers to demand what the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, called ''a new direction'' in trade policies, placing more emphasis on opening foreign markets to American goods, protecting American products from piracy and counterfeiting, and helping American industry become more competitive. 
 ''The consequences of these persistent and massive trade deficits include not only failed businesses, displaced workers, lower real wages, and rising inequality, but also permanent devastation of our communities,'' Ms. Pelosi said in a letter to Mr. Bush signed by other House Democrats.
 Ms. Pelosi and the House Democratic leaders said they supported future trade deals, including efforts to conclude a global trade accord in talks sponsored by the World Trade Organization, but that these deals needed to include more-open markets abroad and efforts at home to help workers displaced by imports.
 The Democratic response from the House was notable, however, for its basic embrace of the principle of negotiating trade deals and its openness to renewing the president's negotiating authority, which is known as fast track because of the provision allowing for one up-or-down vote.
 A much tougher stance was taken by consumer, environmental and labor groups. They called on Congress to let the president's negotiating authority expire and to reject the various pending trade deals and the philosophy of free trade that led to past accords like the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, with Mexico and Canada.
 ''The 2006 midterm elections showed that members of Congress bear the political liability for this failed trade policy,'' said Lori Wallach, director of Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch, a group affiliated with the consumer advocate Ralph Nader. She called on Congress to respond by ''permanently burying'' the fast-track approach.
 Put together, these statements suggested that a gap remains among liberals and within the Democratic Party in Congress foreshadowing what could be a similar disagreement among Democratic presidential candidates over the issue of trade. 
 Since the election in November, in which Democrats captured Congress, many lawmakers predicted that trade deals negotiated by the Bush administration would have a harder time winning approval. Several Democrats, like Sherrod Brown, now a senator from Ohio, ran on platforms promising to block trade deals.
 But since arriving in January, several Democratic leaders have gone out of their way to say that they would be receptive to approving trade deals, and to giving Mr. Bush extended authority to negotiate them, provided the administration agrees to certain provisions, particularly providing help for workers hurt by cheap imports.
 Many political analysts note, for instance, that the Democrats raised considerable funds for their election victory last year on Wall Street and among figures in the chip-making, computer and entertainment industries of the West Coast, all of which depend on export markets for their products.
 On the other hand, Richard Trumka, secretary treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said Tuesday that the new trade figures meant that extending trade negotiating authority was ''the last thing we need to do'' and that the labor organization would fight ''any extension'' this year. His comments thus set up a possible collision between labor and the Democratic leadership in Congress.
 Both Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and Representative Charles B. Rangel, a New York Democrat who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, have said they want to work with the Bush administration on future trade deals.
 The trade statistics Tuesday came as the administration is juggling a three-part challenge in trade. The most immediate is the future of three bilateral trade deals with Peru, Colombia and Panama. 
 The second is overextending the president's negotiating authority, which in turn depends on a third issue, the possible conclusion of negotiations on a global trade deal in the so-called Doha round, named after the capital of Qatar, where talks began several years ago.
 Whether Congress approves any trade deals will probably depend on the Bush administration's willingness to incorporate other elements into trade deals, including requirements that trading partners adhere to certain labor standards accepted by the International Labor Organization, a division of the United Nations.
 Negotiations are under way now over whether the administration is willing to add labor standards and also possibly environmental standards, getting trading partners to live up to certain environmental laws in the deals involving Peru, Colombia and Panama.
 Democrats say that if deals can be worked out on environmental and labor standards, and on helping workers who might lose their jobs, they could become a ''template'' for future deals that might win favor even in a Democratic-led Congress.
 Most Democrats are expected to oppose such trade deals, but administration vote-counters are hoping that as many as 90 or 100 Democrats might support them in concert with most Republicans and help win Congressional approval.
 Mr. Gutierrez said the new trade figures showed the importance of approving these deals. He said that the dozen or so countries with which the United States had negotiated bilateral trade deals since 2006 accounted for 40 percent of American exports, even though they represented only 7 percent of the world economy.
 A separate deal negotiated with Central American countries, which was barely approved by Congress in 2005, led to a surge in exports, Mr. Gutierrez said. Commerce Department officials said that the new trade figures showed that exports grew faster than imports last year forthe first time in a decade. The reason the deficit still grew in the last year, they said, was because exports were growing from a lower base.
 Commerce officials say that American companies are selling high technology machinery, airplanes, automobile parts, precious metals, farm goods and computer chips but that these items are overwhelmed by imports of oil and inexpensive consumer goods, from shoes to clothing to automobiles. 
 Another argument made by the Bush administration is that the loss of American jobs is not just because of cheap imports but because technology changes have let manufacturers produce goods with fewer people.Paulson's New Aide on ChinaBy Bloomberg News
 The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., has named Alan Holmer, a former drug industry lobbyist and trade official under President Ronald Reagan, as the department's top aide on dealing with China.
 Mr. Holmer will be the lead organizer of the United States-China Strategic Economic Dialogue, a twice-a-year process started in December. The appointment yesterday follows the Feb. 2 decision to leave by Timothy D. Adams, the Treasury's under secretary for international affairs. The second meeting of the China dialogue is scheduled for May in Washington. 
 Mr. Holmer retired as president and chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America in January 2005.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imported goods in Chinatown in Manhattan. The gap between what the United States sells abroad and what it imports reached a record last year. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.October 2006Imports: $186.72 billionExports: 125.54Balance: -$ 61.18Graphs track the following from the end of 2005 through 2006: ImportsExportsTrade deficit (12-month moving avg.)(Source by Commerce Department)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENSUS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (64%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Census Bureau

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (77%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); PERU (79%); PANAMA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



308 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Odds Are, They'll Know '08 Winner

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
On Election Night a few months ago, Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers gave a small party for neighbors and colleagues at their row house in Center City in Philadelphia. They connected their television to a projector, served beer and pizza and watched the returns come in. 
 The party went strong until almost midnight, when the results started to seem clear. The Democrats had won the House of Representatives, according to the television networks, but would apparently fall short of capturing the Senate. On MSNBC, Chris Matthews was saying that ''it looks good'' for Senator George Allen, the incumbent in Virginia, whose victory would have ensured a Republican majority. On Fox News, Michelle Malkin reported that a number of blogs had declared Mr. Allen to be the winner.
So Ms. Stevenson and a couple of the guests said they were going to call it a night. But Mr. Wolfers, who had his laptop open in front of him, suggested that everyone stick around a little longer. In addition to the television, he had been following Intrade.com, a Web site that allows traders to bet on politics and other current events, and he noticed that the posted odds of the Republicans keeping the Senate were suddenly falling. 
 Those odds are based on the collective opinion of the traders, just as most any market price is, and at 11:50 p.m. they gave the Republicans an 85 percent chance of holding on. At midnight, the odds were down to 65 percent. Around 12:25 a.m., they fell below 50 percent. 
 A little before 1 a.m. -- with the Intrade odds at 37 percent -- CNN broadcast a live interview with John Aravosis, a liberal activist. ''We pretty much know where we are,'' Mr. Aravosis said. ''The Dems have the House. Republicans have the Senate. And, you know, I don't think that's going to change by morning.'' 
 It did change, of course. Mr. Allen soon conceded, and the Democrats began planning their majority. Mr. Wolfers, an economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, sitting in the comfort of his living room, had been a better pundit than most of the professionals on television, thanks to a Web site that is based in Ireland.
 Over the last few years, Intrade -- with headquarters in Dublin, where the gambling laws are loose -- has become the biggest success story among a new crop of prediction markets. The world's largest steel maker, Arcelor Mittal, now runs an internal market allowing its executives to predict the price of steel. Best Buy has started a market for employees to guess which DVDs and video game consoles, among other products, will be popular. Google and Eli Lilly have similar markets. The idea is to let a company's decision-makers benefit from the collective, if often hidden, knowledge of their employees. 
 But there's a broader point here, too. For a couple of centuries now, long before Intrade or even the Internet existed, financial markets have been making it easier to bet on what the future will bring. 
 In the mid-1800s, contracts tied to the future price of wheat, pigs and other commodities began to change hands. In 1972, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange introduced futures for foreign exchange rates. Treasury bonds tied to the future rate of inflation came along in the 1990s, and last year, the Merc began selling contracts based on the direction of house prices in 10 big metropolitan areas. 
 In every case, the market price reflects the sum of the traders' knowledge -- about the extent of the housing bubble in Los Angeles, for instance, or the likely size of next year's wheat crop. This market price usually ends up being a more reliable forecaster than any individual, even an expert, can be. In a nifty 2004 book, James Surowiecki gave the phenomenon a catch phrase: ''The Wisdom of Crowds.''
 N. Gregory Mankiw, a former adviser to President Bush, who has written about Intrade on his blog, explains it this way: ''Everybody has information from their own little corner of the universe, and they'd like to know the information from every other corner of the universe. What these markets do is provide a vehicle that reflects all that information.''
 Once traders have the information, they can react to it by tweaking their portfolios. Corporate executives can do the same with their business plans, and Federal Reserve officials can do it with interest rate policy. In his speeches, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, often talks about what forward-looking bonds are saying about people's inflation expectations. 
 As with most changes, this one comes with at least one big downside. The new market-based crystal balls seem to have made investors confident enough about the future to take on riskier and riskier positions, and some of them are almost certain to end badly. 
 But there are also enormous benefits to the new markets. Armed with better information, companies are less likely to be forced into a sharp cut in production and Mr. Bernanke is less likely to raise interest rates unexpectedly. Partly as a result, recessions now seem to occur about once a decade, rather than once every five years. 
 Intrade, in other words, isn't just an entertaining Web site. It is the latest iteration of one of the most important economic developments of modern times. 
 It has also been remarkably clairvoyant. Heading into the 2004 presidential election, Intrade's odds correctly forecast the outcome in all 50 states. The 2008 election is far enough in the future that the current odds probably aren't as telling. But they are still worth considering, especially because early odds have had a better forecasting record than early polls in recent years, says Mr. Wolfers, who spends much of his time studying prediction markets. 
 The odds are starting to get more attention from political buffs as well. When Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, was asked after a recent dinner speech what he thought about the campaign, he began reciting Intrade's betting line.
 Intrade now makes John McCain the favorite for the Republican nomination, followed by Rudy Giuliani. For the Democrats, Hillary Rodham Clinton has about a 50 percent chance of being the nominee, more than twice as much as anyone else. The most counterintuitive forecast is that Mrs. Clinton is given a better-than-even chance of winning the general election if she is nominated, while Mr. McCain -- perhaps because he wants to keep fighting the war in Iraq -- is not.
 The main point, though, is that however the numbers change over the next two years, people whose business depends on politics would be foolish to ignore Intrade again. Knowing Intrade's track record, wouldn't you watch the television network that included the odds in its 2008 Election Night coverage? And if none of the networks did, wouldn't you turn to your laptop?
 Becoming President: 26Party Nomination: 49John EdwardsCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 9Party Nomination: 13Al GoreCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 7Party Nomination: 9Barack ObamaCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 13Party Nomination: 20Rudolph GiulianiCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 14Party Nomination: 24John McCainCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 16Party Nomination: 37Mitt RomneyCHANCE OF: 
 Becoming President: 9Party Nomination: 19Example: If you buy a contract tied to Hillary Clinton's winning the Democratic nomination for $4.90, you will be paid $10 if she is the nominee and nothing if she is not.Note: Prices as of noon Eastern time Tuesday.(Source by Intrade)(pg. C6) 

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Political Futures''Odds that the Republicans would keep control of the Senate, over the course of Election Night 2006, from the betting site Intrade.Graph tracks the odds from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m.(pg. C1)Chart: ''Odds on the Candidates''Intrade, an online trading market, sells contracts tied to the outcome of various events. The price of these contracts indicates the odds that traders place on the outcome occurring.Hillary ClintonCHANCE OF: 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FUTURES (83%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (71%); GAMING (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (63%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (50%) Futures and Options Trading; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2008; Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (61%); GOOGLE INC (50%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Intrade

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (61%); MT (PAR) (61%); MT (NYSE) (61%); MT (AMS) (61%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); LEL (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (61%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) David Leonhardt; Hillary Rodham Clinton; Rudolph W Giuliani; John (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2007



309 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Not Enough Snow for You? Talk to Your Father

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

DATELINE: Greenwich, Conn. 

 BODY:
THE snowmaking conditions were terrific at the Heaven house a few Sundays ago: it was 17 degrees and very dry, a felicitous temperature-to-humidity ratio that would hold well into the following week. Marshall Heaven, a cheerful 53-year-old real estate developer in a red ski parka, had had his two snow guns running since the previous Friday; the 15-foot Dr. Seussian heap of snow that occupies the Heavens' sloping backyard each year from late November to early April was looking particularly impressive. 
 Gabby, a 9-month-old cockapoo, was flopping about on and in it, her blond fur crusted with ice. Alexandra Heaven, 4 1/2, was bright pink in the face and just about to her limit; she had been sledding nonstop for two hours. Her mother, Mary Ann, 52, a former television reporter and producer who now works with her husband, scooped up both child and dog and hauled them inside for a warm-up.
 For some, Valentine's Day is much too late in the year for their first snow. Since Nature can no longer keep to her early deadlines, men like Mr. Heaven (snowmaking, like barbecuing, is still a gendered hobby) are taking matters into their own hands, and creating their own seasons, at least when it comes to winter. 
 Snowmaking, since the mid-1960s the provenance of ski resorts and, more recently, some party planners, has gone domestic. 
 Companies like Snow Economics, a maker and inventor of resort-quality snow machines in Natick, Mass. -- from which Mr. Heaven bought his two Backyard Blizzard snowmakers a few years ago -- have been selling home snowmakers since 2000. 
 Snow at Home, a Cheshire, Conn., company run by Matt Pittman and Ken Jackie, has been shipping snowmakers for use in backyards from New Jersey to New Zealand for four years; sales are now ''in the hundreds,'' Mr. Pittman said. 
 ''We've hit every state but Hawaii,'' he said last week.
 Mr. Pittman, who was speaking by cellphone, was with a client near Morristown, N.J., helping to put the finishing touches on what was essentially the client's personal resort, he said: a 200-foot-long slope behind the house with a warming hut at its foot and two snow machines at its peak. The previous summer, trees had been cleared and water and power lines buried below the soil's frost line, ready to hook up to two of Mr. Pittman's machines. ''New Jersey is a big area for us,'' Mr. Pittman said. ''There's no snow, and lots of disposable income.''
 David Young, 38, who owns two Snow at Home machines, lives 15 minutes by car from Atlantic City; he has been making snow in his backyard for three years. Early last week he had two feet of snow; one day last week he took a personal day from his boat repair business to make snow all day, he said. 
 ''It's hard to stop when the weather is right,'' he said. ''You can set the guns up and go to sleep, but I like to go and mess with them. My neighbors are going to work at the casinos at 3 a.m. and I'm out there, too, messing with the guns. I just like being out in it. It's really hard to turn the guns off; it looks so good piling up.''
 When real snow falls, Mr. Young said, ''my daughter thinks I made it.''
 When you mix real snow with machine snow, Mr. Heaven said, the real stuff, which is lighter and fluffier, falls to the side and creates a cushion. ''It's great for when the kids are playing king of the mountain,'' he said. ''They have this soft powder to fall in.''
 Those who make snow are proud of their powder. They speak passionately about its stacking qualities (it is denser than snow that starts out in a cloud) and bandy about terms like nucleation and wet bulb temperature. Forums like snowguns.com, which has over 3,700 members, show a subculture as much into the process of snowmaking as the result of it. There are discussions about how to build your own rope tow and lengthy back-and-forths about the attributes of various snow wand nozzles. 
 Still, size matters to a snowmaker. Mr. Young dreams of a ''bigger vertical,'' he said. ''Everyone who makes snow wants a larger hill.'' 
 Mr. Heaven dreams of a commercial machine, an 18-nozzle gun that would make a hill like his in an hour, he said. ''It's a serious commitment,'' he said, and it would require a concrete platform to mount the thing, which costs about $30,000. ''It's a whole different story,'' he said, indicating that his wife was not yet on board with a system upgrade.
 ''It's his avocation,'' Ms. Heaven said. ''And I indulge him in it, the same way he indulges me by letting me have a pink house.'' 
 The Heavens' house, a late-19th-century carriage house they doubled the size of last year, is a pink-and-white gingerbread-style confection that cries out for the sort of frosty ground and tree cover Mr. Heaven's machines can make. Inside, there are pink Aubusson rugs and gilded walls; a ceiling fresco featuring many fat putti is in the works for the front hall; and a pair of Italian gilded angel wings sits in a wall niche made just for them. 
 ''Mount Heaven was a no-brainer,'' said Ms. Heaven, referring to her name for the snow hill her husband made, and pointing to the peak from her daughter's bedroom window upstairs. ''You've got a lot to work with when you have a name like ours.''
 As global warming continues to wreak havoc with the weather, snowmakers impose a nostalgic order -- albeit one that does nothing to help the situation, since snowmaking runs on electricity (and water, of course, one and a half to six gallons a minute, depending on the size of the machine). Charles Santry, president of Snow Economics, said his Backyard Blizzard Sport machine, which has a 1.5 horsepower engine, can use up to 1,650 watts. A clothes dryer guzzles more power, but snowmaking is certainly not going to win any green awards.
 In fact, snowmaking requires ''traditional'' winter weather -- that is, temperatures well below freezing. And last year New York and Connecticut were two of the five states that posted their warmest Decembers on record. 
 Mount Heaven melted twice that month, Mr. Heaven said ruefully. 
 ''I love the cold,'' he said. ''I love winter.''
 Indeed, Mr. Heaven loves all weather, whatever form it comes in. (In high school he wrote a weather column for the school newspaper called Heaven's Heaven.) He was happily monitoring this week's event. 
 ''It's a complicated storm,'' he said yesterday, reporting no melting whatsoever on Mount Heaven. ''But even if it rains, we won't suffer any snowpack loss. The mound is so dense it will just firm it up more.''
 Mr. Heaven turned his guns on again yesterday afternoon. He was eager to make more snow.

GRAPHIC: Photos: EVERY DAY A BLIZZARD -- David Young, above, operates a snowmaking machine at home in New Jersey. When real snow falls, he said, ''my daughter thinks I made it.'' (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
KING OF THE HILL -- Neighbors enjoy sledding at David Young's house, right
children scale ''Mount Heaven,'' above, at the Connecticut home of Marshall Heaven, who wants to buy a $30,000 commercial snowmaker. His wife is skeptical. (Photos by Above, John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times
 below, Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); WEATHER (78%); RESORTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Weather; Snow and Snowstorms

PERSON: Penelope Green

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



310 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Whimsy, Pessimism and 'Lady Chatterley' in Berlin

BYLINE: By A.O. SCOTT

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Filmmakers, film-industry types and the journalists who love them often refer to something called the festival circuit, a sequence of hectic, semi-glamorous events that crowd the calendar and circle the globe. But it might be more accurate to speak of a festival system: a complicated, ever-expanding web in which the interests of commerce, art and criticism converge, sometimes in harmony and sometimes at cross-purposes. 
 Any festival is contingent, ephemeral, something of a pseudo-event. When it is over, there is a brief flurry of evaluation -- Toronto was strong this year, Sundance was disappointing, whatever -- but those judgments tend to fade as the movies themselves, the ostensible point of the whole enterprise, make their way in the world, or into oblivion, or onto the next festival. 
So the 57th Berlinale, as the festival here is known, might best be thought of as an average festival. Not only because the films were generally so-so, with a few outright disasters balancing some high-quality work, but also because it seemed to typify what a film festival is these days. Once a bastion of difficulty and high seriousness -- an identity that suited an event held in midwinter in a city with a vexed, often grim history -- the Berlinale, which began last Thursday and concludes with awards on Sunday -- has grown into something bigger, more varied and perhaps less distinctive. 
 At the start of this century its center of gravity shifted into a gleaming complex of shopping malls and corporate towers in Potsdamer Platz, previously the no-man's land between East and West. More recently the festival itself has taken place alongside (and sometimes in the shadow of) the European Film Market, a bazaar of buying, selling and deal making that takes place a few blocks from the Berlinale Palast, where the competition screenings are held.
 The festival itself also serves as an important steppingstone for Hollywood films seeking entree into the lucrative European marketplace. ''The Good German,'' ''The Good Shepherd'' and ''Notes on a Scandal'' -- all released in the United States in the December Oscar rush (where none of them found much traction) -- were shown in competition. ''Letters From Iwo Jima,'' a best-picture Oscar nominee, was a noncompetitive official selection, as was ''300,'' a special-effects-heavy rendering of the battle of Thermopylae directed by Zack Snyder. That film will open in America soon, and so will the festival's opening choice, ''La Vie en Rose,'' Olivier Dahan's warmly received biography of Edith Piaf. 
 It is customary to sort commercial movies into genres: the thriller, the biopic, the romantic comedy and so on. But there are also films, often playing the sidebar sections like Panorama and Forum in Berlin, that belong to genres peculiar to the festival system. These are sometimes easier to recognize than to describe. 
 In any given festival there is usually at least one movie that chronicles a time of political trauma from the point of view of a child. ''The Year My Parents Went on Vacation,'' a Brazilian competition film directed by Cao Hamburger and set in 1970 (when Brazil, ruled by a military dictatorship, won the World Cup), fits the bill nicely. In addition to politics and soccer, it has gentle sentiment, the stirrings of youthful sexuality and a grouchy, warmhearted old man. 
 You will also tend to find instances of the stubborn-peasant landscape film, with stately rhythms and long silences, in which natural beauty compensates for harsh stories of deprivation and struggle. ''Tuya's Wedding,'' shot in the steppes of Mongolia and directed by Wang Quan'an (and shown in the Berlinale competition) is a perfect specimen. It tells the story of a woman, Tuya (Yu Nan), whose husband has been disabled while digging a well, leaving her to tend their flock of sheep by herself. Economic necessity forces her to seek a second husband, and her courtship is both gently comical and, ultimately, wrenchingly sad.
 The current blossoming of Asian cinema -- in China, in South Korea and now in Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia -- has led to some interesting cross-pollinations. Quiet, oblique dramas of urban alienation, something of a Taiwanese specialty in the 1990s, have become a hallmark of the resurgent Korean cinema. 
 Hong Sang-soo, whose ''Woman on the Beach'' landed in the Panorama here after stops in Toronto, New York and other festivals, is perhaps the master of this style, and something of his influence was evident in ''Ad Lib Night,'' directed by Lee Yoon-ki and shown in the Forum. In it a young woman is approached on a Seoul street by three young men who, after some initial misunderstanding, persuade her to accompany them back to their village, where she pretends to be the long-lost daughter of a dying man. 
 But all is never quiet on the South Korean front. Park Chan-Wook, the critically beloved author of superviolent spectacles like ''Oldboy'' and ''Lady Vengeance,'' arrived here with a movie called ''I'm a Cyborg, but That's O.K..'' I guess it is O.K., and in any case it represents something of a departure for Mr. Park, a foray into whimsy set in a mental hospital populated by charming nuts.
 ''Cyborg'' is -- sometimes delightfully, sometimes gratingly -- a determinedly crazy movie, which may constitute a genre of its own. Mr. Park's was hardly the craziest Korean movie in the festival. That would have been E. J-Yong's ''Dasepo Naughty Girls,'' a frenzied high-school romp described by its director, in remarks before a packed house at the Zoo Palast, as ''a teenage movie, a comedy, a musical, a mystery, a horror movie, all in one film.'' 
 The European offerings were on the whole much more sober. (Though to be fair, just about any movie this side of ''Borat'' could be described as more sober than ''Dasepo,'' which is like a less restrained ''Strangers With Candy.'') Quite a few of them were concerned with the social, economic and cultural divisions that trouble this recently, and still incompletely unified, continent. 
 A kind of pessimist realism, holding on to the old humanist faith of the postwar years, but far less confident in the possibility of progress, has become something of a default style in Northern Europe. Maria Speth's ''Madonnas,'' a German-language film about an aimless, reckless young mother of five trying to get her life back together, might have been a Sundance film (it has some resemblance to ''SherryBaby'') but for the English subtitles and the decidedly nonredemptive ending. 
 A film from Croatia, ''Armin,'' directed by Ognjen Svilicic, also fits the mold of downbeat European realism, though its story of a father accompanying his son from their hometown in Bosnia to a movie audition in Zagreb is funny and warm as well as sorrowful.
 My point is not that these movies are interchangeable, or that their similarities betray a lack of imagination on the part of their makers. A genre is not a formula but a paradigm, an endlessly variable model that can be adapted to different temperaments and circumstances. Directorial acumen, agile screenwriting and sensitive acting distinguish the run-of-the-mill from the genuinely interesting. 
 In the films I saw in Berlin this year -- the ones I liked enough to write home about, in any case -- the quality of the acting often made the difference. Thus Sam Garbarski's film in competition, ''Irina Palm,'' about a British woman who turns to sex work in order to finance a lifesaving operation for her grandson, would have been yet another British naughty-granny comedy were it not for Marianne Faithfull's enigmatic, deadpan and remarkably funny lead performance. 
 ''The Counterfeiters,'' a German-language Holocaust movie by the Austrian director Stefan Ruzowitzky, would have seemed much more glib without the banty, combative charisma of Karl Markovics, who plays a Jewish counterfeiter conscripted into a Nazi plot to forge large quantities of British and American currency. And the bracing pleasures of Andre Techine's imperfect but powerful ''Witnesses'' owe a great deal to the work of a cast that includes Emmanuelle Beart and Sami Bouajila.
 Every constituency in the festival system has its own needs and desires. The distributors want products to fill out their release slates; the sellers want buyers; the stars want privacy (or else attention); the jury (led this year by Paul Schrader, whose new film, ''The Walker,'' was shown out of competition) longs for a masterpiece and hopes for consensus. And the critics? We want above all to be surprised, to feel a sense of discovery.
 The Panorama obliged this critic with ''Lady Chatterley,'' a French-language adaptation, directed by Pascale Ferran, of an early version of D. H. Lawrence's once-scandalous novel. At first glance the movie, nearly three hours long, seemed likely to belong to yet another familiar genre: the tasteful literary costume pageant. But Ms. Ferran and her two lead actors -- the relative newcomer Marina Hinds and a complete unknown named Jean-Louis Couilloc'h -- do more than merely honor Lawrence's preoccupation with sex, class and the natural world. They refresh his spirit and restore his modernity. 
 Every frame of the movie seems alive: with risk, with pleasure, with a sensuality that is both wild and intelligent. Already acclaimed in France, ''Lady Chatterley'' should, if there is any justice, break free of the festival circuit, even as it is precisely the kind of movie you come to a festival hoping to see. The kind that restores -- at least until the next festival -- your faith in the system.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the red carpet for the opening night of the Berlin Film Festival. (Photo by Axel Schmidt/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. E1)
''Lady Chatterley,'' with Marina Hinds and Jean-Louis Couilloc'h, restores modernity to the D. H. Lawrence novel on which it is based. (Photo by Maia Films)
Karl Markovics, right, plays a Jewish counterfeiter conscripted into a Nazi forgery plot in Stefan Ruzowitzky's ''Counterfeiters.'' (Photo by Berlinale, via Associated Press)
 Michel Joelsas in ''The Year My Parents Went on Vacation,'' set in 1970, when Brazil, ruled by a military dictatorship, won the World Cup. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DRAMA FILMS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); WRITERS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); WORLD WAR II (64%); RETAILERS (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%) Motion Pictures; Berlinale Film Festival

PERSON: A O Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



311 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Help Not Wanted

BYLINE: By Moises Naim. 
Moises Naim, the editor in chief of Foreign Policy magazine, is the author of ''Illicit: How Smugglers, Traffickers and Copycats Are Hijacking the Global Economy.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
MY friend was visibly shaken. He had just learned that he had lost one of his clients to Chinese competitors. ''It's amazing,'' he told me. ''The Chinese have completely priced us out of the market. We can't compete with what they're able to offer.'' 
 There's nothing surprising about that, of course; manufacturing jobs are lost to China every day. But my friend is not in manufacturing. He works in foreign aid. 
 His story is about Nigeria's trains. The Nigerian government operates three railways, which are notoriously corrupt and inefficient. They are also falling apart. The World Bank -- where my friend works -- proposed a project based on the commonsense observation that there was no point in lending the Nigerians money without also tackling the corruption that had crippled the railways. After months of negotiation, the bank and Nigeria's government agreed on a $5 million project that would allow private companies to come in and help clean up the railways. 
 But just as the deal was about to be signed, the Chinese government offered Nigeria $9 billion to rebuild the entire rail network -- no bids, no conditions and no need to reform. That was when my friend packed his suitcase and went to the airport. 
 It is not an isolated case. In recent years, wealthy nondemocratic regimes have begun to undermine development policy through their own activist aid programs. Call it rogue aid. It is development assistance that is nondemocratic in origin and nontransparent in practice, and its effect is typically to stifle real progress while hurting ordinary citizens.
 China is actively backing such deals throughout Africa; its financing of roads, electrical plants, ports and the like boomed from $700 million in 2003 to nearly $3 billion for each of the past two years. Indeed, it is a worldwide strategy. Beijing has agreed to expand Indonesia's electrical grid in a matter of months. Too bad the deal calls for building several plants that use a highly polluting, coal-based Chinese technology. No international agency would have signed off on such an environmentally unfriendly deal. 
 In the Philippines, the Asian Development Bank, which lends money at low interest rates to poor countries, had agreed to finance Manila's new aqueduct. It, too, was suddenly told that its money was no longer needed. China was offering cheaper rates, faster approval and fewer questions. 
 What's behind this sudden Chinese drive to do good around the world? The three short answers are money, international politics and access to raw materials. China's central bank has the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, totaling $1.06 trillion. Beijing is increasingly leveraging this cash to ensure its access to raw materials and to advance China's growing global influence. What better than a generous foreign-aid program to ensure the good will of a petro-power like Nigeria or a natural-resource-rich neighbor like Indonesia?
 China is not the first country to make aid a tool in advancing its interests abroad. The Soviet Union and the United States spent decades giving development aid to dictators in exchange for their allegiance. Even today, American largess to Egypt and Pakistan is rooted in geopolitical calculation. 
 But beginning in the 1990s, foreign aid had begun to slowly improve. Scrutiny by the news media shamed many developed countries into curbing their bad practices. Today, the projects of organizations like the World Bank are meticulously inspected by watchdog groups. Although the system is far from perfect, it is certainly more transparent than it was when foreign aid routinely helped ruthless dictators stay in power.
 Nor is China the only regime offering rogue aid. President Hugo Chavez has not been shy in using his nation's oil money to recruit allies abroad. Indeed, Venezuela's ambassador to Nicaragua, explaining his country's large aid packages in the region, bluntly announced, ''We want to infect Latin America with our model.'' 
 Mr. Chavez's financial aid to Cuba far exceeds what the island used to get from Leonid Brezhnev during the heyday of Soviet communism, and it has dashed hopes for Cuba's opening as a result of Fidel Castro's demise and the island's bankruptcy. Because of Mr. Chavez's artificial lifeline, Cubans will be forced to wait even longer for the indispensable reforms that will bring their society opportunities for true prosperity and freedom. 
 Iranian aid to Hamas in Palestine and Hezbollah in Lebanon may have increased Iran's influence in the region, but it is damaging to the people in those countries for the same reason that Venezuelan aid hurts Cubans. The same can be said of Saudi Arabia's sponsorship, in countries like Pakistan, of religious schools that fail to equip students with the skills they need to get jobs. 
 One could argue that students are surely better off going to any school than being in the streets. But why should these be the only options? Why can't the Saudis finance education, the Chinese pay for railroads and electric grids, and the Venezuelans help Cuba's economy without also hurting poor Pakistanis, Nigerians and Cubans? Because the goal of these donors is not to help other countries develop. Rather, they seek to further their own national interests, advance an ideological agenda or even line their own pockets. Rogue aid providers couldn't care less about the long-term well-being of the population of the countries they aid.
 States like China, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have the cash and the will to reshape the world into a place very unlike the one where we want to live. By pushing their alternative development model, such states effectively price responsible aid programs out of the market exactly where they are needed most. In place of those programs, rogue donors offer to underwrite a world that is more corrupt, chaotic and authoritarian. That sort of aid is in no one's interest, except the rogues.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Patrick Thomas) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); ETHICS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); POWER PLANTS (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid ; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Railroads; Ethics

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%)

PERSON: Moises Naim

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); NIGERIA (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) China; Saudi Arabia; Venezuela; Africa; Iran; Saudi Arabia; Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



312 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: All the World's a Stage (That Includes the Internet)

BYLINE: By SCOTT KIRSNER

 BODY:
AT lunchtime, or when he is walking the halls of his workplace, Roy Raphaeli's colleagues often beseech him to do a magic trick. Usually, he obliges. ''I take the opportunity to show people my new stuff and see how they react,'' said Mr. Raphaeli, 23, a Brooklynite who works for a mail-order camera retailer.
 While Mr. Raphaeli, known professionally as Magic Roy, has been entertaining people with card tricks and sleight-of-hand since he was 5, he does not perform at birthday parties or casino showrooms.
Instead, Mr. Raphaeli's stage of choice is the Internet, where he has posted 30 short video clips to Metacafe, a Web site that pays video creators based on how many viewers their work attracts. So far, Mr. Raphaeli has earned more than $13,000 from the site, where his most popular card trick has been seen 1.4 million times. 
 As video sites look for ways to attract higher-quality content, they are dangling cash, usually offering to cut creators in on the advertising revenue their work generates. 
 Revver, the Los Angeles company that pioneered the practice, shows a still-frame ad at the end of a video, and funnels money to the creator every time a viewer clicks on the ad to visit the advertiser's Web site. Metacafe inserts a similar still-frame graphic at the end of a clip; it pays creators $100 when their video has been viewed 20,000 times, and $5 for every 1,000 additional views. 
 Other sites, like TurnHere and ExpertVillage.com, offer upfront payments for videos on assigned topics, like a tour of Golden Gate Park in San Francisco, or an instructional video about skydiving. And in January, Chad Hurley, a YouTube co-founder, announced at the World Economic Forum that his site, now owned by Google, was exploring similar ways to ''reward creativity.''
 While the sums involved are not yet impressive enough to lure established TV or movie producers into the world of Internet video, they can be significant for people on the fringes of the entertainment industry, or those who see video production as a sideline to their day job, like Mr. Raphaeli. 
 He had originally planned to sell DVD compilations of his best tricks, before discovering that he could earn more, and reach a larger audience, by posting his videos online. 
 Kent Nichols, co-creator of Ask a Ninja, a series of comic videos in which a cranky ninja responds to viewer questions, says he managed to earn more than $20,000 last year on Revver. Mr. Nichols now has an agent, who recently helped him negotiate what he says is a more lucrative advertising deal with another company. 
 Ahree Lee, a graphic designer in San Francisco, earned ''a couple of thousand dollars'' in 2006 when a short film she had made became a hit on AtomFilms.com. It featured a fast-paced succession of still photographs she had taken of her face over several years, set to music composed by her husband.
 More than a dozen sites now offer payments for videos that range from short snippets to full-length feature films. Some, like Revver, Metacafe and Manhattan-based Blip.tv, generate money from advertising; others, like Brightcove, DivX Stage6 and Cruxy, allow a video's creator to set a price viewers must pay to view it, and exact a small transaction fee. 
 Most of the sites require that videos be uploaded to them, rather than sent on a DVD or a tape. When a video is viewed enough times to start generating revenue for its creator, the money is typically transferred to a PayPal account set up by the creator.
 But the biggest challenge is attracting an audience.
 A co-founder of Metacafe, Arik Czerniak, says his site has around 100,000 people who like reviewing new videos. ''They're practically video addicts,'' he said. ''If a video is interesting or engaging, it will get very high ratings from them.'' 
 Videos that win raves can wind up on the site's home page, where, Mr. Czerniak said, ''a video can get 500,000 views in a single afternoon, all without you really worrying about marketing your video.'' 
 Others say that a little self-promotion can't hurt. ''We have a MySpace page and a Facebook group,'' said Matt Wyatt, a member of the Los Angeles comedy troupe Invisible Engine, referring to two popular social networking sites where he posts the group's latest videos. ''We also e-mail a link to sites like StupidVideos.com and Transbuddha.com -- sites that can help a video take off.'' 
 When these sites choose to ''embed'' a video, using a bit of HTML code to weave it into one of their pages, the advertising still appears and the view is tallied, which generates revenue for the creator.
 Some videos manage to catch fire with little effort. Fritz Grobe, a juggler who lives in Buckfield, Me., still cannot explain why a video he posted last June became so popular. It featured an array of two-liter bottles of Diet Coke that he and his partner, Stephen Voltz, detonated using Mentos candies. 
 ''It sparked an instant reaction,'' Mr. Grobe said. ''Two days after we'd posted it on Revver, 'The Late Show With David Letterman' called.'' 
 The video was eventually seen more than seven million times, earning Mr. Grobe and Mr. Voltz about $35,000. (A second video in the Extreme Mentos and Diet Coke Experiments series, released in partnership with Google last fall, has not managed to surpass that amount.)
 Some semiprofessional videographers and independent filmmakers are relying on Web sites to make money between projects. Steve Janas of Belanco, Pa., says he has earned $500 to $2,000 for short videos he has made for the Web site TurnHere.com. 
 Most of his videos have been tourist guides to cities like Philadelphia, Princeton, N.J., and Reykjavik, Iceland, but Mr. Janas has also produced video tours of multimillion-dollar condos, intended to help sell them. TurnHere pays a flat fee for each video. 
 But only a few sites offer that kind of upfront payment. More common are sites like Break.com, where videos entertaining enough to win a spot on the home page earn $2,000, or sites like Revver and Metacafe, where the payment is based on the number of views.
 Just as Hollywood moguls have yet to find an infallible formula for producing a blockbuster, Internet video producers still don't know why some clips ''go viral,'' sent by e-mail from person to person and incorporated into blog entries, and others languish, seen only by the auteur's dorm mates. 
 ''A video has to grab you by the neck in about five seconds -- otherwise people lose interest,'' Mr. Czerniak said. ''The maximum length is about 90 seconds.'' 
 An acrobatics demonstration in which Joe Eigo, a Canadian martial-arts expert, executes flips and high-kicks like a character from a video game, has chalked up $25,000 worth of views for him. 
 Several painting demonstrations, using canisters of spray paint, have earned Brandon McConnell, a former zoo groundskeeper, almost $10,000. One element of success, he says, is choosing an intriguing image for the still-frame that represents each video on a site, enticing visitors to play it. 
 ''I try to think about what's going to cause people to say, 'What's that?' '' Mr. McConnell said. 
 And he did not want his day job to get in the way. In December, he resigned from the San Diego Zoo to make videos full time. ''Lately,'' he said, ''I've been trying to do one video a day, and make that a goal.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Roy Raphaeli, known professionally as Magic Roy, top, offers video clips of himself performing magic tricks on Metacafe, a Web site that pays him if he attracts a lot of viewers. His work includes ''Green Card,'' center, and ''Two Card Monte,'' above, featuring onlookers. (Photo by Magic Roy Inc.)
 (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (88%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); INTERNET VIDEO (74%); WEB SITES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%) Advertising and Marketing; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Metacafe.com; Turnhere.com; ExpertVillage.com

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: Scott Kirsner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



313 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Germany Battling Rising Tide of Corporate Corruption

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Wolfgang Schaupensteiner has never been so busy.
 From an office in downtown Frankfurt that is decorated with cartoons about corruption, Mr. Schaupensteiner has headed the tiny financial crime unit for this city, Germany's financial capital, since 1993. These days, his backlog of bribery, fraud and other white-collar crime cases runs into the hundreds, and he says he has a simple explanation as to why.
Corporate profits have surged across sectors ranging from finance to autos to energy, as German executives have turned the country into one of the world's largest exporters over the last five years. Illicit dealings helped create their success, he asserts, and that in turn has encouraged many executives to believe that crime does pay. 
 On Wednesday, prosecutors in the southern city of Nuremburg raided multiple locations of the offices of Siemens, one of the country's most prominent companies, on suspicion that certain bribes may have been concealed as payments for services that were never provided. 
 In recent months, DaimlerChrysler, BMW and Volkswagen have also been raided, put under investigation or even had employees taken into custody. 
 ''Globalization has become a motor for corruption in Germany,'' asserted Mr. Schaupensteiner, 58. ''It creates dangerous potential if you do not control it.'' Exports drove the German trade surplus to record levels in 2006, helping push up the country's benchmark stock index, the DAX, almost 20 percent over the last year. Rising corporate profits have meant higher tax receipts for a money-starved government in Berlin, but little of that money is helping Mr. Schaupensteiner tackle the corruption he says is also increasing with all this financial success.
 Mr. Schaupensteiner and anticorruption activists argue that as profits earned abroad have increased, employees of German companies may have become more tempted to accept bribes and also to give bribes to win business. Europe only recently banned such practices. 
 This is in contrast to the foreign bribery laws in the United States, which, for 30 years, have restricted all American employees, regardless of where they conduct business. 
 At the very least, there has been a marked rise in the number of high-profile cases being prosecuted recently, and some of those have reached into the executive offices at the most prominent German companies. 
 In the fall, an employee of the luxury automaker BMW was jailed for accepting bribes from an auto parts supplier. And American authorities are investigating whether DaimlerChrysler employees made improper payments in Africa and Asia. 
 Germany's federal police service, BKA, registered nearly 90,000 cases of such crime in 2005, a 10 percent increase over the previous year, and a survey by the auditing giant KPMG concluded that 80 percent of all crimes in Germany go unreported.
 Siemens, the engineering conglomerate based in Munich, is facing one of the worst bribery scandals in its history. Marc Langendorf, a Siemens spokesman in Munich, said the raid Wednesday involved ''a new case'' beyond the Munich investigation, but declined to provide further details. 
 But German prosecutors in Munich, along with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department in the United States, are investigating a number of Siemens employees for possible crimes that include the suspected creation of about 400 million euros ($520 million) in slush funds for bribes to secure commercial contracts abroad. 
 ''Corruption between buyers and sellers in Germany and bribery abroad is probably on the rise,'' said Hansjorg Elshorst, director of the German chapter of Transparency International, the anticorruption group. 
 It is not clear, though, that Germany is markedly different from its European peers, experts say. On a 2006 index compiled by Transparency International that measures perceptions of how corrupt countries are, Germany ranks 16th, suggesting it is more corrupt than Austria, Sweden or Britain. 
 Another index showed that those surveyed -- principally business executives -- see German companies as less likely to pay bribes than their colleagues in France or Spain.
 But anticorruption activists and prosecutors also say that this recent wave of corruption cases may reflect lax legal compliance rules at the companies. Others say that the rising number of cases may simply reflect more aggressive prosecution. 
 ''The number of cases is bound to go up the closer you look,'' said Mark Pieth, a professor of criminology at the University of Basel who specializes in bribery prevention, and runs a study group on the subject for the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. ''There has to be a phase until you get over the hill, a phase in which you are constantly finding new cases.''
 Since the creation of the 1997 treaty against foreign bribery by private companies, the Paris-based O.E.C.D. has monitored investigations in this specific area. The United States alone has about 50 cases running, reflecting the fact that it has had such rules for 30 years in the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
 All of Europe, by contrast, has only about 100 cases under way, according to the O.E.C.D.
 Only in 1997 did Germany pass laws giving prosecutors discretion to bring cases themselves. A few years later, with the negotiation of the O.E.C.D. convention on acts of bribery abroad, Mr. Schaupensteiner and his team obtained a new legal means to prosecute such cases of bribery conducted abroad by German companies similar to the longstanding American law.
 That rule change made all the difference for Mr. Schaupensteiner, who had never touched a dossier on economic crime until he founded the Frankfurt office in 1993. Previously, he had been a judge specializing in antitrust cases. But even then his four-member team was not allowed to prosecute a case until the company itself referred it to them.
 That was a ''rare event,'' he notes, wryly. 
 Now, German prosecutors and judges agree that they have enough resources to highlight individual cases, but not enough resources to prosecute all the cases fully. The German attorney general recently surveyed prosecutors and found the response overwhelming: they need more hands on deck.
 Law enforcement officials hope the current spate of scandals will prompt a serious, systematic effort by German companies to impose more stringent internal controls and systems of legal compliance to stop corruption from happening in the first place. 
 ''Experience tells us that after the headlines go away and the excitement dies down, it's back to business,'' Mr. Schaupensteiner said.
 There are some precedents for success, though. The chemical giant BASF was caught participating in a huge conspiracy to fix the prices of vitamins -- a reaction to cheap competition from Asia -- and paid half a billion dollars in fines to governments on both sides of the Atlantic. 
 ''It generated some very serious thoughts about how to do compliance,'' said Michael Grabicki, a BASF spokesman. ''That led to a serious program.''
 Now, BASF has a compliance program that Transparency International has praised. In 2003, it appointed one of the first chief compliance officers in Germany, and now trains certain employees about a range of legal issues that include money laundering and bribery.
 Still, anticorruption experts say that throughout Europe, BASF stands out as more the exception than the rule.
 ''The giants have to understand they have to rewrite their compliance systems and train people,'' Mr. Pieth, the Basel professor, said, ''but many of them are very slow to realize this.''
 The publicity, however, helps the campaign against corruption because it could prompt companies to increase internal scrutiny and prosecutors to be vigilant. Hansjorg Elshorst, director of the German chapter of Transparency International, says the discussion about new laws to fight corruption, and a few examples of it, might be just what the country needs.
 ''In the last five years, the notion that we need to prosecute economic criminality took on an entirely new dynamic,'' Mr. Elshorst said. ''Every society has moments in time where they wake up to the presence of corruption. That has happened here, too.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wolfgang Schaupensteiner, who heads a Frankfurt crime unit, has a backlog of hundreds of bribery, fraud and other white-collar crime cases. (Photo by Gaby Gerster/Laif)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (93%); CORRUPTION (90%); BRIBERY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (73%); SCANDALS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); BONDS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Executives and Management; Frauds and Swindling; Bribery; White-Collar Crime; International Trade and World Market; Records and Achievements; Stocks and Bonds; Executives and Management; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Search and Seizure; Executives and Management; Executives and Management

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) BKA (German Federal Police); Kpmg; Siemens Ag; Securities and Exchange Commission; Justice Department

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (84%); SIE (LSE) (84%); SIE (FRA) (84%); SIE (BIT) (84%); SI (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: Wolfgang Schaupensteiner; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



314 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Japan Shows Growth

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
Japan's economy grew for the eighth consecutive quarter, expanding at an annualized 4.8 percent for the October-December period, the government said Thursday. 
 The data shows that Japan, the world's second-largest economy, after the United States, has been experiencing the longest period of solid growth since the end of World War II, although the pace of growth is far more moderate than during the expansion that ran from 1965 to 1970.
The latest numbers show that Japan's gross domestic product, the value of goods and services produced in the nation, grew 1.2 percent in the fiscal fourth quarter from the previous quarter.
 Consumer spending, which makes up more than half of G.D.P., rose 1.1 percent in the three months that ended Dec. 31, rebounding from a 1.1 percent drop in the July-September period.
 Signs of recovery in consumption may raise expectations that the Bank of Japan will increase its interest rate to 0.50 percent from the current 0.25 percent at its monetary policy meeting this month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (86%); MONETARY POLICY (85%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); WORLD WAR II (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Consumer Behavior; Gross Domestic Product; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



315 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: A Push for Dollar Coins, Using Presidential Fervor

BYLINE: By MATTHEW HEALEY

 BODY:
The United States Mint has been working around the clock to turn out the first of its new series of Presidential Dollar coins for their debut today. And it has been working just as hard to make sure that the new coins don't end up as just another collector's item. 
 This time the Mint has taken a new approach to designing the coins as well as promoted them with the retailers, banks and transit systems that will play the biggest role in making the coins circulate effectively.
But the x-factor in any dollar coin catching on is the possible withdrawal of the dollar bill, an issue that for now remains unaddressed by Congress, the Treasury or the Federal Reserve Board. 
 Authorized by Congress in 2005, following the model of the highly popular 50 State Quarters series, the new dollars show portraits of all deceased American presidents, starting with George Washington and continuing with four more each year for at least a decade. 
 The striking portraits, in three-quarter view, are larger than on past coinage, and another novelty is the use of edge lettering for the first time since the 1930s: ''E Pluribus Unum,'' ''In God We Trust'' and the date and mintmark are cut in tiny letters into the outer rim. 
 The technology needed for this edge lettering, which was mandated by Congress, was planned and installed in just nine months, according to Richard R. Robidoux, the plant manager at the Philadelphia Mint.
 The new dollars are also being burnished and treated with a chemical to make them stay shiny longer.
 They are made of manganese brass sandwiched around copper, the same color and size as the ''golden'' dollars featuring Lewis and Clark's guide, Sacagawea, that were released in 2000, so vending machines that already accept dollar coins will not need to be readjusted (The dollars featuring the suffragist Susan B. Anthony, although a different color, still work in vending machines, too). At just over eight grams, a dollar coin weighs about a third of what four quarters weigh.
 A visit last week to the five-acre, four-story production line in Philadelphia, just steps away from the serenity of Independence Hall and Benjamin Franklin's quiet graveyard, revealed a high-speed operation, thundering and clanging. Wheeled hampers, each holding more than 100,000 of the gleaming dollars, were being busily shunted from one workstation to the next.
 First, huge rolls of sheet metal from outside suppliers are unwound into a machine that stamps out blanks, called planchets. Each planchet is squeezed between rollers to give it a raised rim and then softened by heating. Then it is burnished and coated, to produce the highly polished look. 
 The planchets are then fed into a press that applies over 80 metric tons of pressure, firing like a car engine to turn out as many as 750 coins a minute. The freshly minted dollars are carted to another machine where the edge lettering is pressed into them (right side up or upside down, at random) before being weighed, counted and poured into large Kevlar bags ready for shipping. 
 The mints at Philadelphia and Denver are each turning out more than three million new dollar coins a day on their way to fulfilling the Federal Reserve's initial order for 300 million. 
 In a few weeks, production of the Washington design will end, and John Adams will step into the limelight, succeeded later this year by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison. Meanwhile, the Mint will continue producing Sacagawea dollars, since Congress stipulated that a third of each year's total production must continue with the old design.
 The Mint has also been organizing seminars and sending out training kits and promotional materials to banks and national retailers. A promotional event this morning at Grand Central Terminal will feature the Mint's director, Edmund C. Moy, spending one of the first of the Washington dollars, and Mint employees will exchange morning commuters' bills for coins.
 John C. Rasmus, a senior official of the American Banking Association, praised the efforts by the Mint and the Federal Reserve to ''accommodate the needs of the public.'' For example, banks will have a six-week window to order rolls and bags of each new design unmixed with other dollar coin designs, to make it easier for them to fulfill customers' requests.
 Most vending machines and transit ticket machines were refitted to take dollar coins after the Sacagawea's debut in 2000. Indeed, the vending industry is eager to recoup its costs and is hoping for increased sales from having higher denomination coins in use, in addition to saving $200 million to $300 million annually that is lost because of difficulties with paper dollars.
 In the meantime, despite the lessons learned, the dollar bill will continue to be printed and circulated -- a factor that would appear to condemn the new coins to the same fate as their predecessors.
 A study released by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in late 2004 examined the failure of past dollar coins and the experiences of other countries like Australia, Britain and Canada that have replaced low-denomination bills with coins. 
 Initial public resistance to a new coin is inevitable, the paper stated, and likely to last many months. It cited a 1995 report from the Government Accountability Office noting that the French public accepted a 10-franc coin, first issued in 1975, only after the competing 10-franc note was withdrawn some years later.
 The American dollar is now one of the smallest-value banknotes remaining in circulation in the world. Thirteen European nations use one- and two-euro coins, worth $1.32 and $2.64 respectively, and the smallest bill there is five euros, or $6.60. 
 Japan circulates a 500-yen coin, worth $4.14, with the smallest bill worth 1,000 yen, or $8.28. Most other Western nations have similar value levels for their largest coins and smallest bills. The most widely used coin in the United States, of course, is just 25 cents.
 Paradoxically, Sacagawea coins are popular in countries like Ecuador that use American currency.
 Before making any decision to withdraw the dollar bill, Congress, the Treasury and the Federal Reserve would have to re-examine all the costs involved, both to the government and to the public. The psychological barrier to withdrawing the greenback, a global symbol of America's economic might, is obvious. The financial issue is subtler.
 Dollar coins cost about 20 cents each to make, but last for up to 30 years; bills cost only about 4 cents each, but must be replaced every 18 to 22 months. 
 The cost of money is more than just production, however. Storage and handling must be factored in, as well as the different kinds of seignorage, or profit to the government from putting currency into circulation. When a dollar coin is issued, the Mint ''earns'' the difference between its production cost and face value -- now about 80 cents. If a collector saves the coin, another must be issued to replace it. 
 A banknote, since it is redeemable, counts as a government liability, and the Federal Reserve has to back it by buying securities, which earn interest. According to the Fed, there are now about eight billion dollar bills in circulation, so that interest income is considerable. Coins do not yield such income. 
 But Mr. Rasmus, the banking association official, said that for now, banks were not worried about the added costs of handling coins, preferring to focus on satisfying customer demand by making the new dollars available.
 Congress would have to mandate any formal changeover from bills to coins. In the meantime, representatives for both the Mint and the Federal Reserve say it is up to the people to decide whether they prefer coins or bills -- or neither,since electronic payments are catching on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Menna, an artist at the Philadelphia Mint, working on a portrait of Washington like the one being used as part of the Presidential Dollar series. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); RETAILERS (71%) Currency; Marketing and Merchandising

ORGANIZATION: US MINT (93%) United States Mint

PERSON: Matthew Healey

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



316 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Study Questions Prospects for Much Lower Emissions

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
As Democratic leaders in Congress prepare to put climate change legislation on the agenda, some in the utility industry are arguing that it will take decades of investments and innovation to get substantial reductions in their emissions of greenhouse gases. 
 Electric power companies, which emit about one-third of America's global warming gases, could reduce their emissions to below the levels of 1990, but that would take about 20 years, no matter how much the utilities spend, according to a new industry study. 
The report, prepared by the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit consortium, is portrayed as highly optimistic by its authors, who will present the findings on Thursday at an energy conference in Houston.
 It assumes that ''money grows on trees and all research is successful,'' said one of them, Bryan J. Hannegan. ''This is as good as we think we can get, right now.''
 Before joining the research institute last year, Dr. Hannegan, a climate scientist, worked as an environmental and economic adviser to the White House and on the Republican staff of the Senate Energy Committee, where he helped draft the 2005 energy bill.
 His detailed new analysis comes as Democrats in Congress are promising to draft tough new targets for emissions of greenhouse gases, possibly including mandatory caps, which the Bush administration and industry groups have opposed in the past. 
 The 1990 Kyoto Protocol on climate change, which the Bush administration declined to support in 2001, calls for emissions from large industrial nations to be below 1990 levels by about the year 2010.
 In an interview, Dr. Hannegan said that cutting carbon dioxide that much would mean pursuing every option, including energy efficiency, zero-carbon wind and sun power; new nuclear reactors; coal plants that capture and sequester their carbon; and even plug-in hybrid electric cars, which would require making more electricity but would reduce carbon dioxide and save gasoline. 
 At the Natural Resources Defense Council, David G. Hawkins, an energy and climate expert, said that the industry group's projections would not provide the necessary savings soon enough.
 ''We think the efficiency, renewables and carbon dioxide capture wedges can all be bigger,'' Mr. Hawkins said. He added that whatever overall reduction was achieved in carbon output, the electric sector would have to exceed the average, because it had greater potential than industry or transportation to reduce emissions.
 But he said it was not clear that the country could build as many nuclear reactors as the research institute's outline called for, at least not without solving problems with nuclear waste and fear of proliferation. 
 The industry study calls for 64 gigawatts of additional nuclear power by 2030, an increase of about two-thirds from the current level. For the first time in three decades, several companies have expressed interest recently in ordering new reactors, but they will probably take nearly 10 years to build and experts expect no more than six or eight in the first round. 
 The study's figure implies a net increase of about 50 new reactors by 2030; the Energy Department is counting on about 10.
 The study also calls for cutting the growth in demand for electricity, which the Energy Department expects to increase at 1.5 percent a year. The study assumes growth of just 1.1 percent a year, which implies a steady decline in electricity use for each unit of economic production.
 It also calls for vast growth in wind energy and some solar energy. Renewable energy (leaving out hydroelectricity) now comes to only a little over 2 percent of kilowatt-hours generated; by 2030, it would be 6.7 percent. 
 The biggest slice, though, is from coal plants that would capture their carbon dioxide, compress it and pipe it underground for sequestration. This is a technology that has been barely demonstrated at this point. But in a little over 20 years, it would have to produce 14.6 percent of electricity supplies.
 The technologies required do exist, at least at laboratory scale. But the study does not predict costs and stipulate what is economically feasible.
 Many of the changes forecast by the utility group depend on prices and on consumer attitudes. For example, it projects that 10 percent of new vehicle sales by 2017 will be plug-in hybrids, which would carry enough batteries to run a car for the first 20 or 30 miles daily; on days when a motorist went farther, the fuel would be gasoline. 
 There are no commercially available batteries for that task, however, and hybrids sold today constitute a tiny fraction of the market. 
 The study counts on upgrading existing coal plants, to make them more efficient. But refurbishing old plants might not be as effective as replacing them, Mr. Hawkins said. 
 Older coal plants now in service are typically about 33 percent efficient, meaning that two-thirds of the energy in the coal is lost in the generating process. The study sets a target of 49 percent efficiency by 2030. 
 Jeff Sterba, the chairman of the industry research group and the chief executive of PNM, the parent company of Public Service of New Mexico, is scheduled to present the study on Thursday morning at a conference organized by the consulting firm Cambridge Energy Research Associates.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Path to Reduced Emissions''The Energy Department projects an increase in carbon dioxide emissions from electricity use over the coming decades, even with increasing energy efficiency, more wind and solar power, and other innovations. But according to a new study by the electric industry, the steps projected by the government could be bolstered and others added, resulting in cuts in total emissions to a level below that of 1990 by the late 2020s. Graph tracks Electric sector carbon dioxide emissions since 1990. (Source by Electric Power Research Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (85%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); NUCLEAR WASTE (63%); COAL INDUSTRY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%) Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Electric Light and Power; Solar Energy; Wind; Turbines; Atomic Energy; Coal; Automobiles ; Weather; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (91%) Electric Power Research Institute

PERSON: Bryan Hannegan; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



317 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: City Hopes to Allow More Offices in Garment Center

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Acknowledging that the garment center is no longer the production powerhouse it once was, the city is looking to ease restrictions on converting manufacturing spaces to offices there, the city planning commissioner, Amanda M. Burden, said yesterday.
 Officials hope to make a plan encouraging a mix of businesses in about a month, Ms. Burden said, as part of an effort to maintain the economic health of an area that has been steadily losing garment jobs for decades as the bulk of clothing manufacture has moved overseas.
Two decades ago, the city tried to preserve those garment jobs with rules that generally required landlords who converted their property to office space to create an equivalent amount of manufacturing space elsewhere. But those provisions were largely ignored until recently, as higher-paying tenants in other industries moved in and clothing makers moved out. 
 ''The garment center has perhaps the most anachronistic zoning in the entire city,'' Ms. Burden said at a breakfast forum sponsored by Crain's New York Business, adding that it was no longer a good place to work because of a lack of investment in the buildings.
 City officials are in discussion with labor and business interests to devise a plan that will balance the need to keep some manufacturing while satisfying the demand for less expensive office space, she said. But any changes will not allow more residential conversions than are currently permitted.
 The area under consideration runs roughly between 34th and 40th Streets and between Broadway and Ninth Avenue. The swath west of Eighth Avenue has already been rezoned as part of the Hudson Yards plan, officials said, allowing for some residential development and some exemptions from the special manufacturing provisions.
 Although there is not yet consensus on how to best handle the problem of the declining garment manufacturing industry, there is agreement among labor, business, government and economic experts that zoning changes are needed to better reflect economic realities. From 2001 to 2005, the most recent year for which average annual figures are available, employment in the industry in the city fell by 39.6 percent, roughly matching the national statistics, according to Martin Kohli of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In Manhattan, the number of jobs fell to 17,979 from 26,966.
 ''The garment industry and the Midtown garment center are a jewel in the city and an important economic engine we need to protect and even grow,'' said Maura Keaney, deputy chief of staff to the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, who represents the area. ''But at the same time we need to let that Midtown area change with the market.''
 Those in the industry and those who study it say that the city can no longer compete for high-volume manufacturing production, but that it can fill a demand for couture-level work as well as for small orders that can be turned around quickly and for sample production.
 ''That part of the production chain is so essential to everything else that goes on in the industry,'' said James Parrott, the deputy director and chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group. ''It is essential to the design status of New York.''
 In addition, said Bud Konheim, the chief executive of the designer Nicole Miller, there is an intangible but crucial vitality that manufacturing brings to the garment industry, which still serves as both an economic and creative engine in the city.
 ''If you eliminate the making part of it and you just have the designers and the P.R. people and the stylists, O.K., they're here but all of a sudden it's sterile,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Whether snow, rain or sleet, it's business as usual in the garment district, in this case 37th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues yesterday. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)Chart: ''Change in the Garment District''With the decline of the garment industry, the city announced plans on Wednesday to rezone the garment district, preserving just some areas within its current boundary for clothing manufacturing.Graph tracks number of clothing manufacturing jobs in New York City from 1997 to 2005.2005: 28,599Note: Industry classification standards were changed in 2001.(Source by U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics)Map of Manhattan highlighting Garment District. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STATISTICS (85%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%) Apparel; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: Diane Cardwell; Amanda M (Comr) Burden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



318 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-19 Bush Ties Attacks in Iraq To Iran Government UnitsPresident Bush said he was certain that factions within the Iranian government supplied Shiite militants in Iraq with deadly roadside bombs that had killed American troops. But he said he did not know whether Iran's highest officials had directed the attacks. A1 U.S. Begins New Security PlanThousands of American troops in armored vehicles swarmed three mostly Shiite neighborhoods of Baghdad, encountering little resistance during what commanders described as the first major sweep of the new security plan for the capital. A18 Russian Vote Raises ConcernElection laws in Russia have raised questions about the fairness of regional elections scheduled for March. 
The vote will preview national elections in which voters' choices will be severely limited at best. A1 Tension as Beirut Honors HaririA ceremony in Beirut honoring the second anniversary of the assassination of the former prime minister, Rafik Hariri, concluded without violence. But the day's events illustrated the deep tensions that keep Lebanon on the edge of civil conflict. A12 A Warning on Bird Flu ThreatScientists say that bird flu, which seems all but forgotten this year, is as dangerous and unpredictable as ever and is out of control in birds in more places than previous years, including the Nile Delta in Egypt and Nigeria where public health mechanisms are weak. A3 NATIONAL A20-27 Defense Suffers Setbacks As Leak Case ClosesThe lawyers defending I. Lewis Libby Jr. against perjury charges rested their case, but not before suffering a series of defeats in legal rulings by the presiding judge. A27 Giuliani Ends Doubt of '08 RunRudolph W. Giuliani removed any lingering doubts that he was running for president in a televised interview, and without mentioning President Bush by name, offered pointed criticism on the Iraq war. A26 Shift in Air Traffic PaymentThe Bush administration proposed to eliminate the tax on plane tickets and air cargo shipments, shifting the cost of the air traffic control system largely to user fees and increased taxes on fuel. A22 City Copes With ShootingsState and local officials in Salt Lake City say that the rage and grief following the mass murders in a shopping mall by an 18-year-old Bosnian man threatens a backlash, and announced plans for a series of outreach meetings and candlelight vigils to head off trouble and help the city heal. A22SCIENCE/HEALTHFlu Spray Found Most EffectiveA study published in The New England Journal of Medicine found that FluMist vaccine -- a live virus in a nasal spray -- is much more effective than flu shots in protecting young children against the flu. A20 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8Otto Frank's Efforts To Reach U.S. RevealedA recently discovered file of personal correspondence and official papers which had lain undisturbed in a New Jersey warehouse for nearly 30 years chronicle the efforts by Anne Frank's family to get to the United States or Cuba before the Nazis got to them. A1 Use of Funds in DoubtNew York City officials are looking to tap for other uses a $1 billion insurance fund set aside to cover the city against negligence lawsuits related to 9/11. But using that money may present problems. B1For New York, Finally, SnowA slow-moving weather system delivered snow, sleet, rain and high winds to the New York region and led to commuting headaches, closed schools and power failures. B1BUSINESS DAY C1-12 Daimler Considers SpinoffDaimlerChrysler, preparing to eliminate 16 percent of its work force in the United States and Canada, said it was considering a possible spinoff for its struggling Chrysler group. A1 Fed Chief Is UpbeatThe chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, gave Congress an upbeat view of the economy, predicting that unemployment was likely to remain low over the next two years. C1 Business Digest C2 EDITORIAL A28-29 Editorials: Not supporting our troops; minimum wage, minimum tax cuts; needed fixes for No Child Left Behind; Francis X. Clines on Congress as it confronts Iraq in 12-hour swatches.Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.Bridge B9Crossword B12TV Listings B13Weather C13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INFLUENZA (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (87%); RESEARCH REPORTS (87%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); LAWYERS (71%); JUDGES (69%); VACCINES (67%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (67%); CHILDREN (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (62%); AIR FREIGHT (62%); FUEL TAX (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LEBANON (92%); EGYPT (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



319 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: In State Legislatures, Democrats Are Pushing Toward Parity Between the Sexes

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: WOODBURY, Minn. 

 BODY:
Three middle-aged Democratic women -- a high school English teacher, an economist and an education lobbyist, none of whom had ever run for office -- took on three Republican state legislators last year in this conservative, traditionally Republican town and swept the field.
 Their victories -- the crest of a wave that brought 14 new Democratic women into the Legislature -- helped swing control of the Minnesota House of Representatives to the Democrats for the first time since 1998 and usher in a new moment of female political authority at the Capitol in St. Paul.
 On the low rungs of the nation's political system in the state legislatures, Democrats are pushing close to real parity among men and women -- a historic threshold that is changing more than mere numbers.
 The new Democratic women, epitomized by the Woodbury Three, as they are known here, are focused on the bread-and-butter issues of the suburbs, like property taxes, schools and health care. They are the soccer-mom swing-voters of years past, now making the laws themselves, and that could end up changing both parties here and beyond. 
 ''Are moderate suburban Democratic women the future of the party?'' said Gary Moncrief, a professor of political science at Boise State University in Idaho who studies state politics. ''That's the question this raises. If that's true, and you're a campaign manager out there, then regardless of whether you're a Republican or a Democrat, you've got to react.'' 
 Minnesota is evolving, many experts like Professor Moncrief say, and could become a political battleground in the next presidential election. If that happens, then the Woodbury women and their sisters, in reshaping what it means to be a Democrat in the state, could have an impact far beyond St. Paul.
 Representative Julie Bunn, an economist, former university professor and one of the Woodbury Three, said she thought that what happened in her election was only partly about party. ''People were tired of both extremes,'' Ms. Bunn said. ''Many people, in my view, voted for us not because we were Democrats but because we were moderate voices.'' 
 The Woodbury women coordinated with one another on logistics, from printing their campaign literature to sharing tips on the best prices for mass mailings. Their volunteers worked out of the same office and sometimes knocked on doors together. 
 Another member of the trio, Representative Marsha Swails, who is taking a leave from teaching Advanced Placement English in Woodbury to serve in the Legislature, said she thought people were also perhaps voting against men -- or at least against the male-dominated political culture that can seem locked in battles of ego and partisanship.
 ''People have a feeling about women -- that they're more reasonable than men,'' Ms. Swails said. 
 An alternative view is that the Democrats did well in places like Woodbury because they essentially became Republicans in Democrats' clothing. 
 ''My opponent ran on a Republican agenda, but maybe it's where the Democratic Party is going,'' said Karen Klinzing, a two-term Republican from Woodbury who was unseated by Ms. Swails and is now an assistant commissioner in the State Department of Education. ''If you look at her literature versus mine, there wasn't much of a differentiation.''
 Some people in Minnesota say a trend away from the old liberal feminist base signifies a triumph -- the mainstreaming of female politicians who can no longer be pigeonholed about their beliefs or interests. Others say the new mood of caution and conservatism in the capital is a loss in the fight against imbalances against women that still persist in American society. Minnesota was among the first in the nation to enact domestic violence protections, equal pay requirements and parental leave legislation beginning in the 1970s.
 ''When we did unpaid parental leave in the mid-1980s, it was very new and very bold, but it was the time,'' said Aviva Breen, the former director of the Commission on the Economic Status of Women, a bipartisan group created by the Minnesota Legislature in 1976. ''Now I don't see much inclination toward exciting new innovation like that.''
 While what happened here was not repeated in Congressional elections, it was echoed in many other states, especially in the Northeast and West, where women made their biggest gains. 
 Nationally, Democrats picked up more than 320 seats in state legislatures -- about 140 of them by women -- and gained control of 10 chambers, 4 of them here in the Upper Midwest: the Minnesota House, the Wisconsin Senate and both chambers of Iowa General Assembly. Republicans gained control of the Montana House of Representatives.
 Almost everywhere, women were crucial to those Democratic margins. In the New Hampshire Senate, which swung to Democratic control for the first time since 2000, women outnumber men almost two-to-one in the new majority caucus. 
 The Oregon House of Representatives shifted to control by the Democrats, 38 percent of whom are women. In the Colorado House of Representatives, where Democrats increased their majority in 2006, women now constitute almost 49 percent of the Democratic caucus.
 Republican women lost ground and saw their numbers slide everywhere but in parts of the South. There are now only 534 of them out of more than 7,300 party-affiliated state legislators nationwide, compared with 1,187 Democratic women, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures, a bipartisan group. 
 Among all Republican state legislators, the percentage of women has fallen to its lowest level since 1985, according to Professor Moncrief at Boise State.
 ''Republican women tend to be more moderate than their colleagues, especially in legislatures, and as their party has shifted to the right, they're more vulnerable,'' said Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University in New Jersey.
 But there are hints that Minnesota Republicans may be changing as much, and as fast, as the Democrats in adjusting to the consequences of the election.
 Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican who barely kept his job last November and who has been mentioned as a possible candidate for vice president in 2008, said in his State of the State speech in January that schools, the quality and availability of health care, and property taxes are the issues of the moment. That is where the state's $2 billion budget surplus should be focused, he said.
 ''You go to a place like Woodbury, they say, Keep my taxes reasonable, make health care cheaper, improve our schools,'' Mr. Pawlenty said in an interview in his office at the Capitol. 
 ''What happened in the election was more a sense of disappointment or frustration with Republicans, particularly nationally, than it was a mass conversation to Democratic philosophy,'' he said.
 But many of the Legislature's new Democrats said they thought that the governor -- combative and conservative in his first term, pushing through deep cuts in spending and pressing for restrictions on abortion -- has begun speaking to women and moderates.
 ''He was definitely speaking to a changed climate,'' Ms. Bunn said. ''The wedge issues were gone.'' 
 The sunny weather could change as the Legislature addresses the session's big issues, including a proposed statewide expansion of all-day kindergarten, a universal health care plan and a transportation system that Democrats say needs billions of dollars forrebuilding bridges and highways and improving mass transit. 
 But Speaker Margaret Anderson Kelliher said she did not see a sign of hardball so far from the governor. She thinks it would be self-defeating.
 ''I think people want leaders who can get things done,'' Ms. Kelliher said. ''And I think the governor probably knows that.'' 
 But if moderate Democrats do succeed in the Legislature, Republicans say, women like the Woodbury Three have a chance of becoming permanent fixtures in the suburbs. 
 State Senator Kathy L. Saltzman, the third member of the Woodbury caucus and a former education lobbyist, said she thought it was too soon to tell whether cooperation or conflict would prevail. 
 But she said she was convinced that the balance has shifted, and that the political center she and her colleagues were staking out now controls the field. 
 ''I'm going to be moving between the 30-yard lines,'' Ms. Saltzman said.
 This is the second in a series of articles that will examine state government in Minnesota, one of several states in which Democrats made gains in the November elections. For the first part: nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: Photos: State Representatives Julie Bunn, left, and Marsha Swails, right, with a House colleague, Erin Murphy.
Kathy L. Saltzman, a newly elected Minnesota state senator and one of the Woodbury Three, met with constituents in the state Capitol. (Photographs by Bill Alkofer for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''On the Rise''More women are being elected to state legislatures around the country. The growth is marked in Minnesota.Women now make up 35 percent of Minnesota's Legislature, third among the states.Graph tracks percentage of women in Minnesota Legislature (Senate and House) since 1971.Nationally their ranks have grown among Democrats but have fallen to 1980s levels among Republicans.Graph tracks women state legislators as a percentage of each party (Democrats and Republicans) since 1981.The proportion of women in state legislatures varies from 9 percent to 37 percent, with the Northeast and the West generally highest.HIGHESTVERMONT: 37.2%LOWESTSOUTH CAROLINA: 8.8%National average: 23.5Map of the United States highlighting percentage of women in state legislature.(Sources by Minnesota Office on the Economic Status of Women
Gary Moncrief, Boise State University
 National Conference of State Legislatures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (96%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MEN (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); SUBURBS (67%) States (US); Elections; Women; Legislatures and Parliaments; States (US)

ORGANIZATION: BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



320 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: State Farm Ends New Property Coverage in Mississippi

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
State Farm, the largest insurer in Mississippi, said yesterday that it had decided to stop selling new policies on homes and small businesses across the state as it faces hundreds of lawsuits over claims from Hurricane Katrina in 2005. 
 The company, which is also the largest home insurer in the country, said it would continue to renew old policies for the time being but warned that legal and business conditions in Mississippi ''are becoming untenable,'' suggesting that it might eventually stop providing any coverage.
Referring to the halt of new sales, Robert L. Trippel, the insurer's senior executive for Mississippi and three other Southern states, said, ''It is no longer prudent for us to take on additional risk in a legal and business environment that is becoming more unpredictable.'' 
 In a news conference in Jackson, the state capital, Jim Hood, the attorney general, said State Farm had created its own problems. ''If they'd paid what they owed in the first place, there never would have been a lawsuit filed,'' he said. 
 Mr. Hood and some insurance experts said that halting new sales was a ploy to persuade Mississippi officials and trial lawyers to back off from trying to force State Farm to increase its payments to storm victims. 
 ''They're trying to coerce us,'' Mr. Hood said. 
 But Phil Supple, a spokesman for State Farm, said the action was ''just a realization of the marketplace,'' a business decision. 
 State Farm has had several setbacks recently in the courts over its refusal to pay claims fully on homes battered as Hurricane Katrina swept over the Gulf Coast on Aug. 29, 2005. 
 The central issue has been whether State Farm and other insurers are required to pay for damage from surging flood waters as well as hurricane winds. The insurers insist their policies were never intended to cover flood damage and some, including State Farm, have refused to pay for homes that were destroyed by a combination of wind and water. 
 ''Parts of our policies are being reinterpreted after the fact,'' Mr. Supple said. ''And the reinterpretation is attempting to provide coverage that was not contemplated or paid for when the policies were written.''
 In early January, a jury awarded a State Farm policyholder in Mississippi $2.5 million in punitive damages -- later reduced to $1 million -- after a federal district judge ruled that the insurer had failed to prove that it owed nothing for a house destroyed by the hurricane. The judge, L. T. Senter Jr., also ordered State Farm to pay the full value of the home, $225,000.
 Less than two weeks later, State Farm agreed to settle 640 lawsuits and to reopen as many as 35,000 previously resolved claims for damage. The agreement would have cost State Farm at least $130 million and was expected to jump-start the rebuilding of the Mississippi coast. But a few days later, Judge Senter rejected the agreement, saying he needed more information to determine whether it was fair. 
 Judge Senter has ordered State Farm and a group of trial lawyers to defend their agreement in a hearing on Feb. 28 in Gulfport, Miss. According to court papers, the judge said he was concerned that the agreement did not provide enough money for homeowners. 
 Randy J. Maniloff, a lawyer in Philadelphia who represents insurance companies, said he thought State Farm was sending a message to the court. ''This is a message that we want to stay in this state,'' he said. ''But we simply cannot afford to do so if the legal climate forces us out.''
 State Farm and other insurers had previously stopped selling new policies along the Gulf Coast. But the decision to halt sales throughout Mississippi was the most sweeping retrenchment of any insurance company so far in the state. 
 George Dale, the insurance commissioner in Mississippi, said State Farm's move would further strain the state-run insurance company that provides coverage for homeowners who cannot buy it elsewhere. 
 Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, said it was unlikely that Nationwide, Allstate and other insurers there would pick up the slack. 
 None of the other companies, he said, would want to increase sales in a state that was vulnerable to hurricanes and that promised the ''virtual certainty of expensive litigation'' after a storm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DAMAGES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); VERDICTS (77%); JUDGES (77%); WEATHER (77%); LAWYERS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); COASTAL AREAS (68%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Katrina (Storm); Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: State Farm Insurance Cos

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%)

PERSON: Jim (Atty Gen) Hood; Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



321 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
DAIMLERCHRYSLER COULD SPLIT -- DaimlerChrysler disclosed that it was considering all its options for its struggling Chrysler Group, including a spinoff, as Chrysler announced it would eliminate 13,000 jobs and shut all or part of four plants by 2009. The acquisition of Chrysler by Daimler-Benz was originally touted as a merger of equals but has evolved into an unhappy marriage of opposites. [Page A1.] SUITORS FOR CHRYSLER -- If DaimlerChrysler decided to split up, the American subsidiary could attract many suitors, including private equity firms and overseas manufacturers looking for a North American ally. Market Place. [C4.] QUALITY CIRCLE CENTRAL -- The headquarters for Toyota's corporate culture, known for transforming a small manufacturer into a market-gobbling giant, is the Toyota Institute, a nondescript cluster of buildings in Mikkabi, Japan, where managers come to learn the system. 
[C1.] POSITIVE OUTLOOK FROM BERNANKE -- The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, gave Congress an upbeat view of the economy, predicting that unemployment is likely to remain low even as inflation declines slightly. [C1.] GUILTY PLEA IN OPTIONS CASE -- The founder and former head of Take-Two Interactive, the video game maker, pleaded guilty to falsifying records in a stock-option backdating scheme. [C1.] WITH PROFITS COME CORRUPTION -- Bribery, fraud and other white-collar crime is booming in Germany, said the head of Frankfurt's financial crime unit, because many executives who have benefited from the country's growing economy believe that crime pays. [C1.] ICE CREAM WARS -- A New York investment firm is buying MaggieMoo's International and Marble Slab Creamery, the nation's second- and third-biggest gourmet ice cream chains, in a bid to overtake the No. 1 player, Cold Stone Creamery, according to people involved with the deal. [C3.] PLEASE SPEND IT -- The United States Mint will unveil today the first of its new series of Presidential Dollar coins, and it hopes the new coins don't end up as just another collector's item. [C3.] A CAMEL FOR WOMEN -- R. J. Reynolds Tobacco, eager to increase the sales of its fast-growing Camel brand among women, is introducing a variety aimed at female smokers: Camel No. 9. Advertising, Stuart Elliott. [C9.] DELTA REPORTS LARGER LOSS -- Delta Air Lines, preparing to exit bankruptcy on April 30, said its fourth-quarter net loss widened to $2 billion on the cost of ending its pilots' pension plan. [C5.] STATE FARM PULLS BACK -- State Farm, the largest insurer in Mississippi, said that it had decided to stop selling new policies on homes and small businesses across the state as it faces hundreds of lawsuits over claims from Hurricane Katrina. Jim Hood, above, the Mississippi attorney general, said State Farm had created its own problems. ''If they'd paid what they owed in the first place, there never would have been a lawsuit filed,'' he said. [C2.] COST OF LOWER EMISSIONS -- A new utility industry study argues that it will take decades of investments and innovation to get substantial reductions in their emissions of greenhouse gases. [C2.] TIMES AND MONSTER WORLDWIDE -- The New York Times Company and Monster Worldwide, the operator of the popular job-listing site Monster.com, announced that they were forming an alliance to share brands on the newspaper company's career sites. [C9.] BIG ROLE FOR A TEMP -- Nonprofits and other businesses are hiring temporary finance chiefs to solve a wide variety of difficult problems. Small Business. [C5.] BLOGGERS IN THE COURT -- The perjury trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr. in Washington is the first federal case for which bloggers have been credentialed along with reporters from the traditional media. And no blog covering the trial has attracted as much attention as firedoglake.com. [A1.] REMOVING A TAX ON PLANE TICKETS -- The Bush administration has proposed to eliminate the tax on plane tickets and air cargo shipments, shifting the cost of the air traffic control system largely to user fees and increased taxes on fuel. [A22.] ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.THE FARM EQUIPMENT MAKER Deere & Company posted a bigger-than-expected quarterly profit on Wednesday and raised its earnings outlook for the year, sending its shares up 9 percent. (AP)THE FOOD AND DRUG Administration would have a legal path to approve cheaper, generic copies of biotech medicines under federal legislation unveiled on Wednesday. (REUTERS)THE WOMEN'S CLOTHING and shoe maker Jones Apparel Group posted a quarterly loss yesterday, in contrast to a year-earlier profit, after taking charges to reduce the value of trademarks and other assets. (REUTERS)THE AMERIGROUP CORPORATION, a health insurer specializing in Medicaid plans, said on Wednesday its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled, helped by increased enrollment and a one-time gain. (REUTERS)EQUIFAX, THE CREDIT REPORTING company, said Wednesday it would acquire a payroll-related services firm, the TALX Corporation, for about $1.2 billion in cash and stock. (REUTERS)THE NEW YORK MERCANTILE Exchange is buying a 10 percent stake in the Montreal Exchange, and the two will start a joint venture in Alberta to trade energy derivatives, the exchanges said Wednesday. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks DaimlerChrysler's share price for last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ICE CREAM (89%); COINS & COINAGE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MERGERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); CORPORATE CULTURE (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BRIBERY (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); LITIGATION (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (65%); SMOKING (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); AIRLINES (60%); QUALITY CONTROL (55%); COMPUTER GAMES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (51%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (50%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



322 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: A Health Care Plan So Simple, Even Stephen Colbert Couldn't Simplify It

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Cornell University, is the author of ''The Economic Naturalist,'' which will be published this spring. Contact: www.robert-h-frank.com

 BODY:
In his State of the Union address, President Bush proposed tax cuts to make health insurance more affordable for the uninsured. The next day, Stephen Colbert had this to say on his show on Comedy Central: ''It's so simple. Most people who can't afford health insurance also are too poor to owe taxes. But if you give them a deduction from the taxes they don't owe, they can use the money they're not getting back from what they haven't given to buy the health care they can't afford.''
 Just so. As health economists have long known, market incentives induce private insurers to spend vast sums to avoid people who may actually require health care. This problem is mitigated (though not eliminated) by employer-provided group policies. Because Mr. Bush's proposal would steer people toward individual policies, it would actually strengthen the incentive to shun unhealthy people. Such people can now keep their insurance by not changing jobs. But no private company would want them as individual policyholders at a price anyone could afford. 
That Mr. Bush's proposal will not shrink the ranks of the uninsured is not its most serious problem. Far more troubling is its embrace of a system under which we spend more than twice as much on health care, on average, as the 21 countries in which life expectancy exceeds ours. American costs are so high in part because the reliance on private insurance multiplies administrative expenses, currently about 31 percent of total outlays. 
 Most health economists agree that government-financed reimbursement is the only practical way to control these expenses, many of them stemming from insurers' efforts to identify and avoid unhealthy people. Canada's single-payer health system, which covers everyone, spends less than 17 percent on administrative expenses. 
 Annual health spending in the United States currently exceeds $2 trillion. A single-payer system that did nothing more than reduce administrative expenses to the levels of other countries would save roughly $300 billion annually. 
 Some critics worry that expensive but ineffective medical interventions may proliferate if health care becomes a federal responsibility. But Victor Fuchs, a respected health economist at Stanford University, and Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel, chairman of the department of clinical bioethics at the National Institutes of Health, have outlined a single-payer plan that would limit such interventions far more effectively than the current system. (A copy of their plan is on the links page of my Web site, www.robert-h-frank.com.)
 If the single-payer system embraced by virtually all other developed countries is clearly the best solution, why doesn't the United States adopt it? Some analysts concede its merits, but characterize it as either unaffordable or politically unrealistic. But why should a policy that promises better results for less money be considered a nonstarter?
 There are two obstacles, which could both be overcome by intelligent political leadership. One is that the single-payer system would require additional tax revenue. In the current climate, that's a tough political hurdle, to be sure. Yet how complicated would it be to explain to voters that because the single-payer plan would reduce costs substantially, every additional tax dollar would be offset by an even larger reduction in private insurance spending? Given that such a system is so much cheaper over all, calling it unaffordable makes no sense. 
 The second obstacle is opposition from private insurers, who would be understandably reluctant to abandon multibillion-dollar annual profit streams. Those who stand to lose from policy changes always battle harder than those who stand to gain -- an asymmetry that is exaggerated when losses would be concentrated and gains diffuse. So, yes, the insurance industry would bitterly resist. 
 But intelligent leadership could overcome that resistance. Whenever a pie gets bigger, everyone can get a larger slice than before. Because moving to a single-payer system would make the economic pie bigger, it should be possible for everyone, including the insurance industry, to come out ahead.
 The first step is to acknowledge that insurance companies are not evil, that they invested in good faith under tax laws that favored employer-provided private health insurance. To put them out of business with an overnight switch would be unjust. 
 Even so, they are not entitled to a permanent license to operate a system that has become economically unsustainable. The move to a single-payer plan would save far more than enough to compensate insurance companies for lost profits. Compensation for losses could start at 100 percent, then be gradually phased out as companies shifted investments elsewhere. 
 Selling this argument in an era of 15-second sound bites would be challenging, but hardly impossible. Indeed, forceful advocacy of the single-payer approach offers a golden opportunity for any serious presidential candidate. Voters are fed up with rising insurance costs and dwindling coverage. On the merits, single-payer coverage is an unassailable solution to both problems. Its rationale is simple enough to articulate clearly during a long campaign. And if the proposal were devised so that everyone stood to win, corporate interests would have little reason to attack it.
 Critics of the single-payer plan have long railed against the specter of socialized medicine, suggesting that it means being treated by government functionaries. Yet people who have experienced single-payer coverage firsthand seem unconcerned. When one of my sons needed surgery for a broken arm during a sabbatical in Paris, for example, the medical system we encountered was just as professional as the American one and far less bureaucratic. And in France, which spends half as much on health care as the United States and has more doctors and hospital beds per capita, everyone is covered.
 We live in challenging times. Does a candidate who couldn't persuade voters to embrace the single-payer approach deserve to be president?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BIOETHICS (73%); ETHICS (68%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); STEPHEN COLBERT (90%) Robert H Frank; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



323 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Says Outlook Is Positive

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, gave Congress an upbeat view of the economy on Wednesday, predicting that unemployment was likely to remain low over the next two years even as inflation declined slightly.
 Mr. Bernanke's comments, which suggested that he was comfortable with interest rates at current levels, immediately lifted stock markets. His testimony soothed investors who had begun to worry that the central bank might be tempted to raise the cost of short-term borrowing later this year in fear that a stronger economy would push inflation higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed more than 87 points, or 0.7 percent, to a record of 12,741.86, and the broader S.& P. 500 rose 0.8 percent to hit 1,455.30, its highest point in more than six years. 
 Yields on Treasury bonds edged down slightly, and the dollar lost value against the euro and other major currencies as foreign investors scaled back expectations of higher long-term interest rates.
 Mr. Bernanke, whose one-year anniversary as Fed chairman was on Feb. 1, was careful not to change the Fed's current policy posture, which is to remain more concerned about higher inflation than slower growth. However, he appeared more optimistic that inflationary pressures were receding.
 ''Inflation pressures appear to have abated somewhat,'' Mr. Bernanke told the Senate banking committee, as he delivered the Fed's semiannual outlook on the economy and monetary policy. He will provide similar testimony to the House Financial Services Committee on Thursday.
 ''A waning of the temporary factors that boosted inflation in recent years will probably help foster a continued edging down of core inflation,'' he continued. 
 The Fed's official forecast, an average of forecasts by Fed governors and the Fed's district banks, essentially portrays a ''Goldilocks'' economy that is neither too hot, with inflation, nor too cold, with rising unemployment. 
 But Mr. Bernanke's statements revealed less about changes in the Fed's outlook than about changes in investor assumptions about the Fed. 
 A few months ago, investors were betting that the central bank would reduce rates even though Fed officials offered little hint in that direction. More recently, investors have jumped on evidence of solid economic growth to fret about possible rate increases. 
 In contrast to the changing moods on Wall Street, Mr. Bernanke expressed a broad satisfaction that the nation remained on track for a ''soft landing,'' a modest slowdown in growth that would reduce upward pressure on prices without aggravating unemployment.
 ''The U.S. economy appears to be making a transition from the rapid rate of expansion experienced over the preceding several years to a more sustainable average pace of growth,'' he told lawmakers.
 The ''central tendency'' among Fed forecasts is that the economy will expand by 2.5 to 3 percent this year; that unemployment will remain low at about 4.75 percent, which is near what many economists consider full employment; and for core inflation, excluding energy and food prices, to hover just above 2 percent.
 The forecast calls for slightly slower growth in 2007 than the Fed predicted last summer, but still in line with officials' estimates about the economy's long-run potential growth rate. The lower growth estimate reflected the sharp downturn in the housing market last year, and an expectation that housing would continue to drag down overall growth in 2007.
 It was Mr. Bernanke's second Congressional appearance since Democrats assumed majority control in both the House and Senate last month, and Democrats peppered him with questions about rising income inequality and the growing insecurity they said confronted middle-income families. 
 ''People are working longer and harder, but many are not bringing home enough money to keep pace with what they need,'' said Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the banking committee and a contender for the Democratic presidential nomination.
 But Mr. Bernanke faced little direct criticism himself, and he refrained from weighing in on policy proposals outside of monetary policy.
 When Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, asked whether rising income inequality might be a reason to make the income tax more progressive by imposing higher tax rates on richer taxpayers, the Fed chairman politely but firmly declined to engage. ''I'm afraid my answer is going to disappoint you,'' he said.
 Mr. Bernanke said that last year's slowdown in housing might have stabilized, adding that the weakness in housing had not spilled over to other parts of the economy.
 Contrary to worries raised last year by some economists, consumers did not scale back their spending last year even though homeowners had fewer opportunities to cash in some of the equity in their houses by refinancing mortgages. 
 Still, Mr. Bernanke cautioned that the biggest risk to economic growth was that the housing market would continue to plunge, dragging down consumer spending and investment. Another risk is that energy prices, which have declined sharply in recent months, might climb rapidly again and begin to affect consumer prices in general.
 Mr. Bernanke noted that overall business investment continued to climb and American exports rose faster than imports.
 The Fed chairman said household finances were ''generally solid'' and delinquency rates remained low on consumer loans and mortgages, except for subprime loans that allow people with weak credit to borrow more.
 He said the business sector was in ''excellent financial condition.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicted low unemployment and declining inflation over the next two years. His optimistic view soothed investors, and share prices rose broadly. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INFLATION (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EURO (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FUTURES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Currency; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Federal Reserve System; European Union

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



324 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: School Crime Up 21 Percent In First Third of Fiscal Year

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Major crimes in the New York City public schools increased by 21 percent from July through October of this school year over last, driven by a surge in grand larcenies, according to data released yesterday by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office. 
 There were 197 cases of grand larceny -- typically the theft, without threat or force, of items worth more than $1,000 or of credit cards -- during that period in 2006, up from 119 during the same period in 2005, according to the preliminary Mayor's Management Report, which provides statistics on government performance. Over all, the report showed 348 major crimes in these four months in 2006, compared with 287 in 2005. These 2006 numbers included 18 fewer robberies and one more burglary. 
The report also noted an increase in minor criminal offenses, like misdemeanor assaults, to 983 from 820, and in ''other incidents,'' like trespassing, to 1,926 from 1,614. 
 Public officials said the statistics were cause for concern. ''Clearly, a 21 percent increase in major crimes in schools is a huge increase,'' said City Councilman Robert Jackson, chairman of the Council's Education Committee. ''Of course it's disturbing.''
 But city officials played down the numbers, noting that the bulk of incidents occurred not during summer school but in September and October, when there were 39 school days in 2006, five more than in 2005. 
 In a news release, Mr. Bloomberg focused on the good news, saying crime was down at a group of nine particularly unruly or violent schools that had been assigned extra police officers after being designated ''impact schools.'' 
 ''We are making good on the promise to make schools a safe haven and provide a stable learning environment for students,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in the statement. Crime at the nine impact schools, his office said, dropped 19 percent from July 1 through Jan. 7 over the same period a year earlier, and violent crime 10 percent, compared with the previous school year. 
 John Feinblatt, the city's criminal justice coordinator, attributed the rise in thefts to an increase in portable and coveted equipment like laptop computers. 
 ''The theft of computers, the theft of purses, the theft of pocketbooks, the theft of cellphones, is not stopping teachers from teaching and kids from learning,'' Mr. Feinblatt said. ''We are taking it seriously, but what we take most seriously are crimes that we think interfere with education.'' 
 Mr. Feinblatt said the city was trying to combat the trend, for example by having schools mark their laptop computers with bright colors. ''We're talking about such a small slice of the school year,'' he added. 
 Figures released later in the day also showed that there were 55 sex offenses in schools from July through October 2006, up from 39 a year earlier, while the number of rapes, one, remained stable. 
 Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers -- which has collected more than 4,500 accounts of assaults, verbal harassment and other problems so far this school year -- said the Department of Education had lost sight of school safety. 
 ''There were a couple of years where there was a real focus on safety, and that focus has been eroded,'' Ms. Weingarten said, adding that she suspected that many school crimes went unreported. ''They are sending so many mixed messages to principals. They're sending these messages on paper that safety is important, but in terms of budgeting they're sending the message that if you use your money for tutoring that's better.'' 
 In the news release, Mr. Bloomberg named two newly designated impact schools, both in Queens: Jamaica High School and Campus Magnet, which consists of a collection of small schools. At Campus Magnet, officials said, there were 28 crimes in all through Jan. 7 of this school year, up from 19 last year. At Jamaica, they said, there were 12 violent crimes through Jan. 7, up from eight last year, although the number of total crimes increased by only one, to 23. 
 Two other schools, Christopher Columbus High School in the Bronx and Norman Thomas High School in Manhattan, improved enough to be removed from the impact list. 
 In areas other than the schools, the report, which covered the first four months of the fiscal year that started on July 1, found mostly positive trends, although there were a few exceptions.
 The sharp rise in the number of building permits over the past several years, an often cited indicator of the city's economic growth, may be slowing down. From July to October, 24,612 permits were issued to construct or renovate buildings, a slight dip from 25,911 permits in the same period a year ago. But by the end of the fiscal year on June 30, officials said, they expect the total number of building permits to be roughly equal to or slightly higher than the figure from the last fiscal year.
 Recycling, as measured by tonnage, declined 14 percent from the previous year. The number of families entering the shelter system from July through October was 24 percent higher than in the same period a year before, while the number of single adults entering the system was 6 percent lower. Over all, the average daily shelter census increased by nearly 8 percent for families and fell by 6 percent for single adults.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); CAMPUS SECURITY (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (84%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (84%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (78%); BURGLARY (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ROBBERY (77%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Education and Schools; Crime and Criminals

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Elissa Gootman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2007



325 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Snowmobilers vs. Hikers In the Adirondacks

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
AT the head of the Pine Pond Trail not far from his home in Lake Placid, N.Y., Jim McCulley revved his sleek black Ski-Doo. A fresh snow had fallen overnight, draping the pines that rise on either side, and Mr. McCulley, the head of the local snowmobile club, looked giddy as he set off.
 But his mood instantly soured at the topic of New York State's new plan to reconfigure hundreds of miles of snowmobile trails on public land. The plan introduced last fall strove to balance the needs of environmentalists and hikers with those of snowmobilers but has instead upset many people in both camps.
It is the latest illustration of the constant tension in the Adirondacks -- and many state and national parks -- between those who prefer the quiet, albeit rigorous, contemplation of nature, and those who like to tackle the outdoors with more fossil-fueled gusto. Drawn up by the state Department of Environmental Conservation and the state Office of Parks and Recreation, the plan does not change the mileage in the network of snowmobile trails but proposes reconfiguring them by closing little-used trails in the sensitive interior parts of the forest preserve and opening so-called community connector trails on its periphery. 
 Many snowmobile enthusiasts, known as sledders, say the plan does little to reflect the evolution of their sport, which has witnessed a major increase in the girth of the vehicles as riders seek to travel greater distances. While the new plan would widen some trails to nine feet from eight feet, some sledders had hoped for trails up to 12 feet wide -- raceways, environmentalists sniffed -- to connect communities and allow riders to pass each other safely without slowing down.
 ''It's all about green bigotry,'' Mr. McCulley said. ''You have a group of people who look upon the working class who ride snowmobiles as people who are not capable of enjoying the forest preserve in the proper manner.''
 With most trails in the forest preserve now serving hikers and sledders alike, environmentalists worry that the new plan would turn many trails into de facto roads, noting that it calls for large groomers with treads akin to those on tractors or armored vehicles to smooth certain trails.
 Until recently, specially equipped snowmobiles were used to groom trails, which after a weekend of heavy activity develop uncomfortable moguls. But lately, snowmobile clubs have bought fully tracked vehicles, commonly called snowcats, to do the grooming. That has drawn protests from environmentalists who complain of trees' being cut back and trails' being widened and flattened, making them feel less wild year-round.
 ''The foot trail experience is greatly diminished when you're walking on a dirt road in the sun as opposed to walking on a trail under a canopy,'' said Peter Bauer, executive director of the Residents' Committee to Protect the Adirondacks, a nonprofit group.
 The state agencies drew up the 404-page proposal, officially called the Snowmobile Plan for the Adirondack Park, after several years of public meetings and focus groups with local officials, private landowners, environmentalists and sledders.
 ''The department believes that the plan does provide a balance between the environmental communities and the local communities,'' said Kimberly Chupa, a spokeswoman for the Department of Environmental Conservation. ''This is not an actual plan that has anything defined. It's more of a tool for the future to design the snowmobile trail system. Sort of like a blueprint.''
 Whether plan or blueprint, the recommendations are supposed to inform the decision-making of the Adirondack Park Agency, which governs land use in the six-million-acre park. The agency continually reviews management plans for 38 different sections, or units, of the park, a complex patchwork of private and public lands. Ms. Chupa said the agency would consider whether to remake the snowmobile trails in each unit as its plan comes up for review.
 There are some 840 miles of snowmobile trails in the 2.7-million-acre forest preserve, Ms. Chupa said, with many more on private lands. The state allows snowmobiles on designated trails in parts of the preserve classified as ''wild forest,'' but has kept them out of the more restrictive ''wilderness areas.'' 
 Over the last decade, local officials in the park have seized on the increasing popularity of snowmobiling to pump new life into winter tourism. But they kept hearing from sledders that the trail system in the Adirondacks was lacking; many residents leave the park to tour along the elaborate trail networks of Canada. 
 George Canon, supervisor of the town of Newcomb, praised the plan for recognizing ''for the first time the economic impact that snowmobiling has on the communities of the Adirondacks.'' He predicted that the plan's call for improved ''community connectors'' and ''town-to-town networks'' would benefit the ''Adirondack economy during the long winter months.''
 SNOWMOBILES have become a flashpoint in the West, especially in Yellowstone National Park. The vehicles were banned at the end of the Clinton administration, which instead favored snow-coaches -- vans or buses on large skis or treads. But the Bush administration reversed that decision and, amid lawsuits from environmental groups, has done four environmental studies over the last five years to examine snowmobile use.
 The latest study, a preliminary document released in December, would maintain the current limit of 720 snowmobiles a day in Yellowstone, even though current daily use hovers around 250. The park does, however, require that all snowmobiles use noise- and pollution-control technology and that sledders travel with guides, who enforce strict rules.
 In New York, it is unclear when, or even if, the snowmobile plan for the Adirondacks will be implemented. Since its release, it has become bogged down in a thicket of technical and legal issues.
 Two elements appear to conflict with the Adirondack Park State Land Master Plan, the 1972 document that lays out use and zoning rules for the public land in the park. The creation of nine-foot trails, for example, runs headlong into the master plan's decree that snowmobile trails must have the character of a foot path. The Department of Environmental Conservation's policy defines a foot trail as a path not more than eight feet wide. And the master plan clearly prohibits the use of the large groomers on trails, though in recent years some groups have used them anyway. (Groomers are permitted on designated roads in the preserve that allow snowmobiles.)
 Now both camps are wrangling over language in the master plan that allows ''administrative personnel'' to operate motorized vehicles in the preserve for ''necessary maintenance.'' Historically, ''administrative personnel'' was interpreted to mean state employees. But the new snowmobile plan would let members of snowmobile clubs operate tracked groomers on certain trails on a regular basis. Ms. Chupa of the Department of Environmental Conservation said the permission ''has to do with our interpretation of what administrative personnel means,'' adding, however, that the Adirondack Park Agency is the ''final arbiter regarding interpretation'' of the master plan. 
 Keith McKeever, a spokesman for the Adirondack Park Agency, said the plan was ''conceptual only and not legally binding.''
 ''At this point in time we're bound by the State Land Master Plan as it's written,'' he said, ''and we're making our decisions in accordance with the plan.''
 Environmental groups argue that the introduction of the larger groomers in the preserve would require revision of the master plan. They seem confident that the extensive public hearings and environmental scrutiny inherent in that process would pose an insurmountable hurdle. 
 Beyond the possible impact on the trails, some environmentalists also complain about the air pollution and noise snowmobiles create.
 ''In the 1970s and early 1980s, there was a cheerful coexistence between cross-country skiers and snowmobilers,'' said Neil Woodworth, executive director of the Adirondack Mountain Club, a nonprofit group. ''But with the more powerful engines, they're operating much faster, and they just sort of dominate the trail network. When you have a number of sleds, the stench is such that the backcountry atmosphere is lost.''
 In recent years, forest rangers and state environmental officers have cracked down on both town officials and snowmobile club members who have illegally widened snowmobile trails and erected bridges on public property to make way for bigger sleds.
 But Mr. McCulley, the head of the snowmobile club here in Lake Placid, has undertaken his own campaign to show the destruction of trails by hikers and skiers. He has posted videotapes on YouTube of trails in spring, when hordes of hikers leave them looking like ribbons of mud. Other snowmobile enthusiasts, though less critical of the plan, feel that they gave more than they got. ''Right from the start we knew it was all about compromise, and they threw compromise out the window,'' said Jim Jennings, executive director of the New York State Snowmobile Association, referring to environmental groups.
 Mr. Jennings, who wanted the community connector trails to measure at least 10 feet across, believes snowmobilers compromised on safety. ''Snowmobiles are four feet wide,'' he said. ''There's a lot more traffic, and you have two four-foot-wide snowmobiles meeting each other on the trail.''
 With declining snowfalls in recent years, some environmentalists have their eye on what they see as a greater threat -- all-terrain vehicles, which are now banned from all state lands in the park.
 ''If, because of climate change, snowmobiling is less likely as a recreational use, there will be great political pressure to allow A.T.V.'s in the forest preserve,'' Mr. Woodworth said. ''And A.T.V. enthusiasts like the power and speed and spitting mud. It's almost like a war on the environment.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: POWER GLIDE -- Navigating the Pine Pond Trail. (Photo by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 CONFLICT -- Jim McCulley says environmentalists are impinging on snowmobilers' rights to expand trails in the Adirondack Park. (Photographs by Nancie Battaglia for The New York Times)(pg. F5)Map of New York State highlighting Adirondack Park. (pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNOWMOBILING (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MOUNTAINS (90%); STATE PARKS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); HIKING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); PLANT CONSERVATION (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%) Snowmobiles; Walking 

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Adirondack Mountains

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



326 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Tighter Rules for Air Tours

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
GETTING to a vacation destination on a scheduled airline is extremely safe. But flying as part of the vacation -- like taking a tour of one of the Hawaiian islands or the Grand Canyon in a small plane or helicopter -- can be another story. Regulation is so primitive that federal officials say that among the hundreds of small aircraft crashes every year, it is often difficult to determine which ones involve tours.
 But earlier this month the Federal Aviation Administration published a rule that is meant to narrow the safety gap. The provisions will begin taking effect late this year. 
One of the biggest changes is that private pilots will have to have at least 500 hours of experience before they are allowed to provide tours on behalf of fund-raising events. Under the old rules they needed 200 hours. And everyone who flies tours will have to tell the F.A.A.
 The National Transportation Safety Board's records list more than 150 air-tour-related accidents in the United States since January 2000 (including 21 in Arizona, 16 in Alaska and 15 in Hawaii, three of the most popular states for these kinds of tours), with more than two dozen of them involving fatalities. Helicopter crashes make up more than half of the 150.
 Air tours have inherent safety disadvantages compared with airline flights; generally, the helicopter or small plane has only one pilot and one engine. The tours are conducted close to terrain -- in fact, that is usually the point, and the more rugged the terrain the better. But that may mean there is no place to land in an emergency. And the skies may be crowded. There is rarely an air traffic controller playing traffic cop.
 The new rule applies only to airplanes and helicopters; it does not cover balloons, gliders, gyrocopters or parachutes, common at some vacation destinations. 
 The rule makes clear that pilots in more established tour operations will have to have the same drug and alcohol tests that commercial airline pilots do. Some helicopters will eventually have to have floats so they can land on water, if they are operating along rugged shorelines where there is no safe place to land.
 On Tuesday, the Safety Board issued a report on a helicopter crash off the island of Kauai in September 2005, in which three passengers drowned. The board said the cause of the crash was the pilot's flying into a severe downpour, common in the area, but also pointed out that floats on the helicopter would have helped. 
 Also on Tuesday, the board concluded an investigation into a September 2004 helicopter crash on Kauai; in that case, the pilot flew into a mountain, killing himself and all four passengers. It said the reason for that crash was the pilot's decision to fly into an area of turbulence and reduced visibility.
 But the board also said that the Kauai tours operated from an airport with no buildings or bathrooms, and between tours the pilots typically sat in their helicopters with the rotors turning, to reduce wear on the engines. Seven or eight hours of sitting in a helicopter a day ''likely had an adverse impact on pilot decision-making and performance,'' the board said. 
 The F.A.A. regulated the helicopter operation under sketchy rules used mostly for private aviation, the board pointed out. Under the new system, that operation will be overseen under standards somewhat closer to commercial airline rules. 
 The rule tightens requirements slightly for a group formerly exempted from many regulations, those with aircraft that take off and land in the same spot, and stay within a 25-mile radius. In a new requirement, pilots in that group will have to have a commercial, not private, license, and have drug and alcohol tests. They will have to carry life preservers and give safety briefings to passengers (''insert the flat metal end into the buckle '' ). And they will have to obtain a ''letter of authorization,'' which will allow the F.A.A. to track them.
 ''These folks are almost sometimes nomadic,'' said Alberta Brown, an official of the F.A.A.'s flight standards service. ''It's hard to find them. They go from air show to air show.'' With a record of who they are and what equipment they fly, the F.A.A. can determine how to inspect their operations, she said.
 Under the new rules pilots who fly for a charity or a community event still do not undergo drug and alcohol tests, although ''they're still supposed to be sober,'' said John Allen, deputy director of flight standards. Those flying for charities are limited to four events a year, with each lasting no more than three days; those flying for community events could fly only once a year. 
 ''We got the sense this could be a cottage industry that could grow unwieldy,'' Mr. Allen said. But the agency has a soft spot for barnstorming, vintage aircraft and other attractions of country air shows. 
 ''Private pilots take kids up for rides, maybe the first ride of their lives,'' said Mr. Allen. ''We didn't want to do anything that would compromise that capability.'' 
 The rule as originally proposed would have required aircraft to stay farther away from cliffs, mountains and other sights. But the F.A.A. heeded industry complaints and dropped some of its more onerous requirements. The agency also dropped a requirement for life preservers on helicopters that will carry floats.
 Agency economists estimate that the rule will cost the industry $29 million, much of it for floats for helicopters flying along rugged shorelines, and that it could prevent 17 fatalities and 8 serious injuries over the next decade. 
 Ms. Brown said that the F.A.A.'s new rules met all but one of the recommendations laid out by the National Transportation Safety Board more than a decade ago after numerous investigations into tour crashes. (The board has not commented on the new rule.) The one it failed to meet, Ms. Brown said, was to promulgate the rule by 1995. In fact, she said, the agency has been working on the rule for 17 years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: TURBULENCE -- Helicopters have accounted for more than half of U.S. air-tour accidents since 2000. (Photo by Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); HELICOPTERS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); DRUG TESTING (50%) Helicopters; Airlines and Airplanes; Accidents and Safety; Pilots; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (56%) Federal Aviation Administration

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



327 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Blasts Of Color, Evoking Memories

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
The Howard Hodgkin show at the Yale Center for British Art in New Haven is about as beautiful an exhibition of new paintings as I have seen in a while.
 It surveys work from the last 15 years or so by this Londoner, a veteran abstractionist and voluptuary. If there are weak pictures, they're few and far between: the selection looks smart, the installation immaculate.
I wonder how Mr. Hodgkin reacts to words like ''beautiful,'' ''voluptuary'' and ''immaculate.'' He has bristled at being called an intimist, which years ago became his burden in the way that ''colorist'' became a knock on Bonnard. Mr. Hodgkin now makes some very big pictures, while he continues to make very small ones, sometimes decorative (another standard put-down), but more often tough and muscular. The ravishment of color belies the ambition; only occasionally does it undermine it. As the film critic Anthony Lane, a longtime admirer of Mr. Hodgkin's, points out in the show's catalog, Mr. Hodgkin has been, on the one hand, ''applauded as a Chardin de nos jours and, on the other, scorned as a kind of advanced interior decorator.'' 
 He asks, ''Is Howard Hodgkin an artist of the small scale?'' Then he answers his own question: No, he is ''an extremist.'' 
 That's a surprising way to describe a careful painter, but I know what he means. Mr. Hodgkin is not a small-scale painter, even when his pictures are small; he can be uneven, but his best work is, in a sly, almost deceptive way, what serious abstraction ought to be about. 
 It is inspired by memories or ''emotional situations,'' as Mr. Hodgkin says. He rarely reveals what these are. His titles hint teasingly at them. He's a reader, a collector, an expert on Indian miniatures, a widely curious consumer and an assimilator of art history. His paintings are full of more or less buried allusions. 
 There's an oval picture in the show called ''When in Rome,'' whose braided swirls of red (the color of dried blood) summoned to mind Borromini -- with a vertiginous patch of turquoise sky, as if cribbed from a Baroque ceiling. In ''Clarendon Road,'' a picture of a house in London belonging to Mr. Hodgkin's cousins (not that you could tell, or that it really matters), the reference looks to be Matisse, or maybe Vuillard. Its petals of green and red flutter like leaves in a high wind, with gray clouds massing on the horizon.
 Memory gives to Mr. Hodgkin's work its undercurrents of yearning and melancholy. Antoinette Isnard, Bonnard's housekeeper, once recalled how Bonnard, late in life, would wait to paint the flowers she picked for him so that ''the flower would wilt,'' because, ''he said, that way they would have more presence.'' There is, I think, something of this same impulse in the septuagenarian Mr. Hodgkin.
 The nearly 50 paintings in the Yale exhibition -- not too many, nor too few -- hang with no regard to chronology, which makes sense. The work hasn't much changed, save for a broad shift in the early '90s toward bolder gestures, more rambunctious colors and larger panels. Dates are deceptive, anyway. Sometimes Mr. Hodgkin will labor for years over what looks like a single brush mark produced in an instant. Just as his small works pack a wallop disproportionate to their size, the illusion of speed derives from a slow, deliberative and economical process that isn't what you might assume. 
 His images are tricky to describe, alternately acidic, juiced-up, hushed, velvety, precious like a jewel box. Texture varies markedly, it being the content and structure of Mr. Hodgkin's abstractions, as it is for a very different painter, Robert Ryman, a point the critic Rob Storr once made. Before his pint-size ''After Degas,'' I steadied my gaze against blasts of color. Views, like window frames or blinds or proscenium arches, are devised through which to glimpse scenes that are evocative but tantalizingly illegible. 
 Here, Mr. Hodgkin has slathered green onto a cheap frame, as he frequently does, incorporating the frames as objects and also making the pictures seem to spill out, uncontainably, beyond their edges.
 Then the green corrals tight, thinly brushed loops of orange, conjuring up Degas's late bathers. Fingerprints in the paint are Mr. Hodgkin's, nodding to childish daubing. A patch of blue sky bleeds into the swells of orange. How remarkable, Mr. Hodgkin seems to say, that the same mark might connote a gust of wind or a tire track or the curve of a naked woman's back. 
 ''Mud'' brooded in a nearby corner of the room. Painted on a small, knotty board of weathered wood, about the size of a sheet of legal paper, it consists of dry green swipes bounding a splash of black, which rhymes with the lines in the wood made by the knots. Somber and exquisitely spare, a Whistlerian wisp of nocturnal effects, it evokes deep space.
 The show feels at home in the British Art Center. Mr. Hodgkin owes debts to British pillars like Constable and Turner, along with Whistler. ''After Samuel Palmer,'' a recent picture, pays explicit homage to another Briton, its clashing colors flirting, as Palmer did, with an ugliness that aspires to fresh beauty. 
 Mr. Hodgkin's pictures also seem in spatial tandem with Louis Kahn's architecture here, full as they are of implied volumes and planes. A few temporary walls have been papered in gold, which sounds appalling but isn't. In changing daylight, the color shifts subtly, toward beige or brown, in the way that colors in Mr. Hodgkin's pictures also shift. I stood back from ''Autumn,'' a big picture akin to one of Joan Mitchell's ecstatic late works, with its red embers flickering before a field of green and white. When I moved closer, the red separated itself into licks of pink and purple, the field receding as layered scrims of color.
 The big paintings sometimes flop. One called ''The Body in the Library,'' matte, with clunky blocks of color and gray scumblings, a la Philip Guston, is a static, hulking mass. ''A Visit to Paul and Bernard,'' the earliest work in the show, framed in treacly blue and jammed with fussy gestures, struggles to justify its size. Gesture, in Mr. Hodgkin's small paintings, exceeds its bounds. In the bigger pictures, these same gestures can look diminished. It's the difference between size and scale.
 And some small ones don't quite come off as more than stylish gestures. How, as a culture, we got ourselves into a mind-set whereby beauty is suspect and elegance seems a weakness is a long story. Mr. Hodgkin points us toward an older, Romantic ideal, which involves the redolent fragment or vignette. Works like ''Keep It Quiet,'' painted on an old furrowed cutting board, red and orange, as warm and luminous as the sun and soft as baby skin, or ''Old Sky,'' clotted, its frame stippled in gold, liquid and ripe, negotiate a kind of understanding between human and natural affairs. 
 I ended up at ''Grief,'' which does the same. In it a dark blue tidal wave of wide brush strokes nearly obscures white and orange bursts that, in the context of grief, imply resurrection. It's a gorgeous picture, and sad. Dark blue frames the image, like a mourning wreath. We register pleasure but also the loss of pleasure, its evanescence. 
 Constable talked about ''melancholy grandeur.'' Mr. Hodgkin conjures up the same phrase. ''Howard Hodgkin: Paintings 1992-2007'' runs through April 1 at the Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street, New Haven; (877) 274-8278 or www.ycba.yale.edu.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Hodgkin: Paintings 1992-2007 -- At the Yale Center for British Art through April 1. Above, ''After Degas'' (1993). (Photo by Howard Hodgkin/Gagosian Gallery)(pg. E33)
 Works like ''Keep It Quiet'' (2000-1) negotiate a kind of understanding between human and natural affairs. (Photo by collection of Julian Barnes)(pg. E41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART HISTORY (73%); HISTORY (70%); MOVIE REVIEWS (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); WEATHER (60%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Yale Center for British Art

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (58%) Michael Kimmelman; Howard Hodgkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



328 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Art in Review; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Art and Space -- Park Place and the Beginning of the Paula Cooper Gallery

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER

 BODY:
Archives of American Art1285 Avenue of the Americas, at 51st StreetThrough Feb. 23
 If SoHo in the 1960s has been mythologized into a contemporary art utopia, you need only peruse documents relating to Park Place and the early days of the Paula Cooper Gallery, acquired recently by the Archives of American Art and on view in their New York office, to gain a fuller perspective. 
Park Place started in 1963 when artists including Mark di Suvero, Robert Grosvenor and Edwin Ruda began exhibiting work on the top floor of the building that held their studios in Lower Manhattan. The arrangement was eventually moved and formalized in an 8,000-square-foot space on West Broadway financed by collectors, like Vera and Albert List, who paid the gallery's expenses in exchange for one work by each artist each year. Park Place closed in 1967, and Paula Cooper, its director and president at the time, opened a space on Prince Street, the first commercial gallery in SoHo.
 Hand-drawn schematics, photographs taken at openings and programs for events like the 1966 performance of Steve Reich's ''Four Pianos'' paint a picture of Park Place as an active nonprofit artist cooperative. Invoices and legal contracts show the prosaic side.
 Then there are letters, like the one addressed to Ms. Cooper in which the artist David Novros complains that Park Place's members ''incessantly spew dogma which, for some reason, is gobbled up by the various chroniclers about town and comes out as some sort of group manifesto.'' Park Place, for Mr. Novros, ''isn't a shrine or a panacea and I have always detested fraternity houses so what can a gallery be?''
 In other words, the New York art world has always behaved like any constellation of people, with intermittent bouts of cooperation and conflict. Yet, when you see a copy of Ms. Cooper's rent bill for October 1968, for the sum of $380, it is hard not to hold onto the idea of SoHo as a lost art utopia, even after adjusting for inflation. MARTHA SCHWENDENER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (66%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART (94%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%) Archives of American Art (Smithsonian Institution)

PERSON: Martha Schwendener; Paula Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



329 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Option Lies May Be Costly For Directors

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
For companies that played games with employee stock options, the possible penalties are growing. New rulings in Delaware indicate that directors would be personally liable if options were wrongly issued.
 And the Internal Revenue Service has decided that employees who innocently cashed in backdated options in 2006 face a soaring tax bill. The agency has given companies two weeks to decide whether to pick up the tax for the workers.
That means directors must decide whether to spend corporate assets on bailing out workers, possibly angering shareholders, or leave the workers to shoulder huge tax bills. 
 In two rulings issued this month, Chancellor William B. Chandler III of the Delaware Chancery Court made it clear that the backdating of options was illegal. That was no surprise, but he went on to say that the same applied to ''spring loading,'' the practice of issuing options just before the release of good news.
 ''It is difficult to conceive of an instance, consistent with the concept of loyalty and good faith, in which a fiduciary may declare that an option is granted at 'market rate' and simultaneously withhold that both the fiduciary and the recipient knew at the time that those options would quickly be worth much more,'' Chancellor Chandler wrote. 
 That decision creates the possibility of significant liability for directors, particularly those on compensation committees. Issuing options is an area over which they had specific authority.
 And since the decisions came in suits filed by shareholders of Tyson Foods and Maxim Integrated Products, they open the way to similar suits by owners of other companies.
 Chancellor Chandler's opinions go well beyond anything that the Securities and Exchange Commission has said. The S.E.C. has denounced backdating, the practice of saying an option was issued earlier than it was, when the share price was lower. It has forced companies to restate financial results and pay penalties.
 But on spring loading, the only official comments from the commission have come from its chief accountant, who said there was no need to revise accounting, and from one commissioner, Paul S. Atkins, who suggested that the practice was just fine with him.
 ''Isn't the grant a product of the exercise of business judgment by the board?'' he asked in a speech last year. ''For example, a board may approve an options grant for senior management ahead of what is expected to be a positive quarterly earnings report. In approving the grant, the directors may determine that they can grant fewer options to get the same economic effect because they anticipate that the share price will rise. Who are we to second-guess that decision? Why isn't that decision in the best interests of the shareholders?''
 Chancellor Chandler, without mentioning Mr. Atkins, had an answer for him. It is possible that a decision to issue spring-loaded options ''would be within the rational exercise of business judgment,'' he wrote. But, he added, that could be true only if the decision were ''made honestly and disclosed in good faith.'' No such disclosures were made by spring-loading companies.
 Chancellor Chandler's opinion counts because Delaware is where most major companies are incorporated. He cleared the way for a suit against Tyson directors who approved options that appear to have been spring loaded, although that has not been proved.
 He also ruled that companies could not use the statute of limitations to avoid such suits. Even if the options were issued years ago, the fact that the directors hid the practice means that they can be sued now, when the facts have come out.
 The tax issue stems from a law that took effect in 2005 regarding deferred compensation. It was not aimed at backdated options, but the I.R.S. says it applies to them if they were vested -- that is, if the employee got the right to exercise them -- after the end of 2004. Options can vest up to five years after they are issued, so some old option grants are partly covered.
 If a taxpayer exercised such an option in 2006, the effective tax rate rises from 35 percent of the profits to 55 percent, and interest penalties could make the figure even higher.
 The I.R.S. gave companies until Feb. 28 to notify it if the company would pay the excess taxes for employees who exercised such options last year, and said the employees must be notified by March 15.
 Directors of companies that issued backdated or spring-loaded options may now try to shift the blame. One can imagine directors contending they were deceived by executives or by corporate counsel, and that they, not the directors, should pay.
 Personal liability, in other words, can concentrate a director's mind.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William B. Chandler III 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACCOUNTING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); VERDICTS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); ETHICS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Fines (Penalties); Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Taxation; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS INC (54%); TYSON FOODS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

TICKER: MXIM (NASDAQ) (54%); TSN (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (54%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (54%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (54%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (54%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris; William B 3d (Chancellor) Chandler

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



330 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Fall in More Than Half of Nation's Biggest Markets

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Prices for single-family homes fell in more than half of the nation's 149 biggest metropolitan areas in the last three months of 2006, according to data released yesterday by a trade group for real estate agents.
 The figures from the National Association of Realtors show that the housing market weakened noticeably in many parts of the country at the end of last year and indicate that suggestions by some industry officials that the market has hit bottom could be premature. In the previous quarter, prices fell in one-third of all metropolitan areas. 
The biggest price declines were concentrated primarily in two kinds of cities: the formerly booming markets along the coasts and in the Southwest, and in Midwest and Northeast cities hurting from the loss of manufacturing jobs. The biggest declines, for instance, were in Florida -- Sarasota-Bradenton (down 18 percent), Palm Bay-Melbourne (17 percent) and Cape Coral-Fort Myers (11.7 percent). The declines in prices were especially steep for condominiums.
 ''You have two kinds of weakness here: there is the traditional economic-driven weakness in parts of the Midwest, and there is the bubble-bursting weakness,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs. ''That's what is bringing down the national home price appreciation rate.''
 Among the 10 cities with the biggest declines was New Orleans, which has struggled with a slow pace of reconstruction since Hurricane Katrina hit the area in August 2005. Median prices -- half the homes sold for more and half for less -- fell 9.3 percent there, to $162,100. Mr. Hatzius said the decline in New Orleans might also reflect a correction, because prices there shot up in the months after the hurricane.
 Nationally, the median price of single-family homes fell 2.7 percent, to $219,300.
 Atlantic City and Salt Lake City topped the list of metropolitan regions where prices increased in the fourth quarter. Broadly speaking, prices were strongest in the Northwest and in some parts of the South. 
 At the same time, the number of homes sold fell in 40 states and in the District of Columbia. Nevada and Florida each reported declines of more than 30 percent; in Arizona, Virginia and the District of Columbia, sales fell by more than 20 percent. Nationwide, sales fell 10.1 percent in the fourth quarter from the same period in 2005, to an annual pace of 6.24 million.
 Sales increased in six states -- Alaska, Mississippi, Kentucky, Texas, Arkansas and Illinois -- and were flat in Utah. The Realtors did not have enough data on sales in Idaho, New Hampshire and Vermont.
 In addition to weaker sales and declining prices, the number of homes on the market has been climbing. That suggests, economists say, that prices may have to fall further for sales to pick up and the overall housing market to recover. In the fourth quarter, the vacancy rate for owner-occupied homes was 2.7 percent, up from 2 percent a year before and the highest it has been since the Census Bureau started compiling the data in 1956.
 ''That means we have got a while before this thing fully adjusts,'' said Edward Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. Mr. Leamer noted that individual sellers often preferred to wait rather than cut the price to a level that would be agreeable to most buyers. That gap between seller and buyer is reflected in the decline in sales and the buildup in the number of homes sitting vacant.
 Still, the Realtors group said it expected home sales and prices to rise in the spring. ''Home sales are leveling at historically high levels, and examination of data within the quarter shows home prices stabilizing toward the end,'' David Lereah, the group's chief economist, said in a statement.
 Unlike some other sources of data, the Realtors group does not adjust home prices to reflect changes in the kinds of homes being sold. So if this year's sales include a larger number of cheaper homes, compared with a year ago, it will appear that home prices are falling even if the actual price of any given home has not declined.
 Some indexes, including one compiled by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, the federal agency that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, do take into account the kinds of homes sold. The government index shows that prices were still rising through the third quarter of 2006, albeit at a far slower pace than in 2005.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shawn Mann working on a home in Florence, Ore. Home prices were relatively strong in the Northwest and parts of the South, but the number of homes sold fell in 40 states and in the District of Columbia. (Photo by Ty Wright/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Cross-Country Drop''Sales of existing homes declined in 40 states in the 4th quarter of 2006 compared with the 4th quarter of 2005.Percentage change in salesREGIONAL United States: -10.1%Northeast: - 6.6Midwest: - 8.6South: - 8.5West: -17.8LARGEST DECLINESNevada: -36.1%Florida: -30.8Arizona: -26.9Virginia: -26.2California: -21.3(Source by National Association of Realtors)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Boom-and-Bust Housing Prices''In the fourth quarter, prices of homes increased the most in the Northwest and some parts of the South. They fell most sharply in the Midwest and in the formerly booming cities on the coasts and in the Southwest.Map of the United States showing the increase in median prices for existing homes in the fourth quarter, 2005-6.Map of the United States showing the decrease in median prices for existing homes in the fourth quarter, 2005-6.(Source by National Association of Realtors)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); HURRICANES (64%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (93%) National Assn of Realtors

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (56%) MIDWEST USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Southwestern States (US); Midwestern States (US); Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



331 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Antiques; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1092 words

BYLINE: By Wendy Moonan

 BODY:
Not Just Horses, Mind You, From George Stubbs 
 Art critics have long relegated George Stubbs (1724-1806) to the category of sporting painter. This British artist did make his living primarily by painting aristocrats' favorite horses, though that's not all he did.
 ''No other 18th-century British painter who was so successful in his own lifetime was so quickly forgotten after his death,'' Denise Allen, associate curator of the Frick Collection, writes in an essay about Stubbs, which appears in the museum's current magazine for its members.
On Wednesday the Frick opened an exhibition of 17 Stubbs paintings, the first Stubbs show in a New York museum. The pictures, all borrowed from British collections, include oil paintings of the English countryside, people, exotic animals, dogs and, yes, horses.
 The show is part of a larger exhibition organized in 2006 by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, England, Stubbs's birthplace, to mark the bicentenary of his death. Last year it was on view at Tate Britain in London. 
 ''The show will introduce Stubbs to New York as a really great artist,'' Colin B. Bailey, chief curator at the Frick, said. ''You can't see his work in public collections here. The quality is as great as Memling or Goya.''
 Stubbs seems destined to have become a horse painter. The son of a currier and leather-dresser, he was brought up among horses and hides. He was a self-taught artist, and so successful that he was painting portraits by the age of 21. 
 He made his mark with the publication in 1766 of ''The Anatomy of the Horse,'' a compilation of precise drawings he made while spending 18 grueling months dissecting horses. It was ''the most accurate compendium of equine anatomy up to that time,'' Ms. Allen writes in her essay. 
 He also won some important early commissions, including one that is on view at the Frick: a 1762 oil portrait of Molly Longlegs, a thoroughbred racehorse being held by a jockey in an idealized landscape. It is an actual portrait, painted the year Molly was retired from racing (which may explain why the saddle and girth lie on the ground, a strange addition to the composition).
 ''The immaculate brushwork captures the gleam of Molly's muscles and the texture of her coat,'' Ms. Allen said. ''This is a record picture of a horse that has just finished a run. You know where she has been.''
 Stubbs painted Molly while he was working on ''The Anatomy,'' Ms. Allen noted. 
 ''Limpidity is not Stubbs,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''You can see the distillation and clarity, the humanity -- and the respect for animals and the people who handled them.''
 ''Mares and Foals in a River Landscape'' is also from the 1760s, when Stubbs did most of his best work. It was a commission from a man who did not own thoroughbreds, so Stubbs was able to arrange a group of idealized horses in a friezelike composition. A white mare on the right offsets two brown mares and their nursing foals to the left.
 ''For once he got to pick the colors of the horses and could put them in an imaginary landscape,'' Ms. Allen said. ''There is a natural sense of painterly rhythm here and a bravura to the dramatic foreshortening of the foals.''
 These are the kinds of pictures that paid the bills.
 Yet Stubbs regretted that ''he was pigeonholed as a horse painter,'' Alex Kidson, a curator of the Walker in Liverpool, writes in a booklet that accompanies the show. ''He made constant attempts both to widen his repertory and to design his works according to classical principles. But his efforts were not always appreciated.''
 Two companion paintings in the show, summer and fall farming scenes, focus on people and are part of this wider repertory. ''Haymakers'' and ''Reapers'' were probably not commissions, as they were found in Stubbs's house at the time of his death. Perhaps inspired by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, both paintings are oil on wood from 1785. 
 Mr. Kidson writes about the ''immense vividness'' of Stubbs's depictions of workers: ''Their poses, costumes and expressions are closely observed, and they are painted with a precise economy, which, with seemingly little effort but great art, conveys that these are 'real' people.''
 In ''Haymakers'' men and women rake and hoist hay onto a horse-drawn cart. The only person not participating is a woman in the center. 
 ''The action pivots round the woman, who is posed at the center like a classical goddess,'' Ms. Allen writes. ''She looks out, inviting the viewer to witness activities that, through ritualistic repetition, have become as intrinsic to nature as are the seasons.''
 The farmers wear their Sunday best. 
 ''They are impeccably dressed,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''There is not a stain on a coat. What kind of farmers are they?''
 Ms. Allen said the pictures ''would have been understood as an idealized vision romanticizing a past that never existed.''
 Mr. Kidson, the Liverpool curator, said in an interview: ''These are the only pictures Stubbs showed in his native town during his lifetime. He was trying to ennoble and idealize the figures. He was not showing the poverty and hardship that afflicted many rural workers at this epoch. He admires them and makes them inhabit their worlds. Other artists at the time painted them as ragged urchins to make them more picturesque.''
 In ''Reapers'' men and women gather and bind sheaves of wheat, while a supervisor on horseback looks on.
 ''Stubbs did many on-site drawings and it's clear he sat in fields watching the way the sun moves through grown wheat,'' Ms. Allen said. 
 Despite the sunshine there is a slightly threatening tone to this beautiful landscape.
 ''There is an obvious narrative in 'Reapers' of a possible affair between the man on horseback and the woman at the far left, observed with anger by their partners,'' Mr. Kidson writes.
 ''In every painting Stubbs did of people or animals, there is always an implied narrative, the beginning of a story line,'' Ms. Allen said.
 ''We do not need to spend a long time in the company of Stubbs's art to realize it is carefully considered and plotted,'' Mr. Kidson said. ''It is not spontaneous or whimsical. The painting is intended to be read and its meaning uncovered, and if these meanings are elusive and ambiguous that too is because Stubbs wants it that way.''
 The show's intimate scale allows a viewer to focus on Stubbs's gifts as a painter, Ms. Allen suggests, one whose works celebrate the relationship between nature and art. ''With their extraordinary quality,'' she added, ''these pictures deserve a lot of time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Frick: ''Molly Longlegs'' (1762), painted by George Stubbs while he was also working on detailed drawings for a study of horse anatomy. (Photo by Walker Art Gallery/National Museums Liverpool) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); HORSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); HORSE RACING (78%); ANIMALS (78%) Art

ORGANIZATION: Frick Collection (NYC)

PERSON: Wendy Moonan; George (1724-1806) Stubbs

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (71%) Liverpool (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



332 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 401 words

PERSON: Walter Sondheim Jr.

HEADLINE: Walter Sondheim Jr., 98, Leader in Baltimore Renewal

BYLINE: By GARY GATELY

 BODY:
Walter Sondheim Jr., a longtime Baltimore civic leader who played crucial roles in desegregating the city's schools and redeveloping its downtown, died yesterday in Baltimore. He was 98. 
 The cause was pneumonia, said Dan Collins, a spokesman for Mercy Medical Center.
Mr. Sondheim's influence, both in highly visible roles and behind the scenes, had been a powerful force in the city for more than half a century. 
 In 1954, as president of the Baltimore school board, he pushed for the speedy desegregation of city schools after the landmark Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, even as other cities employed delaying tactics. 
 He was best known nationally for his pivotal role in the revival of downtown Baltimore, which transformed a moribund port city into a model of urban renaissance through projects like Charles Center and the redevelopment of the Inner Harbor.
 Until last week, colleagues said, he continued to show up at his office as senior adviser at the Greater Baltimore Committee, the business advocacy group he helped found in 1955. The office overlooks the once rat-infested harbor basin where Harborplace, the National Aquarium and the Maryland Science Center now line the brick promenades. 
 In that office, and in those of several other jobs, Mr. Sondheim served as sage and consensus builder, specializing in assembling public-private partnerships for redevelopment.
 Among his many posts were those of chairman of the Baltimore Housing Authority, director of the Baltimore Urban League and chairman of Charles Center-Inner Harbor Management, the nonprofit organization that oversaw the Inner Harbor's development. 
 Born in Baltimore in 1908, Mr. Sondheim graduated from Haverford College in Haverford, Pa., in 1929. He worked four decades at Hochschild, Kohn & Company, a Baltimore department store that branched into the suburbs, before retiring as a senior vice president in 1970. 
 The retirement proved short-lived, and Mr. Sondheim soon threw himself into efforts to renew housing and the port. First as a member, then as president, of the State Board of Education in the 1990s, Mr. Sondheim pressed for more accountability for failing schools throughout the state. 
 In 1934, Mr. Sondheim married Janet E. Blum, who died in 1992. He is survived by two children, John W. Sondheim and Ellen S. Dankert, both of Baltimore; two grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Sondheim Jr. (Photo by Tracey Brown) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (74%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (56%); SUPREME COURTS (55%); APPEALS (55%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Gary Gately

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%) MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



333 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans's New Setback: Fed-Up Residents Giving Up

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
After nearly a decade in the city of their dreams, Kasandra Larsen and her fiance, Dylan Langlois, climbed into a rented moving truck on Marais Street last Sunday, pointed it toward New Hampshire, and said goodbye.
 Not because of some great betrayal -- they had, after all, come back after losing everything in Hurricane Katrina -- but a series of escalating indignities: the attempted carjacking of a pregnant friend; the announced move to Nashville by Ms. Larsen's employer; the human feces deposited on their roof by, they suspect, the contractors next door; the two burglaries in the space of a week; and, not least, the overnight wait for the police to respond.
A year ago, Ms. Larsen, 36, and Mr. Langlois, 37, were hopeful New Orleanians eager to rebuild and improve the city they adored. But now they have joined hundreds of the city's best and brightest who, as if finally acknowledging a lover's destructive impulses, have made the wrenching decision to leave at a time when the population is supposed to be rebounding. 
 Their reasons include high crime, high rents, soaring insurance premiums and what many call a lack of leadership, competence, money and progress. In other words: yes, it is still bad down here. But more damning is what many of them describe as a dissipating sense of possibility, a dwindling chance at redemption for a great city that, even before the storm, cried out for great improvement.
 ''The window of opportunity is closing,'' Ms. Larsen said, ''before more people like us give up and say it's too little, too late.''
 Mr. Langlois, who has repeatedly called the health and sanitation departments, the police and City Hall, said he despaired of receiving any response. In November, the couple bought their first house, and in December, they bought their first handgun. 
 ''My friends here are just the greatest, hard-working, tax-paying people,'' Mr. Langlois said, ''and I think a lot of us are feeling under siege.'' 
 The couple are unlikely to make any money on the sale of their house.
 For every household that, like this one, has given up, there is another on the verge. Tyrone Wilson, a successful real estate agent and consultant, said he and his wife, Trina, a lawyer, had given post-storm life a fair chance. But, Mr. Wilson said, at the end of the school year they are likely to take their three children back to Dallas, where they took refuge after the storm.
 ''We came back, we tried,'' he said. ''It's really draining, and at a certain point you sit down and you say, 'We don't have to go through this.' ''
 As a city in flux, New Orleans remains statistically murky, but demographers generally agree that the population replenishment after the storm, as measured by things like the amount of mail sent and employment in main economic sectors, has leveled off. While many poorer residents have moved back to the city, the ''brain drain'' of professionals that the city was experiencing before the storm appears to have accelerated. 
 Some say the overall effect is negligible. Greg Rigamer, a demographer who has done work for the city, said that the lack of housing had constrained the recovery, but that many residents remained fully committed to the city.
 ''The pattern in is certainly stronger than the pattern out,'' Mr. Rigamer said.
 But in December, the number of houses on the market peaked at a high not seen since the late 1980s, while the number of sales has trended downward since last June, according to data tracked by the Brookings Institution in Washington. Statistics kept by commercial moving companies show a net loss to New Orleans. Employers say they have raised salaries for skilled workers.
 One oft-cited survey by the University of New Orleans found that a third of residents, especially those with graduate degrees, were thinking of leaving within two years.
 Susan E. Howell, who conducted the survey, cautioned that the sample was small and that the poor were underrepresented. There are indications that low-income New Orleanians -- those who will need the most help from a cash-strapped city --are making their way back, despite a lack of affordable housing, piling into relatives' homes and trailers. 
 U-Haul, the rental company that is more affordable than commercial movers, has had more inbound trucks than outbound, according to the company's records, and the number of public school children and new applications for food stamps in Orleans Parish are rising. In Houston, a task force that helps Hurricane Katrina residents resettle has paid more than $1 million in moving expenses for 350 families returning to New Orleans. 
 ''This is a serious problem for the city, because one of the things we had pre-Katrina was the lack of an educated population,'' Dr. Howell said. ''We had too many people at the low end and not enough at the high end, and Katrina sort of fast-forwarded that trend.'' 
 Because many poorer people have taken longer to return, they have not dealt with as many months of frustration as families with higher income and more mobility, so their staying power has yet to be determined. 
 Reganer Stewart, 30, a hotel maid, said she had been living with her cousin and her cousin's mother and four children since November. In January, Ms. Stewart's 12-year-old daughter, Brandi, joined them, but was put on a waiting list for school and could not enroll until earlier this month. 
 Houston, which Ms. Stewart had not liked when she evacuated there, was growing more attractive as her search for an apartment here grew longer. ''Most likely, we going to leave,'' she said. 
 In battered but proud New Orleans, abandonment is a highly emotional subject, in part because many have made sacrifices to stay and rebuild. To some, leaving now is tantamount to treason. When a report appeared a year ago that Emeril Lagasse, the famed chef, had said the city would ''never come back,'' reservations at his restaurants were canceled and strangers berated him. He insisted he had been misquoted. 
 And in response to an article in The Times-Picayune of New Orleans about a woman who had decided to move on, Poppy Z. Brite, a New Orleans novelist, wrote: ''This isn't an easy place to be right now, and the decision to stay or go is deeply personal. But why must some people use the media to take a parting shot at the city?''
 On another occasion, Ms. Brite said, ''If a place takes you in and you take it into yourself, you don't desert it just because it can kill you. There are some things more valuable than life.''
 Such fierce sentiments help explain why a dozen people who were planning to move or had already done so declined to speak on the record for this article or allow their name to be used. One man, a chef, said he wanted to remain anonymous because he was likely to return someday. A university professor said she did not want to compromise her employer's ability to recruit. 
 ''If I was going to be really politically savvy,'' she said, ''I would say that I was going to do a job search about this time anyway.'' 
 The decision to leave is especially difficult for natives, said Elliott Stonecipher, a demographic analyst in Shreveport, La., even if they are going no farther than the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain.
 ''They just won't talk about it; they do not want to talk about it,'' Mr. Stonecipher said, adding that the reluctance shows just how unusual the city is. ''It's remarkable that they just don't want anybody to know that they gave in.''
 Others have unimpeachable reasons: Paul Gailiunas, a doctor whose wife, Helen Hill, was murdered in their home last month, left immediately for South Carolina.
 As for Ms. Larsen and Mr. Langlois, they have taken in all the fury at those who are leaving, in newspapers, neighborhood forums on the Internet and even in the bars and cafes of their neighborhood, the Ninth Ward. But while many of their own friends had expressed disappointment, none had blamed them. 
 ''Not only do they understand why we're leaving,'' Ms. Larsen said, ''but they say, 'You know what, I'm thinking about getting out of here, too.' It's like they're waiting for that one more bad thing to happen.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: COMING -- Byron Lewis, center, and Michelle Quinn moved into a rental house in New Orleans last week after living with relatives for months.
GOING -- Kasandra Larsen and Dylan Langlois on their last day in New Orleans. ''I think a lot of us are feeling under siege,'' Mr. Langlois said. (Photographs by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 Dylan Langlois, center, and Kasandra Larsen, said goodbye to a friend as they prepared to move out of New Orleans. (Photo by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); TRENDS (87%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HURRICANES (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); WEATHER (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); BURGLARY (70%); CHILDREN (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CARJACKING (56%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (52%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends; Population; Floods; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Shaila Dewan; Kasandra Larsen; Dylan Langlois; Tyrone Wilson; Trina Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



334 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2070 words

HEADLINE: In Fraud Case, 7 Years in Jail For Contempt

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
On Jan. 14, 2000, Martin A. Armstrong, a globe-trotting investment manager, was told to produce $15 million in gold and antiquities, as well as documents, in response to a civil suit by the government accusing him of securities fraud involving hundreds of millions of dollars.
 When he said that he did not have the items and could not produce them, a federal judge ordered him jailed for contempt of court.
Seven years later, Mr. Armstrong sits in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan.
 Imprisoned two years before Enron and WorldCom brought corporate crime to center stage, Mr. Armstrong, 57, is the white-collar defendant whom time forgot. Over the years, the losses of his former clients have been repaid by a bank involved in his trades. 
 Still, he remains jailed on one of the longest-running charges of contempt. In many cases, a federal law limits to 18 months how long someone can be held under civil contempt while the court tries to coerce compliance with an order. Even in cases of criminal contempt, whose goal is punishment rather than coercion, an individual is entitled to the full protections of due process after six months.
 ''A legal proceeding is supposed to be the quest for truth,'' Mr. Armstrong said in a phone interview last week from the 12-story building, which is used mostly as a temporary holding site for prisoners. ''But this contempt was used to stop me from going to trial, and it's been nothing but bad faith from the government ever since.''
 How Mr. Armstrong has been held for so many years without a trial is a tangled and bizarre tale. Mr. Armstrong, his lawyers say, has been stuck in a surreal situation in which criminal prosecutors have never had to prove their 24-count indictment at trial while the civil case tied him up. Nevertheless, they have gotten their desired result -- a lengthy prison term for Mr. Armstrong. 
 Last August, he pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy in the criminal case. He struck that deal with federal prosecutors after he was moved from the 75-square-foot cell he shared with another prisoner into solitary confinement and had not slept for days, his lawyer said. Over the years, prosecutors have said that they were ready to proceed to trial and that civil contempt had nothing to do with their case. Mr. Armstrong countered that his detainment impeded his efforts to mount a proper defense, blocking his access to essential documents and computers as well as the assets to pay counsel. 
 Because there has been no jury trial in the case, it is impossible to say which side is right: the government, whose indictment in September 1999 contended that Mr. Armstrong misappropriated hundreds of millions in client funds; or Mr. Armstrong, who said that officials at the bank executing his trades generated temporary losses that could have been recovered in the market. (Two of those officials later pleaded guilty to fraud in a related case involving the bank.)Exceeding a Sentence
 But this much is certain: Mr. Armstrong's years in jail for civil contempt will soon exceed the sentence of 6.5 to 8 years that he would have received if he had been convicted of all 24 criminal counts of securities fraud, commodities fraud and wire fraud. ''The case sends a very bad signal,'' said Bernard V. Kleinman, a criminal lawyer in White Plains who represented Mr. Armstrong until 2004 and argued twice for his release before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Lower Manhattan. ''I think it bodes very ill for anybody held in civil contempt. District court judges can look at this case and feel that the likelihood of the circuit reversing them is small and that time is, in and of itself, no factor in determining whether civil contempt has lost its coercive effect and has become punitive.''
 John F. Keenan, the Federal District Court judge overseeing the criminal case, has not yet sentenced Mr. Armstrong. It is unclear whether the judge will give Mr. Armstrong credit for the time he has served. Under federal sentencing guidelines, his lawyers expect a sentence of about five years. 
 A spokeswoman for the United States attorney in Manhattan said that the office did not comment on open cases.
 Judge Richard Owen, the senior district judge who ordered Mr. Armstrong held in contempt, still sits on the bench in the Southern District of New York, where he has been for 34 years. When he ordered Mr. Armstrong taken away by federal marshals, he declared, ''Mr. Armstrong has the keys to the jail cell in his pocket by production and telling people where to go to get it and dig it up and turn it over.'' 
 Over the years, Judge Owen would revisit the contempt order every 18 months, guided by the federal statute. He repeatedly said that Mr. Armstrong was motivated by greed and was awaiting his release from jail to retrieve the $15 million that the government said was missing. According to lawyers who worked on the case in the early days, the financier's headstrong manner irritated Judge Owen almost immediately.
 But Judge Owen was moved off the case in November by a panel in the Second Circuit Court hearing Mr. Armstrong's third appeal on the contempt charge. 
 The three judges unanimously rejected the appeal to free Mr. Armstrong but found that on the seventh anniversary of his confinement, ''his case deserves a fresh look by a different pair of eyes.'' 
 It was the second time in less than a year that the Second Circuit had ordered Judge Owen replaced on a high-profile case. In March, a panel overturned the 2004 conviction of Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker at Credit Suisse, because Judge Owen failed to instruct the jury properly; the panel assigned the case to a new judge in the ''interest of justice.'' Later, the government decided not to retry Mr. Quattrone.
 Judge P. Kevin Castel has taken over the Armstrong civil case. A hearing is scheduled on the contempt matter for March 15. A request to interview Mr. Armstrong in person was denied by corrections officials, and Judge Owen did not return a call seeking comment.A Budding Businessman
 At the peak of his career in the mid-90s, Mr. Armstrong oversaw $3 billion in client assets. He was widely quoted in the financial news media, including The New York Times, on interest rate and currency movements. He began working at a coin and stamp dealership when he was 13 and opened a collectors' store when he was 21. He founded Princeton Economics International, based in Princeton, N.J., in 1981.
 Mr. Armstrong, an intelligent and imperious man who claimed to have made his first million by age 15, seems to have begun having trouble in 1999 when trading losses turned up in accounts that were held for the firm at Republic Bank. The problems appeared as the HSBC Group conducted a financial review before acquiring Republic.
 The government said that Mr. Armstrong had improperly commingled accounts and overstated the value of the account's securities in client statements.
 Mr. Armstrong said that he did not authorize the transactions that produced losses and that he was not involved with commingling of the accounts. He was indicted in September and released on $5 million bond.
 In January 2000, the receiver appointed by the court in the civil case said that Mr. Armstrong had purchased gold coins and other assets with his firm's money. His lawyers argued that the assets might have been purchased before the suspected wrongdoing. 
 When Judge Owen ordered the assets returned, Mr. Armstrong delivered 4 of the 5 computers sought, 8 of the 11 requested boxes of documents and gold coins worth $1.1 million. He said that was all he had. The receiver said assets worth about $15 million were missing. Mr. Armstrong's odyssey in the judicial system began. 
 His assets frozen, Mr. Armstrong has been unable to pay lawyers. He now relies upon David Cooper and Steven Z. Legon, two lawyers from the Criminal Justice Act panel, set up to help indigent defendants, and Thomas V. Sjoblom, a lawyer at Proskauer Rose, who has received nominal compensation. 
 ''On what grounds can you tie up the system of criminal procedure and civil procedure and hold everything in abeyance during contempt?'' Mr. Sjoblom asked. ''What about your speedy trial rights? What about the government's need to move forward in the civil case? You're using the contempt process to wring a settlement or a plea out of the person. That, to me, is abuse of the process.'' 
 Over the years, more than half a dozen government lawyers have cycled through the case. In 2003, Mr. Armstrong changed his legal approach in challenging the contempt charge, saying that he did not have to produce the assets and citing his Fifth Amendment right. 
 The receiver, meanwhile, has recovered the vast majority of money said to have been lost by investors in the case. In January 2002, Republic New York Securities, a brokerage firm that housed Princeton Economics' accounts, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud charges. Republic Bank paid $606 million to victims, all Japanese companies. It was ''full restitution,'' the assistant United States attorney said at the time. 
 Alan M. Cohen, then a lawyer at O'Melveny & Myers and now executive vice president and global head of compliance at Goldman Sachs, is the court-appointed receiver. 
 His former colleague, Tancred V. Schiavoni, a lawyer at O'Melveny, said that all the victims had been satisfied. ''We tried to do the right thing, and we've gotten nothing but grief,'' he said. ''What this guy wants is to be given credit for time served on the contempt and leave with the money.'' 
 O'Melveny & Myers has received at least $3.9 million to cover its fees and disbursement over the years, according to court filings. 
 The discovery process was protracted partly because of the complexity -- hundreds of boxes of materials had to be examined and data transcribed into digital format -- and because Mr. Armstrong was in jail and relying on lawyers working pro bono.
 In January 2006, criminal prosecutors said they were eager to put Mr. Armstrong on trial in October. Then in early August, federal prosecutors appeared at the correctional center to strike a plea deal. The visit, Mr. Sjoblom said, came a week after Mr. Armstrong had been ordered into solitary confinement -- known as ''the hole'' -- for damaging a vent in a common area. 
 Mr. Armstrong pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud for failing to keep his investors informed about losses and for agreeing to make investor funds available to Republic to cover Princeton Economics' unrelated trading losses. 
 ''I think the government just wore Marty out,'' Mr. Sjoblom said. 
 On Dec. 7, Stephen J. Obie, regional counsel for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, visited Mr. Armstrong, with a settlement offer in which he would sign over some $30 million as a penalty. Mr. Armstrong declined. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission and the C.F.T.C. declined to comment on the case.
 The government has said that $21 million is still owed. Even if that must be paid by Mr. Armstrong's firm and not Republic Bank, an estimated $40 million is left in what was once Princeton Economics: $30 million in the United States and $10 million in a British entity. Mr. Armstrong and his lawyers learned of the $10 million three weeks ago. Weekly Visits
 Mr. Armstrong, who is divorced, has two children and an elderly mother who await his release. His daughter, Victoria Armstrong, 30, visits most Wednesdays, spending about one hour with him in a common room with other visitors and prisoners. 
 ''You never stop thinking about where he is and what he goes through,'' Ms. Armstrong said in an interview last week. 
 Her brother, Martin, 31, said he was bewildered at what he sees as the breakdown of due process in his father's case. ''That you can keep someone in contempt for such a long time with so many unanswered questions -- that part of it has been a real eye-opener,'' he said.
 Sonia Sotomayor, a judge on the Second Circuit panel that heard Mr. Armstrong's appeal last year, seemed to echo this point. ''The district court's finding that Armstrong is motivated solely by greed is not enough to justify disregard for due process,'' she wrote. ''Courts must exercise caution in their use of the contempt power and must recognize when it has reached the limits of its utility.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victoria Armstrong visits her father most Wednesdays at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Manhattan, where he has been held for contempt for seven years. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 Martin A. Armstrong, pictured in jail in February 2000, has almost served more jail time for civil contempt than he would have if he had been sentenced to the likely 6.5 to 8 years on conviction of 24 criminal counts of securities fraud, commodities fraud and wire fraud. (Photo by Rick Maiman/Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); JAIL SENTENCING (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BONDS (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRISONS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); MISAPPROPRIATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); DUE PROCESS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); INTERVIEWS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Frauds and Swindling; Contempt Actions; Suits and Litigation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Republic Bank; Keenan, John F (Judge)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: Martin A Armstrong; Richard (Judge) Owen; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



335 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: The Autoworkers' Pain

 BODY:
American autoworkers are suffering through another round of layoffs, factory closings and buyouts. This time DaimlerChrysler has announced that it will cut 13,000 jobs in North America. Ford Motor and General Motors offered buyouts to a total of nearly 200,000 hourly workers in 2006. 
 These losses stoke fears that America's manufacturing base is disappearing, that the country is ''de-industrializing.'' With the loss of three million American factory jobs since the end of 2000 and the trade deficit at an all-time high, it's easy to see China's spectacular growth and assume that American factories are being gutted by foreign competition.
But global competition is not the whole cause for the car manufacturers' problems, just as the answers are not to be found in protectionism.
 Many of the car companies' difficulties stem from some bad decisions by management and some uninspired car designs. Chrysler lost $1.48 billion last year and Ford lost $12.7 billion, the most in more than a century in business, while Toyota reported record profits and sales. 
 The plight of the workers who have lost their jobs is real and has to be addressed, but the U.S. manufacturing sector is far more robust than the struggle of the carmakers suggests. According to the United Nations, the United States accounted for 21.2 percent of world manufacturing in 2000. As China surged ahead in recent years, the American share of world manufacturing barely budged, falling to 21.1 percent by 2005, the most recent year available. American factories produced a record $1.5 trillion in goods that year.
 In part, that's because foreign companies have invested so much in factory capacity in America. In a recent report, a Democratic research organization, the Progressive Policy Institute, cited government figures showing that foreign manufacturers invest billions more in the United States than American manufacturers invest abroad. Toyota provides over 29,000 manufacturing jobs in this country.
 Many of the jobs that have disappeared did not drain off to foreign competition, but to technological change on the shop floor. Robots and computers have allowed far fewer workers to produce more than ever. That kind of high-tech manufacturing is one reason successful American companies like Boeing and Caterpillar can compete with companies in countries where the labor costs are low.
 This is not to ignore the human dimension. It is too easy for free trade advocates to blame the robots and then ignore the pain of the blue-collar workers they have sidelined. The suffering in places like Ohio, Indiana and Michigan is very real, and so is the political backlash that results. The long-term answer will deal with the vexing question of how to train American workers for a new world of jobs. But there are more short-term issues as well, starting with taking care of those Americans, middle aged and older, who suddenly find themselves without jobs right now.
 The burden falls on pro-trade politicians and those who support them, unless they want to see high tariffs and duties, which will ultimately choke global and domestic growth. Just to start, pro-trade politicians have to make sure that a lost factory job does not mean a drastic and lasting decline in living standards, with no access to health insurance and no hope for a college education for that worker's children. As the tide rises, this country cannot allow millions to drown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); RECORD INDUSTRY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); POLITICS (63%) Automobiles; Editorials; Factories and Industrial Plants; Organized Labor; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); United States Economy; Production; Foreign Investment

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%) Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



336 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Council Chief Announces Plans to Help Middle Class

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, positioned herself as a champion of the middle class yesterday, proposing programs aimed at helping more New Yorkers buy homes, improving public middle schools and creating a savings account for city surpluses.
 In a speech that sounded as much like a blueprint for a potential mayoral campaign as an outline of her agenda for the coming months, Ms. Quinn offered policy directives in the major areas that opinion polls suggest voters care most about, including health care, public safety, housing and education.
''Middle-class neighborhoods are quietly but steadily disappearing from the city's landscape,'' she said. ''President John F. Kennedy said a rising tide lifts all boats, but I'm worried that if we don't do something, this rising tide is going to push a lot of boats right out into the Atlantic Ocean.'' 
 One proposal would build on an existing program financed by the federal government that helps cover down payments and closing costs for first-time home buyers whose income does not exceed a certain threshold, for example, $56,720 a year for a family of four.
 That program, administered through the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, covers up to 6 percent of the value of the home or $10,000, whichever is greater, officials said.
 Ms. Quinn's proposal, which would cost the city roughly $2.6 million in its first year, would cover people with incomes above those ceilings, up to a threshold of $92,170 a year for a family of four. Council officials said that they would use the existing program as a guideline, but that they had not yet worked out the details with the city's housing department, where Bloomberg administration officials support the plan in concept.
 Neill Coleman, a housing department spokesman, said that the department looked forward to working with the Council to increase home ownership, ''including through H.P.D.'s highly successful down payment assistance program.''
 Ms. Quinn also announced the formation of a task force to focus on problems in the city's middle schools, which educators and parents say have long failed to meet crucial student needs. The task force, which is to include educators, parents, business leaders and policy analysts, is to devise ways to restructure the system with an eye toward better preparing students for high school and reducing the dropout rate.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg indicated that he was open to suggestions from the task force, saying that the Education Department would work with Ms. Quinn.
 ''All studies show that middle schools are a problem, but so are the high schools and so are the elementary schools,'' he said at a news conference about the city's response to the snow.
 ''We'll look at this idea, and we'll look at all of them.''
 In keeping with her emphasis on government reform, Ms. Quinn proposed that the city be allowed to use budget surpluses to create a savings account to cover future shortfalls, a measure currently prohibited by constraints imposed after the fiscal crisis of the 1970s. Those constraints are set to expire in 2008, but Ms. Quinn said it made sense to seek a change in the law from Albany while the economy is still robust. ''Even squirrels save nuts for the winter,'' she said.
 State Senator Diane J. Savino and Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr. have agreed to sponsor the legislation, she said, but Mr. Bloomberg's chief spokesman, Stu Loeser, suggested that it should be taken up as part of a more comprehensive process.
 ''It's something we could consider in the context of what kind of accounting mechanisms should be created to replace the Financial Control Board requirements that will expire at the end of fiscal year 2008, requirements that have worked very well to ensure balanced and transparent budgets,'' he said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine C. Quinn, City Council speaker, is proposing more aid to help New Yorkers buy homes. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); HOME PRICES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%) Elections; Mayors

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Diane Cardwell; Christine C (Speaker) Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



337 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Upshaw Maintains Royalties Were Distributed Properly

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
Gene Upshaw, the executive director of the National Football League Players Association, has denied allegations in a federal class-action lawsuit that maintained that the licensing arm of the union has improperly represented retired players and could owe them tens of millions of dollars.
 Upshaw said yesterday that the union had correctly paid royalties to all deserving former players. 
The lawsuit was brought Wednesday by the former players Bernie Parrish and Herb Adderley on behalf of the 3,500 retired players whom Players Inc. -- the union's licensing subsidiary -- claims in its literature to represent. It questions why only 358 players received any licensing revenue in 2005 from licensees like apparel and video-game companies.
 Upshaw said that only players whose names and likenesses were actually employed by licensees were entitled to royalties under Players Inc.'s voluntary group licensing arrangement with retired players. (This agreement does not delineate how royalties are distributed; Upshaw said paying players only to the extent they were used was longstanding practice.) 
 Upshaw said that barring human error, all deserving former players had been paid, and that the other 90 percent generated no income due them for 2005.
 ''If you generate revenue, you get it -- it's that simple,'' Upshaw said in a telephone interview. Upshaw, who recently has been criticized by some retired players over what they claim to be low pension and disability benefits, said that the marketplace determined which players received money.
 ''We could have the greatest dog food in the world,'' he said, ''but if the dogs don't like it, we can't sell it. Put that at the top of the story.''
 Upshaw and his outside counsel, Jeffrey Kessler, responded to other accusations made in the suit.
 Adderley, a Hall of Fame defensive back for the Green Bay Packers and Dallas Cowboys, said that he had never been sent royalties for a deal he signed with Players Inc. allowing his name to be included on a line of Reebok apparel. Upshaw said he checked Players Inc. records and learned that Reebok had decided not to use Adderley and, therefore, no money was due him. (Documents filed with the United States Department of Labor indicate that Adderley did receive a check for $12,220 from Players Inc. in 2005, which Upshaw said was for his inclusion in an Upper Deck trading card set.)
 Adderley also asserted that his phone calls and letters to Players Inc. to inquire about any Reebok royalties went unreturned, which the lawyer for the 3,500 retired players claimed was part of a longstanding pattern of keeping information from players. 
 Adderley offered as an illustration a July 2004 letter he wrote to Howard Skall, then the vice president of Players Inc. for player marketing. Reached yesterday, Skall, who resigned from Players Inc. last July and is now a marketing agent for Creative Artists Agency, declined to comment because he no longer works for Players Inc.
 In response to the lawsuit's allegation about poor communication between Players Inc. and players, Upshaw said, ''I don't agree with that because I can tell you that when players or anyone else called me, I called them back.''
 Kessler said that Parrish, a former defensive back, primarily for the Cleveland Browns in the 1960s, and the founder of the players association, had never signed the group licensing agreement and so was not due royalties from Players Inc. licensing deals. But Parrish said Wednesday that video games such as Madden 2007, by EA Sports, in depicting old-time teams such as the 1965 Browns, inherently use the former players' personas, regardless of whether their names are used.
 Kessler said: ''Did you look at that game and find his name? His image? His face? Anything? Of course not. If you look at the 1922 Browns, you are going to see my image there. I looked at that and it looks just like me. Forget about the fact that I didn't play N.F.L. football. I mean, this is an absurd claim. I can understand Mr. Parrish if they used the name 'Parrish' there, or they even used his statistics, but none of that is there.''
 Ronald Katz, the lawyer for the retired players, said yesterday that even if names of such players are not displayed, Players Inc. behaves in the marketplace as if it represents all former players. As an illustration, he cited a form letter in which Upshaw warned retirees that his deals with EA Sports and some others forbid those companies from using former players not under contract with Players Inc. 
 Katz said that created an economic benefit for Players Inc. for which all players should be compensated.
 ''That would be true,'' Upshaw said, ''if we were using 3,500 players' names and we were actually collecting revenues and not paying them. That ain't the case.''
 Players Inc.'s official response to the lawsuit will probably be filed in three to eight weeks, with any subsequent trial beginning in late 2008.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herb Adderley, with Packers Coach Vince Lombardi, says Players Inc. did not respond to his inquiries about payment he thought he was due. (Photo by Leonard McCombe/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); PET FOODS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) Football; Labor; Organized Labor; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (84%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (59%) National Football League Players' Assn

PERSON: Alan Schwarz; Gene Upshaw; Herb Adderley; Bernie Parrish

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



338 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Will Russia Bet on Its People or Its Oil Wells?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
In a high-rise building with a view of Lenin's Tomb, the U.S. aerospace giant Boeing is designing key parts of its new 787 Dreamliner, using hundreds of Russian aerospace engineers. Yes, President Putin may be talking cold-war tough, but down the street from the Kremlin, America's crown jewel industrial company is using Russia's crown jewel brainpower to design its next crown jewel jetliner. 
 Boeing's Moscow Design Center, which employs 1,400 Russian engineers (earning less than their U.S. counterparts) on various projects, symbolizes Russia's unique potential: Russia is that rare country that not only has a treasure trove of natural resources -- oil, gas and mines -- but also has a treasure trove of human talent: engineers, mathematicians and other valuable minds. 
Most nations with highly developed human talent -- like Singapore or Taiwan -- have few natural resources, and those that are rich in natural resources -- Venezuela or Sudan -- tend not to develop their people's talents. The exceptions, like Norway, which is rich in both human and natural resources, usually built their democratic institutions before they got rich on oil, so the money was well spent. 
 The meta-question with Russia today is this: Will it become more like Norway, a democracy enriched by oil, or more like Venezuela, a democracy subverted by oil? Is the Boeing center Russia's future or its exception? 
 You see signs of both trends. On the positive side, Russia has been smarter than most petro-states. It has set up a rainy day fund and tucked away $100 billion from its oil and gas windfall. Direct foreign investment in Russia hit $30 billion last year, according to The Economist, and not all of it goes to the oil and gas sector anymore.
 And then there's Boeing. Its impressive Moscow center operates two shifts of engineers: 7 a.m. until 3 p.m., and 3 p.m. until 11 p.m. -- which is during the workday in the United States. A Russian Boeing engineer might be designing part of the 787's nose during his day, and then initials and stores his work in the computer. A U.S. Boeing engineer, working on an identical computer, then picks it up during her day and engineers it some more. With regular teleconferences, it's as if they are in one virtual 24-hour office.
 ''There is no paper at all,'' said Sergei Korolev, the deputy head of Boeing Moscow. ''We do the presentations electronically and have online sessions with Wichita and Seattle, and everyone looks at the same part and talks about it. Our center is the reason people are not emigrating.''
 But Russia has a unique legacy in aerospace from Soviet days, so the educational centers and talent were in place for Boeing to tap. What Russia still glaringly lacks is an ecosystem of secure property rights, venture capitalists and homegrown innovators, and universities and business schools churning out idea-entrepreneurs. ''Made in Russia'' will never be a global brand as long as research spending by Russian companies remains among the lowest in the world.
 The Moscow Times recently reported that only two Russian colleges -- Moscow State and St. Petersburg State -- are listed among the world's top 500 universities. When you walk down the streets in Bangalore, India's high-tech capital, it feels as if there's a computer school or English-language school on every street. You walk in Moscow, and it feels as if there is a new shoe store or beauty salon on every street. 
 A former top aide to President Putin remarked to me that Russia had a huge interest in building a postindustrial knowledge economy, not an energy-intensive industrial one, so it can export most of its oil and gas, not consume them at home. But that would take a big investment in education, which is not being done.
 Noting that Russia today spends far less of its G.D.P. on higher education than Europe or America, Sergei Guriyev, rector of Russia's New Economic School, wrote in The Moscow Times, ''Russians simply are not prepared to pay the taxes that would be necessary to finance science and education at Soviet-era levels, and no incentives have been created to attract more private funding.''
 So here's my prediction: You tell me the price of oil, and I'll tell you what kind of Russia you'll have. If the price stays at $60 a barrel, it's going to be more like Venezuela, because its leaders will have plenty of money to indulge their worst instincts, with too few checks and balances. If the price falls to $30, it will be more like Norway. If the price falls to $15 a barrel, it could become more like America -- with just enough money to provide a social safety net for its older generation, but with too little money to avoid developing the leaders and institutions to nurture the brainpower of its younger generation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Freedom and Human Rights

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) Russia; Moscow (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



339 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Fed Says Production Fell 0.5% in January

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Production at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.5 percent in January after a 0.5 percent December increase, the Federal Reserve said yesterday. 
 The report showed companies delayed orders and makers of autos and building materials reduced stockpiles. 
The figures are consistent with a prediction yesterday by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, that excess inventories, especially at auto dealers, may limit production early this year. 
 A separate report from the Philadelphia Fed showed manufacturing in the area stalled this month, and orders fell.
 ''A lot of producers are biting the bullet and clearing out inventories now rather than waiting for a surge in demand,'' said Brian Bethune, an economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass.
 The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said its index of manufacturing in the region fell to 0.6 in February from 8.3 a month earlier. A number greater than zero signals expansion. The bank's index of new orders declined to minus 0.5, the third decrease in the last four months.
 The report also showed that an index measuring the average workweek fell to the lowest level since December 2001, prompting factories to reduce payrolls.
 Capacity utilization, which measures the proportion of plants in use, declined to 81.2 percent in January from 81.8 in December. The decrease suggests a diminishing threat of production bottlenecks that can lead to faster inflation. 
 The slowdown in manufacturing, along with cheaper energy, is helping keep a lid on inflation. The Labor Department said yesterday that prices of goods imported to the United States fell in January by the most in three months. The 1.2 percent decrease reflected lower crude oil and natural gas costs and came after a 1.1 percent gain.
 The labor market may also be starting to strain from the weakness in manufacturing and housing, a Labor Department report showed. First-time jobless claims rose 44,000 last week, the most since September 2005. Some of the increase was a reflection of winter storms that swept through parts of the nation.
 ''Some of the rise was due to the weather, but the bulk of it suggests that the labor market is getting softer,'' said Kevin Logan, senior market economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in New York. 
 The drop in industrial production was the biggest since a 1.6 percent decline in September 2005, after Hurricane Katrina.
 Manufacturing, which accounts for about four-fifths of industrial production, fell 0.7 percent last month after rising 0.8 percent in December. Excluding autos, factory production fell 0.4 percent, after increasing 0.8 percent in December.
 The Fed's industrial production report showed that utility output rose 2.3 percent after declining 2.7 percent in December.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average since September, 2006.(Sources by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Capacity Utilization''Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.Graph shows the Operating Rates: Jan.: 81.5%Dec.: 82.1Nov.: 81.7(Source by Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); HURRICANES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (83%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



340 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 925 words

 BODY:
SEVEN YEARS AND COUNTING -- For seven years, Martin A. Armstrong, a onetime globe-trotting investment manager, has been in the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Lower Manhattan for contempt of court. Imprisoned two years before Enron and WorldCom brought corporate crime to center stage, Mr. Armstrong, 57, is the white-collar defendant whom time forgot. [Page A1.]TIVO WATCHERS WATCH ADS -- People with digital video recorders like TiVo never watch commercials, right? 
 Wrong. According to new data, people who own digital video reporters still watch about two-thirds of the ads. [A1.] FIRM ORDERED TO PAY $160 MILLION -- A federal judge ordered Bear Stearns to pay nearly $160 million to investors in a hedge fund for failing to properly monitor the activities of the fund before it collapsed. [C1.] AMERICAN TO LEAD CREDIT SUISSE -- Brady Dougan, a Midwesterner, has been named chief executive of Credit Suisse group, a major global bank and one that has never had an American -- or a non-German speaker, for that matter -- as its sole chief executive. [C1.] SCALING BACK EXPECTATIONS -- Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, told Wall Street analysts that some of them are being too optimistic about sales of Windows Vista, the latest version of the Windows operating system. Mr. Ballmer, above, said forecasts for sales in the fiscal year beginning in July were too high, noting that the analysts' spreadsheet models called for slower growth in the personal computer industry. [C4.] MICROSOFT'S INSIGNIFICANT LOSS -- A Russian judge convicted a provincial school headmaster of using pirated Microsoft software in school computers, but declined to impose any penalty, saying that Microsoft's loss was insignificant compared with its overall earnings. [C6.] HOME PRICES FELL IN LATE 2006 -- Prices for single-family homes fell in more than half of the nation's 149 biggest metropolitan areas in the last three months of 2006, according to data from a trade group for real estate agents. [C1.] A BILL TO REGULATE TOBACCO -- A bipartisan group of congressmen reintroduced legislation that would allow the federal government to regulate the tobacco industry by cracking down on marketing aimed at young people. [C1.] BERNANKE SEES STRENGTH -- The Federal Reserve would raise interest rates if inflation moved higher, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke said, noting that the economy might be stronger than it appears. [C2.] FEWER NEW CUSTOMERS -- Vonage Holdings, the Internet phone company, lost less money last quarter, but it gained fewer new customers, indicating that competition may be intensifying. The company said that it added 166,000 new subscriber lines in the fourth quarter, down from about 204,600 in the third quarter -- the first sign of slowing subscriber growth since the company went public last spring. [C4.] ABC'S OSCAR SHOW IS BOOKED -- ABC has already sold all the commercials it plans to run during the Feb. 25 broadcast of the 79th annual Academy Awards ceremony. The sold-out sign went up a bit earlier than last year, despite slightly higher prices. Advertising, Stuart Elliott. [C3.] JOB CHANGES AT NBC UNIVERSAL -- Jeff Zucker, newly installed as the chief executive of NBC Universal, announced a series of executive promotions involving three longtime NBC executives [C6.]STEADY RATES IN JAPAN -- Japan's surprisingly strong growth in the last quarter of 2006 was just a one-time surge by an otherwise sluggish economy and is not likely to push the central bank to raise interest rates next week, economists in Tokyo said. [C6.] NEW INQUIRY INTO DRILLING FEES -- Top Democrats on the Senate Energy Committee ordered a new inquiry into the Interior Department's program to collect billions of dollars worth of oil and gas from companies that drill on public territory. [C3.] NORTHWEST SETS NET WORTH -- Northwest Airlines said that it expected to be worth about $7 billion when it emerged from bankruptcy later this year and that it would pay unsecured creditors roughly three-quarters of what they were owed. [C7.]WARNING ON PEANUT BUTTER -- ConAgra Foods told consumers to discard certain jars of Peter Pan and Great Value peanut butter after a salmonella outbreak sickened almost 300 people. [A19.] GIFTS TO GOVERNOR QUESTIONED -- Federal authorities are investigating gifts and payments that Gov. Jim Gibbons of Nevada received when he was a member of Congress from an executive of a software company that received millions in dollars of federal contracts, government officials said. [A20.] DELAY IN PORT DEAL -- The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has caused a political uproar by seeking to delay a deal by A.I.G. Global Investment Group, an arm of the American insurance giant, to buy rights to run port terminals from DP World, the port operator owned by the Maktoum royal family of Dubai. [B2.] ONLINEBusiness BriefingArticles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.The Molson Coors Brewing Company, one of the world's biggest beer companies, said that its fourth-quarter profit soared on increased sales volume, a lower tax rate and cost savings. (AP)Biogen Idec reported that its fourth-quarter profit nearly doubled on growing sales of treatments for cancer and multiple sclerosis. But the company's profit and revenue both fell short of Wall Street expectations, and shares fell sharply. (AP)Lawyers for Conrad M. Black, former head of the Hollinger media empire, asked a judge to bar prosecutors from showing jurors a tape on which a shareholder calls the him ''a thief.'' (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Vonage shares for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (87%); PRISONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); JUDGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); CITIES (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); HOME PRICES (67%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); YOUTH MARKET (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (85%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (85%); CS (NYSE) (85%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); VG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (72%); BEN BERNANKE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



341 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE: V.C. NATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Meets 'American Idol' With Prizes to Inspire Inventors

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
FACING down stiff competition to win fame and big prize money? Forget singing for Simon Cowell and Paula Abdul. Try sequencing DNA for a panel of technology investors.
 Yes, something like an ''American Idol'' for the technorati may be coming to Silicon Valley.
Venture capital firms are considering contests that offer competing engineers and entrepreneurs multimillion-dollar prize purses if they come up with innovative technologies in various industries. 
 The concept is getting an introduction on March 3 at a fund-raiser at Google. The event is intended to raise a chunk of $50 million to operate the X Prize Foundation, a nonprofit group that already has awarded $10 million to designers of a private spacecraft.
 The foundation plans to use the money to develop prizes in fields like medicine, poverty reduction and fuel-efficient cars. But the foundation's next stage of prize-giving will also include partnerships with venture capitalists who, the group argues, can use prizes to spur entrepreneurs to innovate and, in turn, to create an efficient research and development machine.
 ''Prizes can help create markets,'' said Tom Vander Ark, president of the X Prize Foundation. ''It's an interesting twist on venture. Instead of betting on a company, they can bet on a sector.'' 
 The X Prize foundation, whose board of trustees includes Larry Page, a co-founder of Google, and Elon Musk, a PayPal founder, has been asking venture capitalists to donate money for prizes and to consider more formal partnerships. Such partnerships, Mr. Vander Ark said, could involve giving money in exchange for an option to buy equity stake in the prizewinning companies.
 Mr. Vander Ark declines to disclose what deals -- if any -- have been struck, but he says an announcement is imminent. Already, some big-name firms, including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, are endorsing the idea, at least in principal.
 But the concept also has engendered some skepticism. Prizes may be of limited value to venture capitalists, who ultimately are less interested in groundbreaking science than they are in concrete and market-ready technologies, according to some technology investors and academics.
 ''There's no market merit to any of this,'' said Paul S. Kedrosky, executive director of the William J. von Liebig Center, which studies venture capital trends. He argues that the prizes might be good for generating press, or buttressing the egos of donors and winners, but not particularly valuable at leading to profit-capable companies.
 ''It's a naive assumption that good science is good business,'' he said.
 Prize-inspired entrepreneurialism, however, is a concept that goes back hundreds of years. And there have been a number of recent examples. 
 Al Gore, the former vice president, and Richard Branson, the British billionaire, announced last week a $25 million prize for development of technology to reduce greenhouse gases. In October, Netflix, the online movie rental store, began offering a $1 million dollar prize to spur development of a system that can better predict what films consumers might like based on their previous viewing habits.
 For their part, venture capitalists have used prizes on a limited, albeit modestly growing, basis as a way to prompt engineers and scientists to articulate their ideas in marketable terms. Several venture firms, including Polaris Venture Partners, have sponsored an annual $100,000 business plan competition at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 In 1998, Akamai Technology, whose software is used to route Internet traffic efficiently, didn't win the M.I.T. competition. (It finished in the top 10.) But it did get the attention of both Polaris and Battery Ventures, which invested in the company and later helped take it public.
 More recently, Advanced Technology Ventures, Atlas Ventures and General Catalyst have financed a $100,000 prize in the Boston area to be awarded to the best business plan related to alternative energy. The idea is to spur innovation and give the venture firms a chance to see prospective technologies and business plans ahead of other venture investors, said Wes Raffel, a partner with Advanced Technology Partners.
 ''It gets a lot of people competing,'' Mr. Raffel said. He added, though, that it doesn't obligate the entrepreneurs to sign bigger investment deals. ''They don't have to take our money.''
 Yet Mr. Raffel, echoing concerns of other venture capitalists, has some concerns about whether more ambitious and costlier prizes make sense. His wariness is that if prizes rise into the millions, venture capitalists are going to want some guarantee that they will have an option to invest in the winner. And if a lot of venture capitalists wind up donating prize money to the same pot, that could create conflicts over who has the right to sign up the winner.
 But William Woodward, chief executive of Anthem Venture Partners, based in Santa Monica, Calif., counters that the value of donating to a prize could extend beyond the guarantee of an ownership stake. Mr. Woodward, who has been approached by the X Prize Foundation about participating in its new program but hasn't yet made up his mind, said the concept could help spur development in industries that have been sluggish because of political reasons.
 ''Like stem cells, which is an area I'm passionate about,'' Mr. Woodward said. In general, he said, prizes, ''can keep the science moving forward.''
 Mr. Vander Ark said his aspirations are not just about science, but viable businesses. For instance, the foundation already has plans to award a $25 million prize for a car that gets 100 miles a gallon, but the vehicle must be in production to get the award.
 The awards, he said, have an opportunity to generate press attention and buzz, and in turn to motivate a greater number of engineers and entrepreneurs than individual venture capitalists or their firms might be able to do. For the superefficient automobile, the foundation even envisions a made-for-TV road race and finale.
 Somewhat like ''American Idol,'' Mr. Vander Ark conceded, but with at least one major difference.
 ''Singing, who knows? We haven't yet lined up any musical component.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Vander Ark, the president of the X Prize Foundation. (Photo by Bart Bartholomew) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TRENDS (89%); DNA (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); SPACECRAFT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%) Medicine and Health; Contests and Prizes; Venture Capital; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Economic Conditions and Trends; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency ; Medicine and Health; Weather; Global Warming

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (64%); GOOGLE INC (58%); PAYPAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc; X Prize (Group)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (64%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%)

PERSON: SIMON COWELL (73%); LARRY PAGE (55%); AL GORE (50%) Tom Vander Ark; Al Gore; Richard Branson; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



342 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: PRESSING ALLIES, PRESIDENT WARNS OF AFGHAN BATTLE

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
President Bush warned on Thursday that he expected ''fierce fighting'' to flare in Afghanistan this spring, and he pressed NATO allies to provide a bigger and more aggressive force to guard against a resurgence by the Taliban and Al Qaeda that could threaten the fragile Afghan state.
 With American and NATO commanders pressing for more troops and experts predicting that further gains by the Taliban could put the Afghan government of President Hamid Karzai in danger, Mr. Bush used his presidential platform to lay out what he said was substantial progress in Afghanistan since 2001, but also a continuing threat.
The remarks, to the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization here, amounted to an unusually high-profile acknowledgment from Mr. Bush of the precarious state of the effort to stabilize Afghanistan, a country the administration long held up as a foreign policy success story. 
 The speech renewed criticism from Democrats that had the United States not been tied down in Iraq, the situation in Afghanistan would not have turned dire. At the same time, some Republican lawmakers said Mr. Bush's new strategy would not do enough to tamp down the Afghan drug trade. Outside experts criticized the president for painting too rosy a picture.
 The speech was also a striking effort by the White House to focus attention back on Afghanistan at a time when Congress is debating resolutions criticizing Mr. Bush's strategy in Iraq and the administration is making a case that Iranian forces are supplying Shiite militants in Iraq with roadside bombs.
 ''Across Afghanistan last year, the number of roadside bomb attacks almost doubled, direct fire attacks on international forces almost tripled, and suicide bombings grew nearly fivefold,'' Mr. Bush said. ''These escalating attacks were part of a Taliban offensive that made 2006 the most violent year in Afghanistan since the liberation of the country.''
 Mr. Bush said the question now was whether to ''just kind of let this young democracy wither and fade away'' or to step up the fight.
 ''The snow is going to melt in the Hindu Kush mountains, and when it does we can expect fierce fighting to continue,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The Taliban and Al Qaeda are preparing to launch new attacks. Our strategy is not to be on the defense, but to go on the offense.''
 Mr. Bush noted that he has already extended the tour of a 3,200-soldier American brigade and called on Congress to provide $11.8 billion more to pay for operations in Afghanistan over the next two years.
 The president said his administration had completed a review of its Afghan strategy, and would work to increase the size of the Afghan army from 32,000 troops to 70,000 by the end of next year, and to bring in additional allied troops to support the fledgling army. 
 ''When there is a need, when the commanders on the ground say to our respective countries, 'We need additional help,' our NATO countries must provide it in order to be successful in the mission,'' Mr. Bush said.
 He promised to build new roads that would help spur economic development, to battle an increase in the opium trade and to try to forge better ties between Afghanistan and its neighbor, Pakistan.
 At the same time, Mr. Bush pledged to work with President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan to root out Taliban and Qaeda fighters who hide in that country's remote mountainous regions -- a situation he described as ''wilder than the Wild West.'' And, echoing his lament that 2006 was a difficult and disappointing year for Iraq, the president said the same had been true in Afghanistan.
 Some critics of the administration's handling of Afghanistan said Mr. Bush was still understating the difficulties there.
 ''We underfinanced, undermanned and under-resourced the war in Afghanistan for the last four years, and now we face a serious threat that the Taliban will succeed in destabilizing the country enough in 2007 to make the Karzai government collapse at some point,'' said Bruce Riedel, a scholar at the Saban Center for Middle East Studies at the Brookings Institution, a liberal-leaning research organization in Washington. He called the speech ''a long overdue recognition that we need to do a lot more.''
 Both Mr. Riedel and Rick Barton, an expert in Afghanistan reconstruction at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said Mr. Bush's new strategy did not do enough to promote security and economic development. Mr. Barton, who published a report in 2005 measuring progress in Afghanistan in that year, is about to publish another, and said the situation has turned measurably worse since his first study.
 ''We've gotten into a situation where things have really turned negative and the average Afghan has lost confidence in both the safety of his country and the ability of the leadership to turn things around,'' Mr. Barton said. He said the president ''is definitely acknowledging that, but his reality therapy is not as thorough or as complete as I think it needs to be.''
 On Capitol Hill, the senior Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, released a statement criticizing the speech. Ms. Ros-Lehtinen and several other Republicans have been pressing the Bush administration to do more to crack down on Afghanistan's opium trade; she said the new strategy lacked ''practical initiatives to target major drug kingpins and warlords whose trade in opium finances the Taliban's campaign.''
 As Iraq has dominated the American psyche, some lawmakers, most recently the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, have called Afghanistan ''the forgotten war.'' The Democratic National Committee, responding to Mr. Bush's speech on Thursday, issued a statement saying, ''The Bush administration took its eye off the ball in Afghanistan.''
 But Mr. Bush pointed to what he called ''remarkable progress'' since the American invasion in 2001: A democratically elected government with a parliament that includes 91 women; more than five million children in school as opposed to 900,000 under the Taliban; and the return of more than 4.6 million refugees.
 The president's speech came after his new defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, attended his first conference of NATO defense ministers last week in Seville, Spain. At the meeting, Mr. Gates pressed his allied counterparts to fulfill their commitments of troops in time for a spring offensive against the Taliban.
 Currently, NATO has about 35,000 troops in Afghanistan, about 13,000 of them American. The United States has 9,000 more troops in Afghanistan operating outside the NATO mission, handling tasks like specialized counterterrorism work and helping to train Afghan forces. Gen. David J. Richards of Britain, the outgoing NATO commander in Afghanistan, said last month that NATO was 4,000 to 5,000 troops short.
 But NATO commanders have been constrained by so-called caveats -- restrictions imposed by member nations on how their troops may be used and where they may be sent. The Bush administration has been pressing the allies to lift those restrictions, and the president renewed that call on Thursday, saying NATO commanders ''must have the flexibility they need to defeat the enemy wherever the enemy may make a stand.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussed the situation in Afghanistan yesterday at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); BUDGETS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); MOUNTAINS (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-QAEDA (84%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Taliban; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HAMAD KARZAI (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Bruce Riedel; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf; Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Hamid (Pres) Karzai

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (79%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Pakistan; Afghanistan; United States; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



343 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Freedom From Fear

BYLINE: By Guy Nordenson. 
Guy Nordenson, a structural engineer in New York and a professor of architecture at Princeton, is the co-author of ''World Trade Center Emergency: Damage Assessment of Buildings.''

 BODY:
THERE is still time to take the fear out of the Freedom Tower. Despite reports that Gov. Eliot Spitzer has now decided to back the project, the fact is that with a little time it is still possible to rethink the tower and make it both secure and welcoming without setting back the overall ground zero construction schedule. 
 The current design, which was unveiled in 2006, was created under pressure from former Gov. George Pataki, who tied his presidential ambitions to its swift completion. In this plan, the architects and engineers, for several reasons, took a very conservative approach. The result, a 20-story fortified wall around the base of a 1,776-foot tower, hardly evokes freedom -- rather, it embodies fear and anxiety. 
I write from experience. Some four years ago I began working with David Childs, the principal architect, on the first version of the Freedom Tower. This was a 2,000-foot-tall structure of torquing glass and steel; the bottom half contained the office building while the top half was a broadcast tower composed of an open framework of cables and trusses. (Also in 2002 The New York Times Magazine published a proposal of mine for a 2,000-foot-tall broadcast tower on the site that we have been working on intermittently ever since.)The structure would have given the tower the widest TV broadcast capacity possible, at the maximum height allowed by the Federal Aviation Administration. The office floors ended at about 70 stories, matching the tallest downtown office building, with as much overall floor area as the current design and with every floor having direct access to the ground level by elevator. The open, cable-stayed upper 1,000 feet of the structure would have had wind turbines that would have met more than 20 percent of the building's energy needs, a fitting symbol for a city whose seal includes a windmill.
 While the basic design won over almost everyone involved with the project, including many of the governor's advisers, Mr. Pataki asked the architect to amend it in late 2003. Specifically, he wanted Mr. Childs to reduce the upper structure from 2,000 to 1,500 feet, and to add a slender 276-foot antenna to make it a symbolic 1,776 feet tall. The alterations, unfortunately, made the design impossible to build, and eventually the entire concept was abandoned. 
 So Mr. Childs presented the revised Freedom Tower, which meets Mr. Pataki's interests but bears no resemblance to his initial design. It is in every way inferior, and those flaws -- in terms of aesthetics, economics, security and ethics -- are all rooted in the way in which it was conceived.
 First, the aesthetics. The critics have not been kind to the Freedom Tower. The solid geometry is self-centered -- this newspaper's critic wrote that it ''evokes a gigantic glass paperweight with a toothpick stuck on top'' -- without any sense of orientation or any recognition of its place in the skyline. This is a shame, especially considering what the same architects showed they were capable of next door, in the elegant new 7 World Trade Center building. 
 But it is understandable: not only were the architects rushed by Mr. Pataki, but after the ordeal of the first design's development and rejection, it seems natural that Mr. Childs would reach for a simple geometry the second time around. The result, unfortunately, would be second rate in Chicago, Dubai or Shanghai, and should not be the symbol of New York City, let alone freedom. 
 Second, the finances of the new building are a disaster. The Freedom Tower will most likely cost around $3 billion to build, for 2.6 million square feet of office space. The cost of $1,150 a square foot is nearly twice what it cost to build the new Museum of Modern Art, for which I was also the engineer. Of the cost, about $1 billion will be paid with insurance money collected by the ground zero leaseholder, Larry Silverstein. 
 Assuming that the owners of the Freedom Tower, the Port Authority, are able to sign government or other tenants on at market rate rents of $50 to $60 per square foot, the income on the entire property, after expenses and taxes and including the rent on the TV antennas, will be at most $100 million dollars a year, which is less than 4 percent return on the investment. The Port Authority would do better buying back its bonds, which now offer a return of greater than 5 percent. What is more, the property is probably uninsurable, so the Port Authority will be spending billions for a below-market return and a substantial risk. 
 Third, the security concerns that have blocked so many facets of the plan remain unresolved. Last January, I sat in a meeting in the New York City police commissioner's conference room and listened to a debate on various security plans and blast-resistant designs for the different projects at ground zero. In the end, James Kallstrom, Governor Pataki's senior counterterrorism adviser and the security coordinator for ground zero, closed the discussion by saying, ''Structural engineers will have to certify that the design meets the threat basis.'' 
 I understood this to mean that as long as the engineers signed off on the design, everything would be considered fine. This is worrisome, especially given that that the computer software that is being used to simulate the blast effects is proprietary and classified by the federal government, and that the structural engineers being asked to certify the building do not have clearance or direct access to the program, only the data given them by the software. 
 In contrast, the approach taken by most private building owners in the city -- which generally includes physical tests, repeated independent computer simulations and help from the Defense Department's technical support working group -- provides real assurances of security. The Freedom Tower deserves the same sound engineering approach as any commercial project.
 The final problem with the tower is less obvious: the politically charged situation under which it was conceived has led to ethical problems in terms of tenancy. Mr. Silverstein never wanted to build the Freedom Tower, and few could blame him. The site is awkward, too far from public transportation and Wall Street, and the tower is too big for the downtown real estate market to absorb in time to realize a good profit. Last year, he exchanged this problem for the three towers he is now developing on the site, leaving the Port Authority saddled with the Freedom Tower. 
 The authority itself, however, will not occupy the Freedom Tower but will rent space from Mr. Silverstein in Tower Four, at the opposite corner of the site. So far, state agencies, under pressure from Mr. Pataki, have signed on for about 400,000 square feet (roughly one-sixth of the tower's floor space) Federal agencies including the Customs Service and the Secret Service will most likely sign on for 600,000 square feet. 
 In other words, government employees are being conscripted to occupy a tower that no private company or authority -- including the building's owner -- will take. At a time when there is considerable anguish over the 20,000 additional troops that President Bush wants to send to Baghdad, it seems that the ethics of forcing thousands of state and federal employees to work in fear in the Freedom Tower is fundamentally flawed.
 The good news is that it is not too late to change things. The current construction of the foundation and subterranean levels does not lock us into a final design above ground. The work should continue up to the ground level and stop (this should take about a year) so that the architects and engineers are given another chance to design a Freedom Tower that, like other buildings rising downtown, is financially viable and a secure and welcoming work environment worthy of its place in the skyline.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); CONSERVATISM (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); WIND POWER PLANTS (62%); TERRORISM (59%); PORT AUTHORITIES (59%); CIVIL AVIATION (51%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%) Guy Nordenson; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



344 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Sees A Rate Rise If Inflation Rears Its Head

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve would raise interest rates if inflation moved higher, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Thursday, noting that the economy might be stronger than it appears. 
 Testifying to Congress for a second day on the central bank's semiannual economic report, Mr. Bernanke reminded financial markets that the central bank was maintaining an inflation vigil even though economic growth appeared to be slowing.
Financial markets rallied on Wednesday on the view, inspired by Mr. Bernanke's first day of testimony, that inflation was moderating and the economy expanding.
 ''We've seen some very strong consumer spending numbers and we've seen some strong income growth, which suggests that the economy may be stronger than we think,'' the Fed chief told the House Financial Services Committee.
 ''In order for this expansion to continue in a sustainable way, inflation needs to be controlled,'' he told the panel chairman, Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, who asked why the Fed was more worried about inflation than growth.
 ''If inflation becomes higher for some reason, then the Federal Reserve would have to respond to that by raising interest rates,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 A batch of weak economic data overshadowed Mr. Bernanke's comments, however, and futures markets reflected an even greater expectation of a rate cut in the third quarter than they had on Wednesday.
 Mr. Bernanke's opening statement was identical to the one he delivered on Wednesday to the Senate Banking Committee and he repeated that core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, remains ''somewhat elevated.''
 Some House lawmakers, including Mr. Frank, expressed frustration that the generally positive economic outlook that Mr. Bernanke described was not fully shared by ordinary Americans who feel their incomes pinched.
 In opening remarks, Mr. Frank said the Bush administration's view that globalization offered only benefits, and that businesses should feel no constraint about moving to wherever costs were lowest, was causing workers in the United States widespread unease.
 Mr. Bernanke said jobs were begging for American workers who had the appropriate training and skills. He repeated observations made in a speech a week earlier in which he urged the spread of economic opportunity by making education more readily available.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); FUTURES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARNEY FRANK (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



345 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: A Bigger NATO, But at What Price?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Putin Pushes Back,'' by Thomas L. Friedman (column, Feb. 14), about the repercussions of NATO expansion:
I don't think it was a mistake to incorporate into NATO some of the Eastern European countries that had been freed from Communism. But I question why Russia had to be excluded. 
 Why shouldn't NATO become an alliance of countries committed to common values like political and economic freedom and due process of law? If NATO were defined in that way, Russia could be eligible for membership if it committed itself to reforms that institutionalized these goals. Then Russia would not have to feel alienated by NATO, but could become a full-fledged member.James BernsteinNew York, Feb. 14, 2007To the Editor: 
 Despite what Thomas L. Friedman says, America did not force ''NATO on a liberal democrat like Mr. Yeltsin.'' NATO was expanded primarily because the West was responding to the pleas of peoples who became free after the collapse of the Soviet empire. 
 Boris N. Yeltsin might look like a liberal democrat in comparison with Vladimir V. Putin. But few would not! Mr. Yeltsin bombed a democratically elected Russian parliament, started a war against Chechnya and manipulated elections to bring to power his hand-picked president -- a previously unknown K.G.B. man named Vladimir V. Putin.
 There have been no liberal democrats in power in all of Russian and Soviet history -- only autocrats of different types interspersed with occasional reformers. 
 Mr. Friedman is correct that Russia today is not a direct threat to American security. The Czech Navy will not make NATO stronger, but the people of Eastern Europe will sleep more soundly with NATO's promise of security from invasion or the threat of invasion tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. This makes them grateful to America. And that is in the long-term interests of the United States.Pavel Litvinov Irvington, N.Y., Feb. 14, 2007The writer was a dissident leader and political prisoner in the Soviet Union. To the Editor:
 Instead of seeing the end of the cold war as an opportunity to incorporate our recent enemies into a new world order, we used the power imbalance that it created to humiliate the defeated. 
 As we have learned since 9/11, humiliated peoples can strike out blindly at those they consider their humiliators. This, along with our experiences in Iraq and verbal exchanges with Iran, offers a bigger lesson. We should spend more time considering how decisions and their probable fallout are likely to be viewed in the long term by the peoples affected.
 No matter how benign we think our intentions are, when our actions demand that others accept our superiority, we create pockets of unyielding hatred like those left behind by the colonialists of an earlier era.Raymond D. GastilDeep River, Conn., Feb. 14, 2007To the Editor:
 I do not think NATO expansion was an error. Remember that the planning for it coincided with talk of a ''peace dividend'' and a consensus that NATO's primary mission would be out-of-area peace operations in hot spots like the Balkans, not continental defense against Russia.
 It was also plausible then to assume that admitting former Warsaw Pact members would help prevent a future resurgence of Soviet-style military influence and pave the way toward market economies. Those economies would, in turn, bring lasting stability in Europe and open new venues for American products. 
 Washington must see through President Vladimir V. Putin's rhetoric and continue, through dialogue, to shape a positive outcome.Jeffrey Stefani Alexandria, Va., Feb. 14, 2007The writer is a policy analyst at the Defense Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); WRITERS (73%); DUE PROCESS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%) James Bernstein; Pavel Litvinov; Raymond D Gastil; Jeffrey Stefani; Thomas L Friedman; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) Russia; Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2007



346 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: Home Construction Dropped in January

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Home builders, grappling with a slump in demand, slowed construction on new homes in January to the lowest level in almost a decade. 
 The Commerce Department reported Friday that its seasonally adjusted annual rate of new construction fell 14.3 percent from December and 37.8 percent from a year earlier.
The number of building permits issued last month also dropped, signaling that the months ahead could be equally bleak in the residential construction business. 
 The new construction data contradicted the notion among some builders and economists that the housing market has recently shown signs of bottoming out. 
 ''You can't blame this one entirely on the weather,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist of Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm. ''We continue to maintain the worst is not over for housing.''
 The Northeast was the only region in the country where building did not decline. Builders there boosted construction by 8.9 percent compared with December. 
 The rest of the country, however, did not fare so well. The West saw the sharpest drop, with construction declining 28.5 percent from December. In the Midwest, construction fell 15.2 percent; in the South it dropped 11.8 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



347 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1948 words

HEADLINE: Furor on Rush to Require Cervical Cancer Vaccine

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL and ANDREW POLLACK; Ralph Blumenthal contributed reporting from Houston.

 BODY:
Racing to embrace a new vaccine, at least 20 states are considering mandatory inoculation of young girls against the sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer. 
 But a roaring backlash has some health experts worried that the proponents, including the vaccine's maker, Merck, have pushed too far too fast, potentially undermining eventual prospects for the broadest possible immunization.
 Groups wary of drug industry motives find themselves on the same side of the anti-vaccination debate with unexpected political allies: religious and cultural conservatives who oppose mandatory use of the vaccine because they say it would encourage sexual activity by young girls. 
 Even some who support use of the vaccine question the rush and the vaccine's high cost -- about $400 for the three-shot course. ''The decision to make this mandatory this early has created a significant controversy over things that have nothing to do with the vaccine,'' said Dr. Joseph A. Bocchini, chairman of the committee on infectious diseases of the American Academy of Pediatrics. 
 Like most other public health experts, Dr. Bocchini advocates the vaccine's use. But many say the rush toward mandatory inoculation could prove counterproductive. 
 Most of the proposals call for vaccinating girls before they enter the 6th grade, a group that would include about two million girls nationwide annually if all states imposed the requirement. 
 In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry recently issued an order that girls be vaccinated. But some legislators are trying to overturn the order, with some opponents complaining because the governor's former chief of staff is now a lobbyist for Merck. State lawmakers are scheduled to hold a hearing Monday on a bill to rescind that order.
 And in Illinois, a bill introduced by a legislator who had the virus the vaccine is intended to prevent prompted a conservative group's blog to speculate that she had been promiscuous. 
 ''I'm offended by their ignorance, but if I have to take a hit to educate people, I'm willing to do it,'' said the bill's sponsor, Debbie Halvorson, the Democratic majority leader in the Illinois Senate.
 Ms. Halvorson is also a director of Women in Government, a national association of state legislators that has embraced the fight against cervical cancer and has received funding from Merck. The group has posted model mandatory vaccination legislation on its Web site, www.womeningovernment.org.The rush for mandatory inoculation -- most of the state proposals have been introduced since the beginning of the year -- is unusual. It was only last June that federal regulators approved the vaccine, called Gardasil.
 Typically new vaccines, like the one for chicken pox in the mid-1990's, have been rolled out gradually in this country, with public health officials endorsing mandatory use only after several years of experience have shown the new products to be generally safe and effective. 
 ''Generally the mandates have been enacted over years,'' said Dr. Janet R. Gilsdorf, the director of pediatric infectious diseases at the University of Michigan. 
 An advisory panel of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended last summer that girls and women ages 11 to 26 be vaccinated with Gardasil. But members of the committee say that such a recommendation is not equivalent to calling for mandatory vaccination. 
 Even before the vaccine's approval, though, Merck had begun laying the political foundation in state legislatures to promote widespread vaccination of young girls. 
 Gardasil and another vaccine under development by the drug maker GlaxoSmithKline are aimed at the human papilloma virus, or H.P.V., which is known to be the cause of cervical cancer. Analysts see a potential $5 billion a year market for H.P.V. vaccines, and some say that Merck is intent on inoculating as many girls as possible before the introduction of Glaxo's product, which could become available this year.
 Merck's president for vaccines, Margaret McGlynn, acknowledged a sense of urgency. But she said it was motivated by the need to eradicate the disease. 
 ''Each and every day that a female delays getting the vaccine there is a chance she is exposed to human papilloma virus,'' Ms. McGlynn said. 
 The company, which said it had shipped two million doses of Gardasil by the end of 2006, has begun advertising in many parts of the country. Merck declined to disclose its lobbying and advertising budget for the vaccine. 
 Gardasil protects against two strains of H.P.V. that cause about 70 percent of the cases of cervical cancer as well as two other strains that cause genital warts. In approving the vaccine last June, the Food and Drug Administration said that in the United States each year there were an average of 9,710 new cases of cervical cancer and 3,700 deaths attributed to it. 
 The disease's toll is higher in other parts of the world than it is in the United States, where most women get routine Pap smears to detect early precancerous changes in the cervix. Worldwide, cervical cancer is the second-most-common cancer in women. It causes more than 470,000 new cases and 233,000 deaths each year, according to the F.D.A.
 Merck's main partner in the vaccination campaign, Women in Government, also receives funding from Glaxo, as well as Digene, a company that makes a test to detect the presence of H.P.V. Over the last two years, Women in Government has been holding a series of luncheons and conferences nationwide to discuss its fight against cervical cancer, including the use of vaccines. 
 Opponents of mandatory inoculation include anti-vaccine activists, who argue that the vaccine has not been tested in enough young girls and who have listed various side effects reported among users, which have included dizziness, nausea and fever. Others include conservative Christian groups who oppose mandatory H.P.V. vaccination on moral grounds, and those who are generally distrustful of the pharmaceutical industry.
 ''It's a very messy thing to be promoting right now,'' said Fran Eaton, editor of the conservative blog in Illinois where one writer attacked Senator Halvorson's morality. ''If you're a conservative, you're going to be worried about parental rights. If you're a liberal, you're worried that the pharmaceutical companies are taking over the United States.'' 
 One activist who frequently criticizes pharmaceutical companies, Vera Hassner Sharav, and a co-author suggested that the H.P.V. vaccine stood for a campaign to ''Help Pay for Vioxx'' losses. Vioxx, the painkiller taken off the market in 2004 because it was linked to cardiovascular problems, was also made by Merck.
 Lawmakers in Indiana have been targets of e-mail campaigns from out of state, according to Connie Lawson, a Republican Senator who sponsored the mandatory vaccine legislation pending in that state and who is the chairman of Women in Government.
 ''Accusations were being made,'' Senator Lawson said. ''I don't even think I should repeat some of the things that were said.'' 
 The controversy worries public health experts like Dr. Bocchini, who is also the chief of pediatric infectious diseases at the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center. He is concerned that the outcry might make the public mistrustful of a vaccine that would otherwise be to its benefit. 
 ''If the public had enough experience with the vaccine and had enough knowledge about H.P.V., the question about whether to get the vaccine or give it to their daughters wouldn't be an issue,'' Dr. Bocchini said.
 Some of the bills, despite calling for compulsory vaccination, have ''opt out'' provisions, letting parents citing religious or moral grounds to choose not to have their daughters inoculated. Those provisions also have raised concerns among public health experts. 
 ''A lot of us are concerned that if you allow people to opt out of one vaccine, they will opt out of other vaccines that are due at the same time,'' said Dr. Mark Myers, executive director of the National Network for Immunization Information (www.immunizationinfo.org). 
 Several lawmakers have said that their motivation in supporting mandatory H.P.V. vaccines was to ensure widespread inoculation and to erase economic disparities in cervical cancer, which is most common among low-income women who are the least likely to have Pap smear screening. 
 The chairman of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt University, Dr. Willam Schaffner, said that when mandates were in place, racial and economic disparities in who was vaccinated virtually disappeared.
 The first effort to mandate H.P.V. vaccinations for school girls began last fall in Michigan, where a bill, introduced by a leader in Women in Government, was defeated amid opposition from an anti-vaccine group. 
 But the main legislative thrust began this year in what appeared to be a coordinated effort. The National Conference of State Legislatures, which tracks such legislation, reports that at least 31 states are deliberating bills that would require vaccination, funding for vaccinations or the distribution of information about H.P.V. A synopsis of the bills is listed at the national conference's Web site (www.ncsl.org/programs/health/HPVvaccine.htm).
 Groups on both sides of the debate appear to have been energized by the executive order of Gov. Rick Perry on Feb. 2 mandating vaccination. Opponents have pounced on Gov. Perry's ties to Merck and Women in Government. His former chief of staff is a lobbyist for Merck in the state and his wife, a nurse who has worked to promote health, once spoke at a Women in Government conference on cervical cancer. 
 ''I looked at all of this and said, someone is playing politics,'' said Cathie Adams, president of the Texas Eagle Forum, a branch of Phyllis Schlafly's national Eagle Forum, a conservative group that calls itself ''pro-family.'' 
 Citing various reasons, the Texas Medical Association is not currently supporting mandatory vaccination. 
 Dr. Carol Baker, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, said that two other vaccines for adolescents that were approved in recent years -- against meningitis and whooping cough -- have not yet been mandated in Texas. ''To mandate just one, in my view, is a little odd,'' she said. 
 The American Academy of Pediatrics is not advocating mandatory Gardasil vaccination, either. One source of opposition from pediatricians is cost. Buying enough H.P.V. vaccine for 100 girls would require a practice to lay out nearly $40,000 in advance. Many doctors say that the insurance reimbursement for giving the vaccine is not adequate to compensate them for administering it. 
 Dr. Bocchini of the American Academy of Pediatrics also said too much of the Gardasil focus was being placed on 11- and 12-year-olds, when legislatures should be focusing on trying to obtain funding to vaccinate girls and women in the 13-to-26 age group, many of whom are not covered by the federal vaccine programs aimed at children. 
 ''A number of people are just not going to be able to get this vaccine,'' he said.
 Many states are considering legislation that would require girls to be vaccinated against the virus that causes cervical cancer. Other states are considering legislation to finance vaccinations or to pay for educational material about the vaccinations.Map of the United States highlighting states with the following legislation:Require vaccinations but some would allow parents to opt outPay for vaccinations or have insurance pay for themProvide education about vaccinationsMultiple proposals(Source by National Conference of State Legislators)(pg. C9) 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the possible mandatory vaccination of young girls against a sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer misidentified the executive director of the National Network for Immunization Information. He is Dr. Martin G. Myers, not Dr. Mark Myers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicole Giacopelli, 17, left, receives a shot of Gardasil, a new cervical cancer vaccine, from Dr. Jill Stoller in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)(pg. C9)Chart/Map: ''To Finance, Vaccinate or Educate''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (95%); CANCER (93%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (91%); CERVICAL CANCER (91%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CHICKEN POX (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%); APPROVALS (63%); RELIGION (55%); WEB SITES (50%) Cancer; Cervix; Vaccination and Immunization; States (US); Women; Venereal Diseases; Human Papilloma Virus (Hpv); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Cancer; Gardasil (Drug) 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (55%) Merck & Co Inc

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (55%); DEBBIE HALVORSON (55%) Stephanie Saul; Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



348 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: A Loyalty That Extended To the Uniform, and Beyond

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MANHASSET, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In August 2003, Jimmy Regan was coaching at a lacrosse camp, on his way to law school after giving up his lucrative first job on Wall Street. Then he surprised people by enlisting in the Army.
 His friends assumed he would apply for officer training school, but Regan told his friends, ''You know, with my economics degree from Duke, they won't let me be in the Rangers.''
He went exactly where he wanted to go, first through the rigorous training of a Ranger, then to the dangers of Afghanistan -- twice -- and Iraq -- twice. Yesterday, Jimmy Regan, who was killed Feb. 9 at 26 by a bomb in Iraq, was honored by family, friends and teammates as the ultimate team man. 
 He had all the perks of a star athlete from the North Shore suburbs who did not have to go anywhere near the military. But something called him into the Ranger uniform, after wearing lacrosse and football uniforms at Chaminade High and a lacrosse uniform at Duke University. 
 Oh, yes, and for some obscure reason he wore the hated light-blue ballcap of North Carolina, backward, for four years on the Duke campus. That was Jimmy, something of a character. People laughed in church yesterday when they remembered him and his outsized grin, captured forever in his Ranger uniform on the funeral program.It was a terrible day, of parents and sisters and a fiancee burying a loved one, of bagpipers and limousines and a church full of mourners, and, in the cold on busy Northern Boulevard, people left school and malls and medical centers to wave flags.
 The overflow crowd at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church mourned Jimmy Regan, but they also seemed to understand that, by his own standards, he was no victim. And the sturdy young people in uniforms who accompanied him on this awful day gave off the message that, just like Jimmy Regan, they had chosen their uniform. 
 Regan's choice is still something of a mystery, even to the people who knew him best, like Jack Moran, his lacrosse coach at Chaminade.
 ''He had the ability to dominate a game by himself,'' said Moran, who attended the funeral, ''but he led by example and leadership. He's one of these unique kids who make everybody better. If they doubled up on him early, he would get the ball to the right guy.''
 Asked why Regan decided to enlist, Moran said: ''This is just speculation on my part, but knowing him since he was 13, there were a lot of people from Manhasset who died on 9/11. I believe that was part of it.''
 Manhasset sends a lot of commuters on the train toward Wall Street every morning. In the horrible days after 9/11, there were funerals all over this town. Regan was at Duke then, in his senior year, but he could hear the bells tolling. 
 Nobody saw the military man in Jimmy Regan, but he did bring people together, said Kevin Cassese, who was a year behind Regan and is now an assistant at Duke. 
 ''I stayed with him on my official visit,'' Cassese said in a telephone interview Wednesday. ''I think they thought we'd get along because we were both midfielders from Long Island, and they were right. Jimmy was the ultimate Duke man. He made the mood lighter whenever he walked into a room.''
 In his last season, Regan scored four goals to help Duke win the Atlantic Coast Conference championship. A year later, his former teammates heard he enlisted. 
 ''It was sort of a surprise to all of us,'' said Cassese, who flew up from Durham to attend the wake Thursday. ''He sent us an e-mail, saying: 'This is what I have to do. Hopefully everybody will support me.' We're still thinking about what pushes a man or a woman to this higher calling.'' Regan was mourned on a day the House of Representatives voted, 246-182, to denounce the government's plan to send more American troops to Iraq. His father, James P. Regan, has been quoted as saying that criticism of the Iraq war undermines the troops over there, but yesterday at the funeral, he discussed his ''initial misgivings'' about his son's choice.
 ''The ultimate sacrifice flashed through our minds,'' he said with his wife, Mary R. Regan, sitting in the front row. ''His mother has had part of her heart ripped out.'' James Regan said he would have to live without ''my best friend,'' but he praised ''Jimmy, the team player'' and called his son ''a warrior.''
 Regan's sisters, Maribeth, Colleen and Michaela, and his fiancee, Mary McHugh, listened to these tributes. Dan Chemotti described the look of sheer hatred between him and Jimmy before the opening face-off in a high school game. Later, they were teammates at Duke, where Regan turned their apartment into what Chemotti could only liken to a primitive Ranger obstacle course -- broken glass and all. 
 Rob Hotarek, Regan's best friend since grade school, and Richard Crawford, a friend in the Rangers, spoke of a young man who could be a cut-up and a late riser, but who also contained a faith and a purpose. 
 ''He wanted to serve his country rather than himself,'' said the Rev. James C. Williams, the president of Chaminade, who taught Regan in high school. 
 The crowd in Manhasset made it clear that Jimmy Regan was part of a large and loyal team.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Regan, who played lacrosse at Duke, where he graduated with a degree in economics. As an Army Ranger he was sent to Afghanistan twice and Iraq twice.
 Two Army Rangers at the funeral of Sgt. James J. Regan yesterday in Manhasset, N.Y. Regan was killed Feb. 9 in Iraq at 26. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LACROSSE (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); ATHLETES (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); TRAINS (60%) Lacrosse; Sports of the Times (Times Column); United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%) Duke University

PERSON: George Vecsey; James J Regan

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



349 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Late Rally Pushes Dow to a Record

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average posted its best week since Nov. 19, rising slightly yesterday to another record close, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq declined as investors were reluctant to make commitments before the holiday weekend.
 A drop in the shares of Microsoft kept stocks in negative territory for most of the day, as the company cast doubts about sales prospects of its Vista operating system. 
Concerns ignited by a decline in housing starts and a dip in a gauge of consumer sentiment added to the negative tone.
 But the indexes pared losses late in the session, pushing the Dow up to a record close for a third consecutive day.
 Reports that General Motors was in preliminary talks about buying Chrysler underscored optimism about merger activity.
 ''As of noon, volume just dried up -- everybody started their weekend early,'' said Frank Lesh, a futures analyst and broker at FuturePath Trading in Chicago.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 2.56 points, or 0.02 percent, to end at 12,767.57, a record. The S.& P. declined 1.27 points, or 0.09 percent, to finish at 1,455.54. The Nasdaq composite inched down 0.79 point, or 0.03 percent, to close at 2,496.31.
 For the week, the Dow rose 1.5 percent, the S.& P. gained 1.2 percent and the Nasdaq advanced 1.5 percent.
 The dollar was steady after falling earlier in the week in response to the weakening economic data. 
 Crude oil was higher, rising after the United States government warned of growing unrest in Nigeria, a member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Crude oil for delivery in March rose $1.40, to $59.39 a barrel.
 This week's rally in stocks was set in motion by comments Wednesday from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who said that inflation was poised to ease and that the economy was growing moderately.
 After Thursday's closing bell, though, the mood became more cautious, and Microsoft's stock fell after Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive, said that analysts' revenue forecasts for Vista were ''overly aggressive.'' 
 Mr. Lesh said of the Microsoft developments: ''I guess you could say it was bearish news, but it didn't really seem to have much effect on the market by the end of the day. I guess people are taking a wait-and-see on Microsoft and Vista to see how they do.''
 Microsoft shares slid 72 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $28.74, their biggest drop in nine months. Microsoft was the most heavily traded Nasdaq stock.
 The G.M. talks were first reported by the trade journal Automotive News. G.M. and Chrysler's parent, DaimlerChrysler, declined to comment on the report.
 Shares of General Motors were down 10 cents, or 0.3 percent, at $36.34, while DaimlerChrysler shares were up $3.08, or 4.4 percent, at $73.33 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The pace of home construction fell in January, with the figures for housing starts weaker than economists had expected, showing the largest decline since October.
 The slide in housing starts gave investors a reason to sell shares of home builders, including KB Home, which fell 53 cents, or 1 percent, to $54.22.
 In addition, consumer sentiment slipped unexpectedly in February as concerns over unemployment and inflation sapped confidence, according to the Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers.
 Bond prices were higher, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury bill up 5/32, at 99 16/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, at 4.69 percent, down from 4.71 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (96%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); SALES & SELLING (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Nasdaq Composite Index

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



350 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Fell Sharply in January

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The predicted bottoming-out of the housing market appears, for now, to still be just a prediction.
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that construction of new homes in January slowed to the lowest rate in almost a decade. And in a sign that the months ahead could hold further gloom for the residential real estate market, the number of building permits issued last month also declined.
The seasonally adjusted annual rate of home starts dropped 38 percent compared with a year earlier, to 1.4 million in January, meaning that builders would start construction on only 1.4 million new homes this year if that rate continued. That compares with a rate of 2.3 million in January 2006. The number of building permits authorized fell to a rate of 1.6 million, from 2.2 million a year earlier -- a 29 percent decline. 
 Economists said that some of the decline could be attributed to the weather -- January was the first month this winter that was cold enough in many regions of the country to disrupt construction. But economists seemed to agree that most of the drop-off in residential construction indicated that builders were pulling back from a market that was oversaturated with unsold homes and short on buyers.
 ''I don't think this is a weather story,'' said David Seiders, chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders. ''I think this is real stuff. The question is, Where is the real bottom for starts and permits?''
 The Northeast was the only region where construction did not decline. Builders there increased construction by 9 percent, compared with December.
 The sharpest drop was in the West, where construction declined 29 percent. In the Midwest, construction fell 15 percent; in the South, it dropped 12 percent.
 The sharp decline in January followed two month-to-month increases in new-home construction. Those numbers, combined with some encouraging mortgage application data and other signs of tentative improvement in housing, led some economists to conclude that the worst of the slump had passed. But the new statistics contradicted that notion.
 ''People started getting a little too excited,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist of Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm. ''Over the longer term, the outlook for housing is fairly positive. But it's going to take us some time to unwind the excess buildup.''
 To help shrink the growing backlog of unsold homes, builders are increasingly paying closing costs and offering other incentives like free vacations. In January, 52 percent of builders surveyed by the home builders' association said they were paying closing costs. When the housing market was at its peak in 2003, as few as 10 percent of builders said they were doing so.
 Because new homes account for only about 15 percent of all homes sold in the United States each year, some economists have pointed to signs of improvement in the market for previously owned homes as evidence that the housing downturn is stabilizing. The sales rate for existing homes rose in October and November, and was down less than 1 percent in December. 
 This week, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress that ''some tentative signs of stabilization have recently appeared in the housing market.'' He also noted the rather limited impact the slump had had on the rest of the economy. 
 But all that could change. And as Mr. Bernanke noted, the extent of the housing correction ''may prove greater than we anticipate.''
 A survey yesterday showing slipping consumer confidence was a reminder of how fickle economic forces can be. The Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment slipped in February to 93.3, from 96.9 in January. A measure of how Americans think the economy will perform in the future also slipped from January.
 On the bright side, the Labor Department said yesterday that its index of wholesale inflation declined in January as energy prices fell. When energy and food prices were excluded, however, the rate of inflation rose.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Housing Construction''New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.JanuaryStarts: 1.408Permits: 1.568Graph tracks new private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace, since 2005.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING STARTS (93%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%) Housing; Housing Starts; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



351 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Peaks and Declines, but It Remains Huge

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AFTER years of deterioration, the United States trade deficit appears to have finally peaked and started to decline.
 To be sure, the government reported this week that for all of 2006 the trade deficit in goods rose 7 percent, to a record $818 billion. But as a percentage of gross domestic product, the figure was virtually unchanged at 6.2 percent. 
A sign of improvement is that exports of United States goods were up 14.5 percent in 2006, while imports rose 10.9 percent. It was the first time since 1997 that exports rose more rapidly than imports, and it was the biggest rise in exports since 1988.
 The charts with this article look at monthly numbers, or more precisely at three-month moving averages of seasonally adjusted monthly figures, a way to help smooth out some of the volatility. In dollars, the monthly average deficit peaked at $71.4 billion in August, and by December was down 10 percent, to $64.2 billion.
 Looked at relative to the economy, the peak -- or bottom, depending on your perspective -- came even earlier, in November 2005. Then the trade deficit in goods amounted to 6.6 percent of G.D.P. The latest figure is 5.7 percent.
 The figures reflect only trade in goods. The United States still runs a surplus in trade in services, so the overall trade deficit is smaller.
 The charts also show the part of the deficit in goods stemming from imports of petroleum. Oil now makes up about 30 percent of the deficit, down from a peak last summer of 36 percent. About half the improvement in the deficit has come from oil, while the rest has come from other products.
 The oil figure largely reflects price fluctuations, of course. But the other part of the deficit appears to have fallen at least in part because the dollar has slumped against many currencies, and that may finally be improving United States competitiveness. 
 Looking at the annual figures, the largest deficit increase came, to no one's surprise, in trade with China, where the bilateral deficit rose 15 percent, to $232.5 billion. Increased deficits with the countries in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Mexico, also a large oil exporter, accounted for the rest of the increase in the United States deficit. 
 The deficits with Canada and Britain declined, while those with other parts of Europe were close to level. The deficits with Latin America and South Korea declined, while the United States surplus with Australia was up.
 Even with improvements, however, the deficit remains very large by historical standards. In the 1980s, when a soaring United States trade deficit led to international action to depress the value of the dollar, the annual deficit in goods peaked in 1987 at 3.2 percent of United States G.D.P. That is just over half the 6.2 percent figure reached in 2005 and 2006. 
 Another way of looking at the severity of the deficit is to look at the ratio of imports to exports. Using a three-month moving average, the worst period in the 1980s came in early 1986, when the United States was able to export just 57 cents worth of goods for every dollar of goods it imported.
 In this cycle, the figure fell to a low of 52 cents in late 2005, and is now 58 cents, only a bit better than the worst figure of the '80s.

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Trend Starts to Reverse''Graph tracks the monthly U.S. trade deficit in goods (nonpetroleum goods and petroleum goods) from 1990 to 2006.Graph tracks trade deficit as a percentage of G.D.P. (nonpetroleum goods and petroleum goods) from 1990 to 2006.Figures based on three-month running averages of trade deficit in goods, seasonally adjusted.Annual U.S. trade deficit in goodsCHINA'06 CHANGE FROM '05: +15%OPEC'06 CHANGE FROM '05: +13%EURO AREA'06 CHANGE FROM '05: 0JAPAN'06 CHANGE FROM '05: +7%CANADA'06 CHANGE FROM '05: -7%MEXICO'06 CHANGE FROM '05: +29%OTHER EUROPE *'06 CHANGE FROM '05: -2%SOUTH KOREA'06 CHANGE FROM '05: -16%INDIA'06 CHANGE FROM '05: +9%BRITAIN'06 CHANGE FROM '05: -35%The 2006 U.S. trade deficit in goods was $818 billion, 7 percent higher than the 2005 total. Rising deficits with oil exporters and China accounted for all of the increase, while the deficit was flat or lower with Canada and Europe.* Other Europe figure is for entire continent other than Britain and the 13 countries using the euro as their currency.(Source by Census Bureau and Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); US DOLLAR (73%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); MEXICO (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



352 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: ITALIANS INDICT C.I.A. OPERATIVES IN '03 ABDUCTION

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER; Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: ROME, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
An Italian judge indicted 26 Americans on Friday, most of them C.I.A. officers, in what will become the first trial of the American program of secretly whisking away terror suspects. Italy's former top spy was also indicted.
 Despite the indictment, issued by a judge in Milan, it is unlikely that any of the Americans, one of whom is an Air Force colonel, will ever face trial here. The trial is expected to take place in June. 
 The indictments came in connection with the case of a radical Egyptian cleric, Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr. The cleric, known as Abu Omar, disappeared near his mosque in Milan on Feb. 17, 2003, and said he was kidnapped. 
 He was freed this week from jail in Egypt, where he says he was taken and tortured.
 The indictment marked a turning point in Europe, where anger is high at the American program of ''extraordinary renditions,'' an aggressive policy of seizing suspected terrorists on foreign soil and interrogating them at secret locations in a third country.
 Though the Italian indictment is the first in which such a case was ordered to trial, this week the Swiss government approved an investigation into the flight that was said to have carried Mr. Nasr from Italy to Germany, through Swiss airspace. The flight reportedly then went from an American air base in Germany to Egypt.
 Late last month, a German court issued an arrest warrant for 13 people suspected of involvement in the kidnapping in Macedonia of a German citizen of Lebanese descent. There are also investigations into extraordinary renditions in Portugal and Spain. 
 In the meantime this week, a European Union parliamentary committee issued a detailed report into what it said were ''at least'' 1,245 secret C.I.A. flights in Europe, some of them involving extraordinary renditions. The report, which awaits approval by Parliament, is particularly sensitive because it suggested forcefully that a number of governments knew of the flights. 
 ''We believe there has been either active collusion by several E.U. governments or turning a blind eye,'' one member of the European Parliament, Baroness Sarah Ludford of Britain, said this week. 
 All the operatives, who included the top two C.I.A. officials in Italy at the time, have left the country. A spokesman for the C.I.A. declined to comment on the indictment, and an American government official said that no extradition requests had been received from Italy for those charged. If Italy did seek extradition, there seems little chance the Bush administration would agree.
 Here in Italy, the possible complicity of the government of Silvio Berlusconi, the prime minister at the time, is one of the most difficult issues in the case. Among the Italians indicted Friday were Nicolo Pollari, who until earlier this year was Italy's chief of military intelligence, and his former deputy, Marco Mancini. 
 Mr. Pollari has denied responsibility, saying he cannot defend himself because he would need to use evidence classified as state secrets. The suggestion is that officials outranking Mr. Pollari gave approval for the kidnapping. ''We are very disappointed by the decision of the judge, being convinced that the lack of proof and the acquisition of documents covered by secrets of state demonstrates Pollari's innocence,'' Mr. Pollari's lawyer, Tittal Madia, said, according to the newspaper Corriere della Sera. 
 The case has snarled Italian politics with several complications. This week, the government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi asked the Constitutional Court to review whether the prosecutor in Mr. Nasr's case, Armando Spataro, overstepped his bounds by wiretapping the phones of Italian agents. 
 On Friday, Mr. Spataro said in a statement that he ''astonished'' by the government's move, saying he had followed all the laws in gathering evidence. 
 Meanwhile, a member of Mr. Prodi's government, Antonio Di Pietro, minister of infrastructure and a former corruption prosecutor, criticized the government for not having requested the extradition of the officers. 
 Mr. Prodi's government has not said whether it will make such requests. But the issue looms as one more source of conflict between Italy and the United States.
 While both American and Italian officials say the relationship remains solid, it has been tested in recent months on several fronts. A big demonstration is being planned on Saturday in Vicenza, in northern Italy, where the Americans have asked to enlarge an existing air base, and Italian officials have recently criticized American actions in Iraq, Lebanon and Somalia. 
 Earlier this month, an Italian court ordered an American soldier to stand trial for the death in Iraq of Nicola Calipari, an Italian secret service agent killed in 2005 while securing the release of a kidnapped Italian journalist. The soldier is unlikely to be extradited to Italy.Deportation Challenge Rebuffed
 JOHANNESBURG, Feb. 16 (Reuters) -- A South African court on Friday rejected a challenge to the deportation of a Pakistani citizen whose family says was subject to ''extraordinary rendition'' as part of the American effort to curb terrorism.
 Khalid Rashid was arrested as an illegal alien in October 2005 and subsequently disappeared. South Africa says he was deported ''under special circumstances'' and flown to Pakistan, where he was handed over to Pakistani officials.
 Mr. Rashid's lawyers sought to challenge the deportation, but the Pretoria High Court on Friday rejected the move along with lawyers' requests to introduce new information in the case, the South African Press Association said.
 Mr. Rashid's family and lawyers say he has not been heard from since his removal to Pakistan, which they believe was part of the C.I.A.'s rendition program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicolo Pollari, who until earlier this year was Italy's chief of military intelligence, was indicted yesterday along with his former deputy. (Photo by Giulio Napolitano/Agence France Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); TERRORISM (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); APPROVALS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); JUDGES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%) Terrorism; Kidnapping; Intelligence Services; Terrorism; Torture

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) Ian Fisher; Nicolo (Gen) Pollari; Marco Mancini; Hassan Mustafa Osama (Abu Omar) Nasr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ITALY (98%); EUROPE (94%); EGYPT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%) Italy; Egypt; Milan (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



353 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, Fighting to Stay

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''New Orleans's New Setback: Fed-Up Residents Giving Up'' (front page, Feb. 16), about the continuing exodus of New Orleans's ''best and brightest,'' is saddening, but not unexpected.
Despite the efforts to restore and rebuild, the wounds both physical and financial are deep and painful. 
 This historic cultural center of American soul will not die, but the healing process will at first diminish its old glory and artful glee. This is what is happening now, but in my mind it will bottom out and a new, but probably smaller Big Easy will arise. 
 I say give it time, stand by its side and keep the faith in a unique people who right now know it's ''blues'' time, but who will soon fully revive both the spirit of this great city and the heart of America.Waddell RobeyCamp Hill, Pa., Feb. 16, 2007To the Editor:
 ''New Orleans's New Setback: Fed-Up Residents Giving Up'' misses what is a glaring truth to those living in New Orleans, and missing from reporting around the country. New Orleans has become a city in two parts, not segregated by money or skin color or politics, but by location. 
 The survived areas inside the City of New Orleans are a glaring counterpoint to the devastation caused by flooding. Even with the loss of our neighbors and friends, those remaining in these survived areas are successfully struggling to flourish, with neighborhoods that are highly diverse ethnically, economically and politically.
 And what the article also misses is the glaring inequity that those in New Orleans and in Southwest Louisiana, struck by Rita, see as obvious: the disproportionate treatment and financing across the Gulf Coast (Mississippi versus Louisiana), the unequal treatment with respect to state matching-fund requirements (9/11 versus Katrina), the wasteful spending (cleanup contracts), the unfair crediting of flood insurance payments as part of the woefully inadequate federal allocation of funds (New Orleans has among the highest percentage of premium-paying participants in the flood program).
 These inequities, and the missing geographic counterpoint, do a disservice to those who want to stay in flooded areas, and a disservice to those who still live in unflooded areas.John RuskinNew Orleans, Feb. 16, 2007To the Editor:
 Some parts of New Orleans, such as Magazine Street, and many historic areas are thriving, or at least coming back to life. There are innovative new charter schools. Political reform has cut a tangled maze of levee districts for each parish down to two -- east and west bank of the Mississippi -- and our overabundance of tax assessors is shrinking to one.
 It hurts deeply that many people have not yet returned to the neighborhoods where vernacular culture like traditional jazz, Mardi Gras Indians, Creole cookery and the building trades (plastering, bricklaying and fine carpentry) have been nurtured. 
 But your suggestion that the ''best and brightest'' are leaving, based as much on anecdotal evidence as hard numbers, overlooks the significant wave of new people who have chosen to come be part of the city's rebuilding. 
 They range from college kids and other volunteers who strip sheetrock or clean up neighborhoods, fall in love with New Orleans and stay (for at least the time being), to high-end artists and professionals. 
 The city is now flooding with urban planners, environmental engineers, educators, media producers, managers, home builders, writers, architects, entrepreneurs and others. 
 Unlike earlier times when uptown white society as well as downtown black and Afro-Creole communities were largely closed to newcomers, outsiders are increasingly accepted as needed for their skills and knowledge, and welcomed for what they bring to the economy and as a counterpoint to those who have made the painful decision to leave, or have not as yet returned.Nick Spitzer New Orleans, Feb. 16, 2007The writer is a professor of folklore and cultural conservation at the University of New Orleans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); FLOOD INSURANCE (69%); FLOODS & FLOODING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MATCHING GIFTS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); TAX ASSESSORS (50%) Hurricanes; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: Waddell Robey; John Ruskin; Nick Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



354 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Is America Just Too Big for Its Own Good?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''California Split'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 10), Gar Alperovitz raises a serious question that our increasingly tense and polarized national politics may soon be forced to confront. Is the United States just too big? 
Americans who want to see meaningful political action on any number of problems are frustrated by a Congress that is totally captured by elites that govern from the center, or, worse yet, ideologues who use slim majorities to force their agendas on a public they cannot persuade through political dialogue. 
 Why should millions of people in the Northeast or California be prevented from moving in the direction of other developed nations on issues like global warming and international human rights because voters in Texas and Tennessee disagree? 
 If the structure of the political community is undermining the democratic values it was designed to promote, then perhaps it is time for the structure to change.Vincent D. RougeauNotre Dame, Ind., Feb. 10, 2007 The writer is an associate professor at Notre Dame Law School.To the Editor:
 Before we get swept up by Gar Alperovitz's enthusiasm for decentralization, let's remember two centuries of American history.
 Democracy was delivered to the disenfranchised not by devolving power to local authorities, but by expanding central government powers. Similarly, economic development across the continental United States was given a major boost by federal stimulation and regulation of interstate commerce.
 California is a powerhouse because it is part of the largest and most dynamic national economy in the world. 
 The vibrancy of any federal democracy (regardless of size) lies in its continuing ability to stimulate local dynamism and innovation while empowering a central government to safeguard the whole against the vices and parochialism of its parts.Edward L. GibsonEvanston, Ill., Feb. 10, 2007The writer is an associate professor of political science at Northwestern University.To the Editor:
 The morning after the 2004 election, my daughter, then 8 years old, asked, ''Did Kerry win?'' We said no. Then she asked, ''Did Kerry win New England?''
 Yes, he did. After some thoughtful silence, she then asked, ''Well, can he be president of New England?'' 
 Consider these historical inevitabilities: Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union had to break up. Iraq was defined by Britain. Ireland will be united. Palestine will achieve statehood. Had the Union let the Confederacy go, more than 600,000 lives would have been spared -- and the South wouldn't dominate national elections today.
 In 2008, it is exceedingly difficult for one presidential candidate to appeal to the entire nation. We are half a dozen or so distinct regions. The Northeast could have elected John Kerry. The South could have invaded Iraq without us.
 Who would have thought that it would be Arnold Schwarzenegger leading this new rebellion?Burt Cohen New Castle, N.H., Feb. 10, 2007 The writer was a New Hampshire state senator, 1990-2004, and a candidate for the United States Senate in 2004. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sam Friedman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); WRITERS (78%); HISTORY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%) United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%) Vincent D Rougeau; Edward L Gibson; Burt Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



355 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Humpty-Dumpty Housing

 BODY:
There is no sugarcoating the latest news on the United States housing market. The slump in home prices from the end of 2005 to the end of 2006 was the biggest year-over-year drop since the National Association of Realtors started keeping track in 1982. There are no reasons to believe that's the worst of it. 
 Prices fell in 73 of the nation's 149 major markets in the last quarter of 2006, compared with 45 declining markets in the third quarter, revealing a downturn that is not only deep but wide.
At the same time, the number of existing-home sales declined in 40 states, with precipitous drops in previously red-hot markets like Arizona, Florida, Nevada, California and Virginia. 
 On top of that, a glut of unsold homes virtually ensures that prices will fall further before sales pick up. At the end of 2006, the vacancy rate for family homes was the highest it has been since the Commerce Department started keeping records in 1956.
 Yet it came as a shock to many economists yesterday when the government reported that construction of new homes fell in January by 14.3 percent. The consensus forecast had been for a drop of less than 3 percent. 
 The bust will slow job growth this year in construction and related industries and, with it, consumer spending. The severity of these economic side effects will depend on the strength of the overall job market and the stability of interest rates -- both of which are anybody's guess. 
 Squarely in harm's way, however, are low- and middle-income homeowners, many of whom have mortgages with rates that are due to adjust upward this year and next. With delinquencies already surging, it is inevitable that a combination of higher mortgage payments and weakening home prices will cause many homeowners to default. 
 Lenders and regulators should prepare to do all they can to help. During the housing bubble, regulators stood by as mortgages were extended to borrowers with poor or no credit and little or no money for a down payment. Now that delinquencies and defaults are rising, lending standards are being tightened dramatically. That will make it harder for many existing homeowners to refinance their loans, thus hastening defaults. Lenders and regulators must use the utmost flexibility in applying the new standards. They got marginal buyers into the homes in the first place. They should now make every effort to keep them there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); SALES FIGURES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%) Housing; Editorials; Credit; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Mortgages; Defaulting; Housing

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



356 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: How Old McDonald Keeps His Farm

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO

DATELINE: PESCADERO, Calif. 

 BODY:
It was no ordinary business outing for Erik Franks. Under a steely sky one recent Saturday morning, Mr. Franks and some colleagues from a nearby law firm visited Harley Farms, a nine-acre dairy farm here, for a tour and a crash course in the art of making goat cheese.
 First, though, came an up-close-and-personal introduction to 200 American Alpine goats. The day began in a pasture, where a dozen goats surrounded Mr. Franks and began chewing on his clothes. Later, in the paddock, he held a four-day-old baby. In the milking parlor, he used his thumb and forefinger to pinch a goat's udder and squeeze fresh milk into a bowl.
''The whole milking thing was a lot easier than I expected,'' said Mr. Franks, 25, who works at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati in Palo Alto, a one-hour drive away. ''Definitely not the way I spend an average Saturday.'' The outing was arranged by the firm as part of a team-building exercise. 
 Mr. Franks's introduction to chevre is part of an effort that has farmers reaching out to urbanites and suburbanites in new and creative ways. With farm income for many family farmers still weak, many of them have been forced to diversify their operations with nonagricultural activities just to survive.
 Farmers describe these activities -- on-site markets, seasonal festivals and occasional overnight guests -- as agri-tourism. Most of these endeavors begin in the spring, making an already busy time of year even more hectic. The benefits can be undeniable.
 At Harley Farms, for example, the owner, Dee Harley, celebrates the arrival of baby goats by welcoming school groups, corporate teams and independent visitors into her world for a few hours upon request. All told, Ms. Harley gives 2 to 10 tours a week, year-round. The tours cost $10 a person and comprise at least 25 percent of annual revenue.
 ''We couldn't survive on tours alone, but the money we make from them certainly allows us to stay small and dedicated to quality artisan cheese-making,'' she said. ''It's become a huge and irreplaceable part of our income.''
 Agri-tourism is nothing new, of course. For years, American farmers have set up mazes of maize to entertain children as well as ''u-pick'' apple, blueberry and strawberry operations. These operations still exist.
 What's changed, however, is the economic climate that surrounds them. A recent study by the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State University indicates that over the last 30 years, farm income has remained flat while farm expenses have more than tripled.
 To balance their ledgers, many farmers have become dependent upon government subsidies and income from second jobs known as ''off-farm activities.'' Statistics from the Economic Research Service, an agency within of the Department of Agriculture, provide a snapshot of this situation. In 1977, family farmers had an average household income of $14,867 -- $10,636 of that from off-farm activities. By 2005, the gap between profit sources had widened, with the average income at $81,420 and off-farm income equaling $66,782.
 For many farmers today, agri-tourism is a way to reduce the need for a second job. While the Department of Agriculture does not keep statistics on how many of the country's 2.1 million farms engage in this activity, Jane Eckert, president of Eckert AgriMarketing, a consulting firm in St. Louis, estimated the number at 4 or 5 percent.
 Ms. Eckert said this number was up considerably from a 2 percent estimate she had made in the 1990s, and cited a 2000 study from Cornell University that reported farmers who turned to agri-tourism could be as much as 40 percent more profitable than those who did not.
 ''We know that people who are involved in agri-tourism have greater on-farm income to the extent that they're relying less on off-farm income,'' she said. ''For many, this extra income can make a huge difference in the quality of life.'' 
 This difference is evident at the Picket Fence Creamery, a grass-based cow dairy in Woodward, Iowa, about 30 miles northwest of Des Moines. The owners, Jeff and Jill Burkhart, sell milk, cheese, butter, ice cream and beef from a tiny store on the farm, and supplement profits with tours.
 These tours cost $5 a person and are similar to the ones at Harley Farms. Ms. Burkhart introduces visitors to some of the animals, and then leads them through the milking parlor and bottling plant. Out in the pasture, she teaches them about the benefits of avoiding artificial hormones. The two-hour experience concludes in the store, where each guest receives a glass of milk and a dish of ice cream.
 ''The tours were a pleasant afterthought that has definitely blossomed,'' Ms. Burkhart said. ''Our main income comes from milk and what we sell in the store, but agri-tourism raises extra money that comes in handy when we need it most.''
 Agri-tourism takes on a more rugged form at Sun Ranch in Cameron, Mont. Though the ranch is a working cattle ranch, every winter herds of elk swoop down from the Lee Metcalf Wilderness Area and park themselves in the pastures. In 2004, the owner of the ranch, Roger Lang, started selling photographic safaris for customers willing to brave the bone-chilling weather.
 The safari lasts five days. Every morning, a photography expert, Tom Murphy, leads guests from a lodge out among the elk, where he offers tips and hands-on instruction. Guests pay $3,200 to $4,700 apiece for this experience, and Mr. Lang said the ranch earned more from four or five safaris than it did from an entire year of ranching.
 ''We don't really make money from the cows in the winter, anyway,'' Mr. Lang said. He added that Sun Ranch offered other types of adventures including summer programs in fly fishing and hunting that brought in additional revenue throughout the year.
 ''We do a little bit of everything,'' he said.
 Such a mix of off-farm activities can reap big benefits. Mark Gregory Robson, director of the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., said agri-tourism worked just like the stock market, where diversifying investments also yielded higher returns.
 Still, he said, expanding an agri-tourism operation required planning, and farmers must conduct their own research before spending precious time and money on something new.
 ''The key to diversifying these efforts is a market that will support them,'' said Mr. Robson, who until recently farmed vegetables himself. ''Like anything, you have to know what people want and what they'll be willing to accept.''
 Matthew Rembe, executive director of the Los Poblanos Inn and Cultural Center in Los Ranchos de Albuquerque, N.M., learned these lessons long ago. Los Poblanos started as a small ranch, but over the years has grown to incorporate off-farm activities including an inn, an art gallery, a produce home-delivery service and a variety of seasonal celebrations throughout the year. 
 The most lucrative of these events is the annual Lavender in the Village Festival, where Los Poblanos welcomes visitors from all over the state. The farm frequently pulls in $10,000 over the course of a festival weekend. While Mr. Rembe said the event ''is not easy money,'' he added that in the long run, agri-tourism was as much about awareness as the bottom line.
 ''Whether it's a value-added product, a festival, or booking a room, agri-tourism is an educational process that over time encourages future customers to buy into what you're selling,'' Mr. Rembe said. ''If we can keep the community happy and interested, they'll keep sending us more business.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dee Harley gives 2 to 10 tours a week at her farm in Pescadero, Calif. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Cheese is Harley Farms' passion but tourism helps pay the bills.
 Jane Hansen of Half Moon Bay, Calif., looks over cheese at Harley Farms in Pescadero. Dee Harley said the money from tours ''allows us to stay small and dedicated to quality artisan cheese-making.'' (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CHEESE (89%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CHILDREN (75%); STRAWBERRY FARMING (72%); CHEESE MFG (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%) Agriculture; Travel and Vacations; Festivals

COMPANY: WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Harley Farms (Pescadero, Calif)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Pescadero (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



357 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Chavez Threatens to Jail Price Control ViolatorsFaced with an accelerating inflation rate and shortages of basic foods like beef, chicken and milk, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela has threatened to jail grocery store owners and nationalize their businesses if they violate the country's expanding price controls. Food producers and economists say the measures are likely to backfire. PAGE A3Battle Over Minimum WageThe House has approved a $1.3 billion tax cut for small businesses that will be linked with a bill to raise the minimum wage, but the Senate version is coupled with an $8.3 billion tax cut, setting up potentially difficult negotiations. 
 PAGE A10Doping Issue Hits U.S. RaceThe Tour of California, the country's top pro cycling race, acknowledged that last year it did not test for EPO, which is the sport's most abused performance-enhancing drug. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1Yoko Ono Driver in Plea DealYoko Ono's former driver, Koral Karsan, accused of trying to blackmail her for $2 million, pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of attempted grand larceny in the third degree as part of a plea deal. PAGE B1A Course Shift at Justice Dept. The prosecutor whose appointment as an interim United States attorney in Arkansas has ignited a furor in Congress will not be nominated for the job permanently. PAGE A12THIS WEEKENDHeeere's Early JohnnyAn ex-wife's wine closet yields kinescopes of ''The Johnny Carson Show,'' a precursor to the host's late-night work. ARTS & LEISURE, PAGE 34One Way to Carnegie HallIn Miami Beach, the New World Symphony's mission is to mold elite music graduates into consummate orchestra players. ARTS & LEISUREBefore the RevolutionIn Mayra Montero's novel ''Dancing to 'Almendra,' '' a reporter picks up the trail of the mob in Batista's Cuba. BOOK REVIEW

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Collection of Joanne Carson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXTORTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); TAX LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); APPROVALS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); CYCLING (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



358 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Bank to Acquire Compass of U.S.

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 16 

 BODY:
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, Spain's second-largest bank, after Santander, agreed to buy Compass Bancshares of the United States for $9.6 billion, making its biggest acquisition abroad in a market where it seeks to strengthen its foothold. 
 Banco Bilbao, or BBVA, said Friday that Compass shareholders can choose to receive either $71.80 in cash or 2.8 new BBVA shares for each of their current Compass shares. The offer represents a premium of about 16 percent to the average Compass share price during the last 10 days and 8 percent above Friday's closing price.
Spain's banks have profited from significant growth in the Spanish economy and a sharp increase in mortgage lending, even to foreigners who are buying holiday homes in the country. BBVA, based in Bilbao, in northern Spain, and Banco Santander Central Hispano, the country's largest bank, have used their profits to expand into Latin America, where economic growth has spurred demand for banking services. 
 BBVA owns BBVA Bancomer, the largest bank in Mexico by assets, while Santander has spent a total of $17 billion on various Latin American acquisitions since 1996. Santander now owns Mexico's No. 3 bank, Serfin, and Brazil's seventh-largest lender, Banespa.
 Last year, BBVA agreed to buy State National Bancshares and Texas Regional Bancshares for 2.1 billion euros. With the acquisition of Compass, based in Birmingham, Ala., BBVA will generate about 10 percent of its earnings in the United States. It will have 622 branches in Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Florida, New Mexico and Texas, holding a total of $47 billion of assets.
 ''Even though we can see the rationale behind expanding in the region, the price is very full,'' said Andy Lynch, who manages about 3 billion euros in European equities at Schroders in London. BBVA is paying about four times the book value of Compass and as much as 20 times its forecast 2007 earnings, according to Mr. Lynch. 
 Shares in BBVA dropped to 19.49 euros, down 2.4 percent, on the stock exchange in Madrid. The shares have risen 17 percent in the last year, giving it a market value of 69 billion euros ($90.6 billion).
 Spain's banks have had strong growth. BBVA generated 1.8 billion euros in profit from Mexico and the United States in 2006 after building a franchise that taps the cross-border market among the Hispanic community in the United States. Santander, which paid $:8.3 billion for Abbey National of Britain in 2004, said this month that higher revenue from Latin America helped raise fourth-quarter profit 13 percent. 
 Their growth and strong management have made Spain's banks a possible target for acquisitions by Europe's giant banks. But BBVA's acquisition of Compass may actually now make it less of a potential takeover target. 
 Francisco Gonzalo, BBVA's chairman, said last September that the bank received approaches from European and non-European rivals. BBVA's shares have gained after speculation that it could be of interest to the London-based HSBC Holdings or to Societe Generale of France.
 Mr. Gonzalo expansion plans were set back last year when he was outbid by BNP Paribas of France in an effort to buy the Italian lender BNL. The acquisition would have been BBVA's biggest since it paid 10.5 billion euros for Argentaria in 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (92%); BANCO SANTANDER SA (92%); BANCO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO SA (BANESPA) (55%); SANTANDER UK PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria Sa; Compass Bancshares Inc

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); BVA (LSE) (92%); BBVA (NYSE) (92%); BBVA (MCE) (92%); BBVA (BMV) (92%); SANT (LIS) (92%); SANT (BIT) (92%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); SAN (NYSE) (92%); SAN (MCE) (92%); SAN (BMV) (92%); BNC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (51%)

PERSON: Julia Werdigier

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (79%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) SPAIN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



359 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Mostly Good Reports on the Economy, but See Footnotes

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
GOOD luck in trying to persuade many people in Detroit, but times are pretty good. Welcome news about the economy and interest rates touched off a stock market rally that lifted the Dow Jones industrial average to a record.
 There were some developments to worry about, though, including the stubborn slump in the housing market, slow industrial growth and the trade deficit.LAST CHANCE? Even as the struggling Chrysler Group said it would eliminate 13,000 jobs in North America and close all or part of four plants to curb losses, its parent, DaimlerChrysler, said it was considering more radical options for the division, including spinning it off as a separate company or selling it.
The announcements came as DaimlerChrysler said it earned nearly $7.3 billion last year, even though Chrysler lost nearly $1.5 billion. A year earlier, Chrysler posted a profit of more than $2 billion, but the pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles largely responsible for that performance have fallen out of favor as gasoline prices rose. 
 In addition to the layoffs and plant closings, which some analysts interpreted as an effort to become more attractive as a merger partner, Chrysler said it would explore new partnerships with other carmakers. It is already working with Volkswagen to build minivans and with the Chinese manufacturer Chery to build small cars.
 Profitability will not return soon. Chrysler said it would take a $1.3 billion charge to cover the cost of restructuring and a separate $300 million charge for unsold inventory.PURRING ALONG -- In his semiannual report to Congress, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the economy was shifting smoothly from the rapid growth of recent years to a slower but more sustainable rate of expansion.
 He added that the Fed's current interest rate policy ''is likely to foster sustainable economic growth and a gradual ebbing of core inflation.'' That suggests that the Fed will hold its benchmark interest rate steady at 5.25 percent, where it has been since August.
 Mr. Bernanke's assurances did not placate Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. He said the danger of slower economic growth was just as important as faster inflation, and he urged lower rates.
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics will release the inflation rate for January on Wednesday.A DUBIOUS RECORD -- America's trade deficit -- the gap between what the country imports and what it exports -- widened to $763.6 billion in 2006, another record, the Commerce Department said.
 It was the fifth year in a row that the trade deficit broke through its previous record, which in 2005 stood at $716.7 billion. The rising cost of oil in December helped increase the gap, as did rising purchases of foreign cars and clothes.
 China once again accounted for the biggest single slice of the United States trade deficit. Over all, China ran a trade deficit in 2006, but its surplus with the United States was $232.5 billion on an unadjusted basis last year -- another record.
 Because a growing trade deficit inhibits economic growth, the government may reduce its estimate of how fast the gross domestic product grew last year, economists said.RULEBOOK ROLLBACK -- The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun to take steps on two fronts to protect corporations, executives and accounting firms from investor lawsuits that accuse them of fraud.
 The commission, for example, filed a brief in the Supreme Court supporting a move to make it harder for shareholders to prevail in fraud lawsuits against publicly traded companies and their executives. Days later, the agency said it wanted to protect accounting firms from large damage awards in suits filed by investors.
 Critics said the moves signaled a major watering-down of investor protections adopted after the collapse of Enron in 2001 and WorldCom a year later, and showed that a lobbying push by Wall Street and accounting firms was gaining traction. Christopher Cox, the S.E.C. chairman, said the changes were aimed at limiting what he called ''fraudulent lawsuits.''
 Industry groups are likely to continue to lobby the S.E.C. because Congress has rebuffed their efforts.GUILTY PLEAS -- Ryan A. Brant, the founder of Take-Two Interactive Software, the maker of the Grand Theft Auto video games, pleaded guilty to falsifying records in a stock-option-backdating scheme and agreed to pay $7.3 million in penalties.
 In a separate case, Myron F. Olesnyckyj, a former top executive of the company that runs the Monster job search Web site, pleaded to securities fraud and conspiracy by having illegally backdated millions of dollars in stock option grants.
 More than 130 other companies are under investigation for backdating options for its employees, a practice that causes accounting misstatements and tax problems.
 Both men may avoid prison if they help the authorities investigate other potential crimes at their former companies.IMPROPER PAYMENTS -- Johnson & Johnson, the drug and consumer products company, voluntarily disclosed that some of its foreign units might have made improper payments related to the sale of medical devices in two ''small-market countries.''
 The company did not identify the countries nor offer details of the payments but said they ''may fall within the jurisdiction of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.'' It added that the executive responsible for the units, Michael J. Dormer, had retired. 
 The foreign corruption law, enacted in 1977, forbids American companies from paying foreign government officials to win or influence business deals outside the United States.
 The company said it would cooperate with any investigation the authorities might undertake. A company found guilty of a felony can be barred from the Medicare program.MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Feb. 10 through Feb. 16:1. Questions Grow About a Top CNBC Anchor2. The No-Name Brand Behind the Latest Flat-Panel Price War3. Detroit's Slump Could Break Up Chrysler Group4. The 'Toyota Way' Is Translated for a New Generation of Foreign Managers5. Figuring Out Gift Giving in the Age of $2,000-a-Pound ChocolateLinks are at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke said the economy was shifting from the rapid growth of recent years to a slower but more sustainable rate of growth. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BONDS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); STATISTICS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PICKUP TRUCKS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (63%); ETHICS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) Automobiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); Factories and Industrial Plants ; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; United States Economy; Automobiles; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Accounting and Accountants; Fines (Penalties); Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor; Stocks and Bonds; Bribery; Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Daimlerchrysler Ag; Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department; Securities and Exchange Commission; Take-Two Interactive Software Inc; Johnson & Johnson Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); BARNEY FRANK (50%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Ryan A Brant; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



360 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-8House Passes Resolution Rebuking Bush on IraqA sharply divided House of Representatives passed a resolution formally repudiating President Bush's decision to send more than 20,000 new combat troops to Iraq. The resolution was approved 246 to 182. A1Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki told President Bush that the increased effort to provide security in Baghdad had gone exceedingly well so far, Mr. Maliki's office said. A6Iran's Shadowy Foreign ForceThe Quds Force, which conducts overseas operations for Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and is suspected by the United States of supplying sophisticated explosives to Iraqi militants, remains remarkably mysterious even to those who closely study the country. 
 A1Italy Indicts 26 AmericansAn Italian judge indicted 26 Americans, most of them C.I.A. agents, in connection with what will become the first trial of the American program of rendition, a practice of seizing suspected terrorists and interrogating them in other countries. A1Chavez Expands Price ControlsFaced with an accelerating inflation rate and shortages of basic foods, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela has threatened to jail grocery store owners and nationalize their businesses if they violate the country's expanding price controls. A3Anglican Rift Over Gays WidensSeven archbishops who say they represent more than 30 million Anglicans worldwide refused to take Communion in Tanzania with the new head of the American Episcopal Church, to protest her support of gay clergy members and blessings for same-sex unions. A3NATIONAL A10-12; 16House Votes for Tax Cut For Small BusinessesThe House voted 360 to 45 to pass a $1.3 billion tax cut for small business, which will be linked to a bill that would raise the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour from $5.15. A10A Campaign Against McCainSenator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who would like to be president, is a popular man in his state, having won re-election in 2004 with about 76 percent of the vote. But a vocal slice of the state's Republicans are agitating against him in a way that they hope might throw off his presidential campaign. A12A New Crime-Fighting ToolAt least seven states have enormous biometric databases of driver's license photographs or are working on them. The databases may become a radical innovation in law enforcement to fight crime, but critics say they may also represent a profound threat to privacy. A10Inquiry on Storm ResponseGov. Edward G. Rendell ordered a review of the state's ''unacceptable'' response to an ice and snow storm that left thousands of people stranded on three major interstate highways in central Pennsylvania. A11Texas Lawmaker ApologizesA leader of the Texas House of Representatives, Warren Chisum, apologized for circulating an appeal to ban the teaching of evolution as derived from ''Rabbinic writings'' and other Jewish texts. A16A Mayor's Affair InvestigatedThe city attorney in San Francisco is investigating whether any laws were broken in a payment to a married woman who had an affair with Mayor Gavin Newsom. A11NEW YORK/REGION B1-6Bloomberg Waives Tickets Issued After SnowstormA day after telling New Yorkers to stop ''griping'' over parking tickets issued to snowbound cars, Mayor Bloomberg apologized and promised to waive all such tickets issued in the two days after the storm. A1Legislators Served SubpoenasThe leaders of the New Jersey Legislature were served with subpoenas by federal prosecutors as part of an expanding investigation into corruption. The subpoenas intensified a weeklong battle between the Legislature and the United States attorney for New Jersey. B1BUSINESS DAY C1-10Worry Over Vaccine RushAt least 20 states are considering mandatory inoculation of young girls against the virus that causes cervical cancer, a policy that has some health experts worried. At about $400 the vaccine, manufactured by Merck, is costly, and many say the rush toward mandatory inoculation could prove counterproductive. A1Business Digest C2SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6Drug Maker Sponsors RaceThe Tour of California has become the country's most important professional cycling event, but its organizers said last year that they did not test for what has become the sport's most abused drug, EPO -- the genetically enhanced version of which is produced by the race's lead sponsor. D1OBITUARIES A13Ray EvansA pop lyricist who teamed up with the composer Jay Livingston to write the Christmas standard ''Silver Bells,'' he was 92. A13EDITORIAL A14-15Editorials: On to the hard part on Iraq; smile, you're on N.Y.P.D. camera; Humpty-Dumpty housing; the future of farming. Columns: Maureen Dowd, Ann Althouse.Bridge B18Crossword B17TV Listings B20Weather B7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); NATIONALIZATION (71%); BIOMETRICS (71%); TAX LAW (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); HUGO CHAVEZ (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ED RENDELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2007



361 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4280 words

HEADLINE: The Face-the-Music Academy

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
SOUNDING like an elephant running sprints, Matthew Heller, a double bassist with the New World Symphony, rumbled through a swift, disembodied passage from Mozart's Symphony No. 35. Twenty-nine years old, a thin man with small rectangular glasses and red hair, he hunched over his hulking instrument and moved on to snippets of Beethoven's Symphony No. 5, Stravinsky's ''Pulcinella'' Suite and Brahms's Symphony No. 1. A crisp voice behind a black cloth screen asked him to replay sections with different tempos, better accents, a more even volume. 
 ''I don't think even Karajan took it that slow,'' the voice said, referring to the sometimes ponderous Austrian maestro Herbert von Karajan, who died in 1989. ''Can I hear a traditional tempo?''
Mr. Heller was struggling to play perfectly, yet with musicality and personality. For four months he had been practicing these excerpts in excruciating detail, preparing for auditions to win an orchestra job and a future in music. On this day in mid-November inside a theater lobby, the ordeal was hardly made easier by the window washer squeegeeing the glass door or by Beethoven's ''Eroica'' playing from a video screen outside. 
 As it happens, though, this was no ordinary audition. It was a mock audition, a bit of play-acting painstakingly constructed to recreate the pressure of the real thing. Real auditions are torturous rituals, the crucible that every classical musician must withstand: a 10-minute blur of excerpts with consequences that can last decades. The results of those 10 minutes determine not just the future of a player's career but also the eventual composition and sound of orchestras, including many of the world's greatest.
 Orchestras themselves tend to view auditions as a necessary, sometimes tedious duty. But the New World Symphony, a unique cultural animal in the heart of hedonistic South Beach, has turned auditions and other career-development duties into the core of its mission.
 In the increasingly professionalized world of modern orchestras, where merely playing beautifully no longer guarantees musical greatness, ticket sales or successful capital campaigns, New World has set itself a distinctive mission: to mold graduates of elite conservatories and university music programs into the ultimate orchestra players while also trying to field a world-class performing ensemble. (The latest results will be on display at Carnegie Hall on Feb. 27 and 28.) The model player is not just a technical whiz but also a musician who can converse with the public, meld into an ensemble, generate interesting programming ideas, schmooze with donors and teach. 
 At a time when classical music faces declining audiences and, some say, irrelevance, the sort of mission espoused by New World is seen as crucial. 
 ''For orchestras to survive in the current socio-economic environment,'' said Henry Fogel, president of the American Symphony Orchestra League, ''they're going to have to mean something to people in the community who might never come to a subscription concert.'' 
 IT ALL STARTED WITH A CRUISE SHIP.
 A Carnival Cruise ship, to be exact. In his youth Ted Arison, the company's founder, had hoped to be a pianist. Eventually abandoning that dream, he went on to build a fortune selling vacation packages. But he never lost interest in classical music. 
 He and his wife, Lin Arison, founded the National Foundation for Advancement in the Arts, which gives grants to artistically accomplished high school seniors. Then in 1986, while on vacation in England, they heard an impressive performance by young musicians. With their own city, Miami, notably lacking a professional orchestra, they put two and two together and decided to start a professional youth orchestra.
 A mutual acquaintance led them to the conductor Michael Tilson Thomas, a former protege of Leonard Bernstein and now leader of the San Francisco Symphony. It turned out that Mr. Thomas had long been thinking about the need to nurture young orchestra musicians. When he and Mr. Arison met, he presented a list of the things such an orchestra would need -- a building, faculty, administration -- and Mr. Arison signed off on each one.
 ''I said, 'To do all of that you'd have to be like the czar of Russia,' '' Mr. Thomas recalled. ''He just kind of winked and said, 'I'm close.' ''
 Mr. Arison, who was one of the world's richest men when he died in 1999, eventually contributed $62 million. 
 After the orchestra's start in 1987, there were bumpy moments. Local professional musicians worried about the establishment of a major nonunion orchestra with the power to draw big-name conductors and soloists. In Year 5 New World's first board chairman was indicted in the big securities and loan scandal; eventually he went to jail.
 Now finishing its second decade, the orchestra has reached a turning point. This season it became a resident group at Miami's lavish new Carnival Center for the Performing Arts. And it is planning a $135 million hall and headquarters, designed by Frank Gehry (who, back in the 1950s, baby-sat for Mr. Thomas). 
 The City of Miami Beach has leased it the land for $1 a year, though the orchestra still faces the long haul of raising the money. The building will rise next door to New World's current home, once an abandoned pornographic-movie theater, on Lincoln Road, where the tattooed, shirtless and chic parade by and pop music pulses from every doorway.
 The world has other top-flight training orchestras, but none offer this amount of training and professional simulation under a maestro of the stature of Mr. Thomas. And none have New World's endowment of $72.5 million (with an annual budget of $8.5 million), which gives it extraordinary security to pursue its unorthodox mission.
 Looked at in one way New World is like a job simulation machine. It has all the trappings of the big time: weekly pay, a subscription series, nearly 70 concerts a season, tours, recordings and sophisticated brochures.
 At the same time New World is a postgraduate training ground similar to a medical residency. Some of the most famous figures in classical music -- including Yo-Yo Ma, Pinchas Zukerman, the Emerson String Quartet, Emanuel Ax, Joshua Bell, Midori and John Adams -- stream in to spend time with the fellows, as the members are called. Players from the world's storied orchestras -- the Chicago Symphony, the Vienna Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra -- coach them in the nuances of orchestra playing, audition taking, coping with revolving-door conductors. 
 Other experts teach practical matters: managing personal finances, talking to donors, even handling a journalist. And the fellows are sent out to teach in local schools, act as mentors to young musicians, play in nursing homes.
 Mr. Heller, a solid, conscientious musician with a shy quality and a slow, thoughtful way of speaking, is in some ways a typical New World fellow. He is native of Tacoma, Wash., and a graduate of the New England Conservatory in Boston, with a master's degree in performance from Northwestern. He volunteers as organizer of the fellows' mock auditions, and he blogs, discoursing soberly on double bass affairs, the nature of performance, the artists who pass through New World and other matters (hellafrisch.blogspot.com). 
 Having become increasingly frustrated with the music world and having looked toward medical school as an escape, he won a place in New World in 2004. It was a resurrection, he said, adding, ''It felt like maybe I was destined to do this after all.''
 Now in his third year, Mr. Heller has taken about 10 major auditions, finishing as runner-up with the Naples Philharmonic in Florida and reaching the semifinals at several major orchestras, including the Metropolitan Opera and the Minnesota Orchestra: not bad showings. 
 ''Being here has taught me what the experience is all about,'' he said backstage one day. ''Being around people who are winning jobs is a very inspiring thing and a very motivating thing.''
 Mr. Heller was one of about 1,000 musicians who applied to New World in 2004 for about 30 openings. He and his colleagues stay for three years, with a fourth possible in some cases. 
 Most are single and in their mid- to late-20s. A quarter come from abroad. They are all given weekly stipends of $425 (and $30 in recording fees), and they live rent-free in two former hotels acquired by the orchestra. An Art Deco mural showing a scene of beach abandon (with painted-over nipples) adorns the circular lobby of one. Past it lies a lounge area with a large television and a U of couches and easy chairs, fellows slung over them.
 Outside there's a pool. Fellows loaf around the patio, where the occasional keg party or pig roast takes place. Except for the sounds of practicing that fill the halls -- snippets of Strauss's ''Don Juan'' and Mozart's Bassoon Concerto on a recent afternoon -- it feels like college. 
 One day last fall Mr. Heller lugged his double bass onstage at the Lincoln Theater for rehearsal. Other musicians pulled up on bicycles, instrument cases slung over their backs. They wore flip-flops and shorts in the steamy morning air. Mr. Thomas, a slim, lithe man, his hair still wet and slicked back from a shower, appeared on the podium. He wore an open-neck blue dress shirt, his sleeves rolled up to the elbow. 
 The orchestra was set to rehearse ''The Sorcerer's Apprentice'' by Paul Dukas, a brilliant showpiece forever to be associated with Mickey Mouse thanks to ''Fantasia.'' After lecturing a bit on Goethe, whose poem inspired the work, Mr. Thomas began the rehearsal. 
 Conducting without a baton, he often sang, illustrating passages in a flexible tenor and exaggerating syllables like ''yaaa-daaa, yaaa-dohhh'' to illustrate a slurpy passion, sounding something like Jackie Mason and drawing smiles from his charges. At times he had sections of the orchestra play a passage in slow motion, forcing attention on every note. 
 He asked the trumpets at one point to sound more ''roosterish'' and ''cackly.'' Like a sorcerer himself, he conjured composers of the past. ''That's leftover Berlioz, but we can still make it great,'' he said of one passage. In a fast section he told the orchestra members to be like racecar drivers: ''Don't flinch at the turns.'' 
 I sat onstage near a small, spiky-haired young woman in white cowboy boots and cutoff jeans who was harrumphing on a contrabassoon. The sound of the orchestra was explosive, and the musicians registered their approval of one another in the traditional way: by scraping their feet, sticking out a leg, shaking a foot.
 Not yet jaded by the professional world, they were on the cusp of careers in an incredibly competitive world, struggling to establish the self-confidence of professionals. They chafed, sometimes, at the school-like aspects of New World but also fretted about the real world they would soon be thrust into. Their efforts to project optimism and idealism were touching.
 ''There's very few things more exciting than being part of a huge machine, part of a huge effort,'' said Naomi Gray, a cellist. ''The power of music is monumental, and the more I play here, the more I realize that.''
 But they would soon be heading into a particularly busy audition season. Over the next two months tryouts were being held for a number of positions, including principal percussionist at the Chicago Symphony, second trumpeter at the St. Louis Symphony, cellist at the Detroit Symphony, bassoonist at the Utah Symphony, violinist at the Philadelphia Orchestra and -- of special interest to Mr. Heller -- principal bassist at the Buffalo Philharmonic. New Worlders would all try for the openings, sometimes arriving in groups and often competing against one another. 
 FROM THE OUTSIDE, AUDITIONS SEEM like bizarrely mannered rituals, divorced from the context in which music is normally made. Candidates play a series of the hardest bits of one strand of an orchestral score. To eliminate favoritism, they are usually hidden by screens, their footsteps muffled by carpets lest the sound of high heels reveal their sex. Individual musicians play for an eye blink to prove they will be expert ensemble players -- and good colleagues -- for decades to come. 
 ''It's a stupid-human trick,'' said Jeremy Branson, a percussion fellow. And it can be a crapshoot. The player who does not make it past the first round at the Podunk Symphony one year can win a job at the Chicago Symphony the next. But as many fellows acknowledged, no one has figured out a better way.
 New World gives auditioners a powerful boost. It guarantees time off. It runs through so much repertory that players know the context of many passages they might be asked to perform. And because they rotate parts -- from, say, first horn to fourth horn -- they are prepared to audition for different roles. 
 Beyond that, New World emphasizes practical matters. What sound does the Chicago Symphony want from a cymbal? How do you react if a member of the audition committee yawns audibly? Should you ask to start over if you flub a passage? How do you deal with lousy hotels? Most important, how do you conquer fear, nerves and self-doubt? 
 The pivotal tool is the mock audition, which New World has refined into an art. Often the fellows contend with planned intrusions of ringing cellphones or rustling newspapers to steel them for the unexpected. Players audition for one another, for Mr. Thomas, for the outside coaches.
 Always the point is the same: to see them safely married off to a new orchestra. ''It hurts a little bit to say goodbye,'' said Howard Herring, the orchestra's affable president and chief executive officer. ''But it is our job to move them on.'' 
 It has done that job very well. Of the 676 alumni before this season started, New World said, at least 619 have jobs in music, most of them with professional orchestras. Sixteen alumni play in the so-called Big Five orchestras: Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, New York and Philadelphia. More than two dozen play in other elite orchestras, like those in Pittsburgh, St. Louis, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Others inhabit the ranks of regional orchestras or foreign groups like the Bamberg Symphony in Germany, the BBC Symphony in London and the Royal Stockholm Opera. 
 Despite that record of success, a current of anxiety runs through the fellows, particularly those in their third year. ''It's entirely possible I'm going to leave here and not have a job,'' said Aaron Merritt, a cellist preparing for the Detroit audition, who called third year ''death row.''
 ''You invest so much -- not only money but practicing, anticipation and anxiety,'' he added. ''If you really want it, you have to be 120 percent prepared.'' 
 For Elizabeth Jaffe, a 29-year-old violist from San Jose, Calif., the stakes were even higher. She decided that if she didn't have a musical career by 30, she would move on, as inconceivable as that prospect was.
 ''I've been doing this forever,'' she said. ''I don't know anything else.'' While Mr. Heller was preparing for his big audition in Buffalo, Ms. Jaffe was trying for the job of assistant principal violist at the Richmond Symphony, even though she had never imagined herself as anything but a player in the middle of the section.
 Until the fellows leave, Mr. Merritt said, preparing for auditions is ''the No. 1 reason we are here.''
 ''We've been competing our entire life about getting into school, about winning a competition, about getting this seat in an orchestra,'' he added. ''It gets grating. I think we all notice it, an air of competitive energy.''
 The other source of energy at New World is Mr. Thomas. During dinner at one of the more upscale spots on Lincoln Road, he spoke of New World as a place for the young players to take a sort of musical Hippocratic oath: '' 'I will do this because of my love of learning and caring about people,' as opposed to, 'I can become such a star plastic surgeon that I can have a 19-car garage.' '' 
 New World is also a ''launching pad for people's lives,'' a sabbatical-like moment for young players to explore different ways to make a career in music, he said. ''My personal mission is to have them hold onto 'What does this mean?' I'm trying to give the larger message of what music is all about.'' 
 When in residence Mr. Thomas is a walking, talking master class. He meets with the fellows, collaborates with visiting luminaries, drops in on workshops, helps with mock auditions, holds training sessions. 
 To anyone who saw him as the boyish leader of the New York Philharmonic's Young People's Concerts in the 1970s, he is, at a strikingly energetic 62, an unlikely elder statesman. When I made a passing reference to Bernstein, he jumped into a discussion of Bernstein's compositional technique, pointing out how a phrase from ''On the Town'' was borrowed from Mahler's 10th Symphony after passing through an ''Appalachian Spring'' transformer. He sang each version of the theme with an emphasis on the common rising interval. 
 His view of classical music remains unabashedly messianic. ''We're living in a time in which every conceivable tradition is being exalted so much, every possible expression of art is sort of being considered to be the same,'' he said. ''What I'm saying is, 'Listen, this is a 1,200-year-long tradition of classical music you're talking about here.' Basically from now back to the time of Gregorian chant it's demonstrably a particular line of thought concerning what sound does, what music does.''
 But he recognizes that those who carry on that tradition face pressures their forebears never knew. ''Anybody who can play as a professional musician for 40 or 50 years and come out of it with his soul intact -- or even better, well nourished -- is the big winner,'' he said.
 IN THE DAYS LEADING UP TO HIS BIG audition in Buffalo, Mr. Heller was touched by doubts about how much longer he could keep plugging away at the tryouts. ''If I don't get a job this year,'' he told himself, ''I could consider giving it another year. Then I would probably look for other options'' -- options outside music. 
 He took solace in something Jeffrey Turner, a bassist in the Pittsburgh Symphony, had said while coaching him at New World: ''He said that if I don't advance, it won't be because I'm not a strong musical player. It will just be because of these little technical issues he's been talking about with me. That was really important to me, because sometimes I have a hard time in having confidence. I don't have a huge sound, or am naturally talented like I think other people are.''
 Mr. Heller arrived in Buffalo a day early, hoping for an advance look at the hall. But he found that Neil Sedaka was playing there. Too uninspiring. He settled for looking at images on the orchestra's Web site.
 At the hotel breakfast the next day, he ran into an old friend: Scott Dixon, a New World alumnus. ''We talked about New World stuff and people,'' Mr. Heller said. Mr. Dixon was there for the same audition. Back in his room Mr. Heller could hear his friend practicing. ''We got a little of the warm-up room syndrome already in the hotel,'' he said.
 His stomach in turmoil, he skipped lunch and went to the hall, where he was told he would be the 25th to play out of 65. His warm-up space was near the furnace and quite hot. But his hands were cold, so maybe the heat was good, he thought. ''The whole thing is how you spin your own positive narrative out of it,'' he said. He ate a banana, having heard somewhere that bananas contain tryptophan, which has a calming effect. 
 Only four excerpts were on the list. ''Four excerpts,'' he thought. ''If I have to go home after four excerpts, that's going to be a bummer.''
 When his time came, Mr. Heller was told not to play a note until his first excerpt. (Many musicians have signature warm-up noodles, which can give their identities away.) Then he was directed to a long diagonal carpet that led to a pair of music stands. Earplugs from a previous concert littered the stage. He recognized lighting fixtures from the Web site.
 The first item was the bass recitative in the ''Ode to Joy'' movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Mr. Heller thought it was an auspicious opening: a big declarative statement that prefigures the bass vocalist's solo line: ''Oh friends, not these tones! Let us raise our voices in more pleasing and more joyful sounds!''
 He said, ''If you need to find your sound in a new place it's a good one to do it.'' His heart was pounding less than it usually did on such occasions. ''I wasn't feeling crazily nervous,'' he said. 
 Then it was on to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, the famous bass passage in the trio of the scherzo. He tried to set a clear tempo and thought about Mr. Turner's warning not to shortchange half-notes. But a diminuendo at the end could have been more graceful, with better vibrato on the last note. 
 The first phrase of a passage from Mozart's Symphony No. 40 fell flat. He thought back to an audition panel the previous week, when the Toronto Symphony's principal trumpeter, Andrew McCandless, stressed that showing the committee how you can recover from a mistake is just as valuable as playing perfectly. Don't stop, he told himself. 
 Then came a passage from the last page of Strauss's tone poem ''Don Juan.'' He had never seen it before, but he plowed through and nailed it. The audition was over. A laconic voice said, ''Thank you.'' 
 He joined others in the waiting room. An orchestra staff member came in with a little slip of paper. ''She said, 'Thank you very much for coming,' '' Mr. Heller recalled. '' 'The committee has actually chosen three of you.' '' He was one of the three.
 Mr. Heller had advanced to the semifinals. He walked out into the cold, empty streets of Buffalo feeling great. ''I had something to celebrate,'' he said. He called his mother to tell her.
 The morning of his second round in Buffalo, Mr. Heller was checking out to move to a hotel closer to the hall when he ran into Mr. Dixon, the New World alumnus he knew from the auditioning circuit. He refrained from asking how Mr. Dixon had done the day before. ''I didn't want him to feel bad if he didn't advance, and he probably thought I didn't advance because I was moving my stuff out of the hotel. It was strange and awkward.''
 He took the bus to the hall. While waiting for a warm-up room, he listened to a Chicago Symphony recording of ''Don Juan'' on his iPod, then in the same overheated room he played scales. The audition routine was the same, but this time there were six excerpts. ''Again there was the 'Thank you,' '' Mr. Heller said. ''It seemed like a little more encouraging 'Thank you' than the other day.'' Back in the waiting room, after about 15 minutes, an official came in and announced that players Nos. 9 and 10 had advanced. 
 Mr. Heller was No. 12, and done with Buffalo.
 ''I'm trying to analyze every note I played and figure out, was that the one that revealed my ineptitude?'' he said. ''I'm realizing that was not the way to think about it. I just didn't play stuff as well as you want to hear a principal player play it.'' He wondered about his competitors. ''I wasn't good enough today, but who is? What's the standard?''
 Eventually the Buffalo Philharmonic picked a candidate for the principal job: Scott Dixon. Two months later, Mr. Dixon would win an audition for the more prestigious Cleveland Orchestra. And as for Elizabeth Jaffe, the violist who had given herself an ultimatum, the Richmond Symphony offered her the job of assistant principal. ''I guess I kind of broke my curse,'' she said, questioning her old back-of-the-section mind-set. ''Maybe I am cut out for something.''
 Other fellows won the jobs of principal oboist in San Diego and principal cellist in Memphis. In all, 10 New Worlders have found positions since the year began. ''It certainly is a really fine start,'' Mr. Herring said.
 For those still looking, life went on at New World, with seminars on stage etiquette and how to reach new audiences; a concerto competition; a barbecue at the lavish home of the board chairman, Gerald Katcher, in Coconut Grove; and of course concerts. 
 Three weeks after Mr. Heller and Ms. Jaffe auditioned, they were back on the Lincoln Theater's stage with the rest of the orchestra for a new-music concert, conducted by the Austrian composer H K Gruber. 
 First on the program were works by Brett Dean and James MacMillan, who introduced their pieces via an Internet2 hookup, their images broadcast on the wall behind the stage. Mr. MacMillan's comments were recorded in Scotland, but Mr. Gruber interviewed Mr. Dean live from Australia. At intermission in the lobby, audience members came to shake Mr. Thomas's hand.
 Back in their seats, they heard ''Frankenstein!!,'' Mr. Gruber's wild romp for orchestra, toy instruments and chansonnier. Mr. Gruber conducted while half-singing the score's demented nursery rhymes and playing a slide whistle and other toy instruments. Ms. Jaffe and her fellow violists did double duty on kazoos. 
 Gavin Dougherty, the timpanist, blew up paper bags and popped them in time, balling them up and throwing them toward the audience. At one point the entire orchestra stood and sang. Players waved plastic hosepipes to create eerie whistling sounds. And when it was over, the audience gave a standing ovation. 
 After the concert many of the players gathered at Zeke's, the cheapest watering hole along Lincoln Road, where beers are $3. ''It felt really good to be back in front of all those people,'' Mr. Heller said, ''and with the section.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Matthew Heller, left, said winning a place in the New World was encouraging: ''It felt like maybe I was destined to do this after all.'' Below, another fellow, Andrew Wickesberg, a violist.
Rebekah Heller, a bassoonist and New World fellow, outside the symphony's home theater
bottom right, Michael Tilson Thomas coaches Jerome Gordon. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
(Photo by Gary T'to/New World Symphony)(pg. 24)
The symphony acts as a job simulation machine for fellows like Christopher Davis, left, and Gavin Dougherty, below.
In addition to rehearsing, left, fellows teach in local schools and serve as mentors to young musicians. Below, members live rent-free in two former hotels. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 25)
 (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); THEATER (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); FUNDRAISING (66%); MAMMALS (58%) Music

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New World Symphony

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin; Matthew Heller

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



362 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Literary Agent

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO. 
Rachel Donadio is a writer and editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
When E. Howard Hunt died last month at 88, he was remembered as the longtime Central Intelligence Agency officer who helped organize the botched Bay of Pigs invasion and served jail time for orchestrating the Watergate break-in. Less well known is that Hunt was once a promising literary writer. 
 Like so many in the first wave of C.I.A. men, Hunt, a Brown graduate, worked for the Office of Strategic Services during World War II, then headed to Europe in 1948, where he traveled in the Paris-Vienna orbit of other literary-minded Ivy Leaguers working in government jobs, some covertly. He spent much of the '50s in Latin America, and left the agency in 1970, having been sidelined in the '60s after the Bay of Pigs mission went awry. But before all that, while still in his 20s, Hunt published short stories in The New Yorker and Cosmopolitan, then a showcase for serious fiction. 
Not exactly on a par with Nabokov and Cheever, whose work was appearing in The New Yorker at the same time, Hunt instead imitated the hard-boiled Hemingwayesque style in vogue in those years. ''I thought of the North Atlantic, where I'd rolled around on a tin can for almost a year,'' he wrote in ''Departure,'' a story about soldiers waiting to be sent home from the South Pacific, published in December 1943. ''That had been tough, too, but there was always Boston or New York or Norfolk at one end of the line and Reykjavik or Londonderry at the other. At least they were places. Towns, cities, villages with people and pubs and stores and shops and girls who looked like girls you'd seen before.''
 Hunt's first novel, ''East of Farewell,'' published in 1942, when he was 23, was also a fictionalized account of his time on convoy duty in the North Atlantic. Hunt recalled his surprise when the prestigious publisher Knopf agreed to take it on. ''Amazingly to me, the work was quickly accepted,'' Hunt wrote in his memoir, ''American Spy,'' which is scheduled to appear in March. ''Reviews were all I could have hoped for, but I couldn't compete with the real-life war blaring in the newspaper headlines and newsreels. Sales were not good enough to escalate me to full-time author.'' 
 The New York Times reviewer called ''East of Farewell'' a ''crashing start for a new writer.'' Critics weren't so fond of Hunt's fourth novel, ''Bimini Run'' (1949), a love triangle set in the Caribbean. The Times found it ''lifeless and unexciting,'' but it sold 150,000 copies and Warner Brothers bought it for $35,000, a fortune at the time. In 1946, Hunt had been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship and had gone to Mexico to write a novel, ''Stranger in Town,'' which sold well in paperback. That year, two other up-and-coming writers were denied the same fellowship. ''The only thing Truman Capote and I have in common was Howard Hunt beat us out for a Guggenheim,'' Gore Vidal recalled in an interview. ''That sort of summed up my view of prizes and foundation work; they would instinctively go to the one who was least deserving.'' 
 In 1948, Hunt went to Paris to work for the Marshall Plan, ostensibly distributing aid through the Economic Cooperation Administration. There, Hunt crossed paths with another former O.S.S. man, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. In his 2000 memoir, ''A Life in the Twentieth Century,'' Schlesinger recalled that Hunt had ''attracted attention'' in the E.C.A. ''as a certified published novelist.'' ''I did not much like him; he seemed on the sneaky side,'' Schlesinger wrote. In a recent telephone interview, Schlesinger said he hadn't read any of Hunt's books, but reiterated that he found him ''a sneaky character.'' In his 1974 memoir, ''Undercover,'' Hunt was similarly dismissive of Schlesinger, seeing him as part of ''the E.C.A.'s ambivalent attitude toward Communism.''
 Indeed, Hunt's hard-line views increasingly put him at odds with the more genteel anti-Communist liberalism prevalent within the C.I.A. in those years. It was a stance he shared with William F. Buckley Jr., who joined the C.I.A. after graduating from Yale and worked undercover for Hunt in Mexico City, one of the first agency men posted there in the early years of the cold war. Beyond politics, the two men also shared a taste for good food and wine, often dining at what Hunt said was ''then the only good French restaurant in Mexico City.'' 
 In an interview, Buckley recalled that Hunt was remarkably prolific. ''He did have a reputation for simply holing up on a Wednesday morning and then finishing the book by the weekend,'' Buckley said. ''But he never discussed it. That was a completely discrete operation.''
 Back in Washington after the Bay of Pigs fiasco, Hunt wrote increasingly pulpy, glamorous espionage fantasies, far removed from the drudgery of his actual duties. In a column last month, Buckley recalled that Allen Dulles, then head of the agency, told Hunt -- who wrote more than 70 novels -- that he could continue to publish his fiction without clearance, as long as he used a pseudonym. (Hunt's noms de plume included John Baxter, Robert Dietrich and David St. John.) ''Hunt handed me his latest book, 'Catch Me in Zanzibar,' by Gordon Davis,'' Buckley wrote. ''I leafed through it and found printed on the last page, 'You have just finished another novel by Howard Hunt.' I thought this hilarious. So did Howard. The reaction of Allen Dulles is not recorded.''
 It was Hunt's time working for the C.I.A. in South America -- when he helped overthrow the leftist president Jacobo Arbenz of Guatemala in 1954 and later became station chief in Montevideo, Uruguay -- that caught the attention of Norman Mailer, who included a fictionalized portrait of Hunt in ''Harlot's Ghost,'' his 1991 novel about the C.I.A. In one scene, Mailer describes a dinner at an agency safe house in Key Biscayne. ''I used to engage the place occasionally during the pre-Pigs period, but Howard occupies it now, and demonstrates for me that there are amenities to agency life,'' the narrator says. ''We had a corkeroo of a repast, polished off with a Chateau Yquem, served up -- I only learn of their existence at this late date -- by two contract agency caterers, who shop for special occasions, chef it forth in haute cuisine, and serve it themselves.''
 ''I found him fascinating,'' Mailer said of Hunt in a recent interview. ''Not in a large way but as a man of middle rank in intelligence. He was so full of virtues and vices and airs and vanities that I thought he made a marvelous character.'' 
 Vidal called Hunt's prose ''overheated, slightly dizzy.'' In a comprehensive analysis of Hunt's work published in The New York Review of Books in 1973, Vidal introduced the eccentric theory that Hunt might have written the diary that was found in the car of Arthur H. Bremer, the unemployed busboy who in 1972 attempted to assassinate Gov. George Wallace of Alabama. ''I was fairly convinced after reading the diaries very carefully when they finally came out that he must have had a hand in them,'' Vidal said recently. ''I'm still convinced of it. There are similarities in the style.''
 Vidal's essay appeared in the heat of the Watergate scandal. No longer with the C.I.A. -- he later said he quit the agency because it ''was infested with Democrats,'' although by then his C.I.A. career had pretty much run aground -- Hunt wasworking in public relations and still writing novels when he got a call from another Brown alumnus, Charles Colson, then special counsel to President Nixon. Colson recruited Hunt to help wiretap the Democratic National Committee headquarters and organize the break-in. 
 When the scandal broke, Buckley offered Hunt the services of his personal attorney for his Watergate trial. But in his column, he offered a scathing assessment of his former boss. ''Hunt had lived outside the law in the service first of his country, subsequently of President Nixon,'' he wrote. Hunt had invented himself through his novels, but even in the largest sense, his fictions were at odds with the truth. In the end, Buckley wrote, ''Hunt, the dramatist, didn't understand that political realities at the highest level transcend the working realities of spy life.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''John Baxter'' was one of Hunt's pseudonyms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (91%); LITERARY AGENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); WORLD WAR II (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PUBLISHING (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%) Books and Literature; Watergate Affair

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%) Central Intelligence Agency; New Yorker (Magazine)

PERSON: Rachel Donadio; E Howard Hunt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (72%); LATIN AMERICA (71%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



363 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 18, 2007

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	4	PLUM LOVIN', by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $16.95.) A mysterious man in Stephanie Plum's life helps her track down a matchmaker who skipped bail.		 	 	 	2	2	19	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	3*		1	THE ALEXANDRIA LINK, by Steve Berry. (Ballantine, $25.95.) A former Justice Department operative turned bookseller hides a link to the secrets of the vanished library of Alexandria from wealthy international thugs.		 	 	 	4	3	12	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	5	10	9	HANNIBAL RISING, by Thomas Harris. (Delacorte, $27.95.) The childhood and adolescence of Hannibal Lecter shed light on how he became ''death's prodigy.''		 	 	 	6	5	2	THE CASTLE IN THE FOREST, by Norman Mailer. (Random House, $27.95.) An imagined life of the young Adolf Hitler.		 	 	 	7*		1	DEEP STORM, by Lincoln Child. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A doctor investigates diseases at an ocean-floor research facility that may have discovered the ruins of Atlantis.		 	 	 	8	4	2	WHITE LIES, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Putnam, $24.95.) Two members of the Arcane Society, dedicated to paranormal research, investigate a series of murders.		 	 	 	9		1	HIDE, by Lisa Gardner. (Bantam, $25.) Bobby Dodge, a former sniper with the Massachusetts State Police, now a detective, unravels a mystery that begins with the discovery of six corpses beneath a state mental hospital.		 	 	 	10		1	ALLEGIANCE, by Timothy Zahn. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) Events that occurred between ''A New Hope'' and ''The Empire Strikes Back'' : a ''Star Wars'' novel.		 	 	 	11	6	3	YOU SUCK, by Christopher Moore. (Morrow, $21.95.) A 19-year-old discovers that his girlfriend is a vampire -- and now, so is he.		 	 	 	12	8	5	THE HUNTERS, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $26.95.) An Army officer seeks the killers of a shady American diplomat murdered in Uruguay.		 	 	 	13	13	10	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.		 	 	 	14	9	4	EXILE, by Richard North Patterson. (Holt, $26.) A San Francisco lawyer defends a Palestinian woman accused of assassinating the Israeli prime minister.		 	 	 	15	12	3	bad blood, by Linda Fairstein. (Scribner, $26.) The Manhattan assistant district attorney Alexandra Cooper discovers a link between a wealthy woman's murder and an explosion in a city water tunnel.		 	 	 	16*	14	9	THE BOLEYN INHERITANCE, by Philippa Gregory. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) Politics and treachery in the court of Henry VIII.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	16	1	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	2	13	3	BORN ON A BLUE DAY, by Daniel Tammet. (Free Press, $24.) A memoir by an autistic savant who can perform extraordinary mathematical calculations.		 	 	 	3	2	11	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	4	3	17	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	5	6	3	POWER, FAITH, and FANTASY, by Michael B. Oren. (Norton, $35.) A history of America's relations with the Middle East starting in 1776.		 	 	 	6	7	27	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7	4	68	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	8	8	20	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational and that religion has done great harm in the world.		 	 	 	9	9	96	 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	10	11	19	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	11	12	91	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	12	10	5	ABOUT ALICE, by Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $14.95.) The New Yorker writer's recollections of his deceased wife.		 	 	 	13	15	2	SUPREME CONFLICT, by Jan Crawford Greenburg. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) The ABC correspondent argues that President Bush has succeeded in moving the Supreme Court decisively to the right.		 	 	 	14		1	DEATH BY BLACK HOLE, by Neil deGrasse Tyson. (Norton, $24.95.) A collection of essays about the evolution of the universe, many of which first appeared in Natural History magazine, by an astrophysicist who directs the Hayden Planetarium.		 	 	 	15	5	2	WHAT A PARTY! by Terry McAuliffe with Steve Kettmann. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The former head of the Democratic National Committee recalls his experience as a fund-raiser.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Feb. 3, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editor's Choice: Other recent books of of particular interestRETURNING TO EARTH, by Jim Harrison. (Grove, $24.) The beloved 45-year-old hero of Harrison's novel led a good life and dies with regal dignity. Now his survivors must learn to negotiate the hole left by his departure. SELECTED POEMS, by James Fenton. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $14.) Fenton's jaunty rhythms conceal a deep unease.FRUIT OF THE LEMON, by Andrea Levy. (Picador, paper, $15.) A novel of a black Londoner's disillusionment with Thatcher-era Britain.WISH I COULD BE THERE: Notes From a Phobic Life, by Allen Shawn. (Viking, $24.95.) A son of the New Yorker editor William Shawn looks to his early life for the roots of his many phobias.MUGGLENET.COM'S WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN HARRY POTTER 7, by Ben Schoen, Emerson Spartz, Andy Gordon, Gretchen Stull and Jamie Lawrence. (Ulysses Press, $13.95; ages 8 and up.) Predictions from the experts.THE UNBINDING, by Walter Kirn. (Anchor, paper, $13.95.) The first version of this novel, about a cat-and-mouse game of domestic espionage, appeared online, with a complement of hyperlinks.UNION 1812: The Americans Who Fought the Second War of Independence, by A. J. Langguth. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Our second major war.ACE OF SPADES: A Memoir, by David Matthews. (Holt, $24.) Matthews examines the zigzags in his path between black and white identities.LOSE YOUR MOTHER: A Journey Along the Atlantic Slave Route, by Saidiya Hartman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) An imaginative attempt ''to fill in the blank spaces'' of slavery.MISTRESS OF THE ART OF DEATH, by Ariana Franklin (Putnam, $25.95.) Henry II of England, a ''doctor to the dead'' and human cruelty propel Franklin's vibrant medieval crime novel.MOSES: When Harriet Tubman Led Her People to Freedom, by Carole Boston Weatherford. Illustrated by Kadir Nelson. (Jump at the Sun/Hyperion Books for Children, $15.99; ages 5 to 8.) A fictional account, in three voices. The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (66%); ARMIES (65%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (65%); POLICE FORCES (64%); BOOKSTORES (58%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: MITCH ALBOM (57%); JAMES PATTERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); URUGUAY (79%); ISRAEL (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



364 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Made in China

BYLINE: By JAGDISH BHAGWATI. 
Jagdish Bhagwati, university professor of economics and law at Columbia University and a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is the author of ''In Defense of Globalization.''

 BODY:
THE WRITING ON THE WALL
 Why We Must Embrace China as a Partner
 or Face It as an Enemy.
 By Will Hutton.
 421 pp. Free Press. $28.
It is only 20 years since Japan was getting under the skin of many Americans. They feared that the 21st century would be Japan's, as the 19th had been Britain's and the 20th America's. And just as Great Britain had reacted with a loss of nerve at the rise of Germany and the United States at the end of the 19th century, America near the end of the 20th seemed to be in the grip of what I have called a ''diminished giant syndrome.'' These worries appear astonishing now. For well over a decade Japan has been deeply mired in macroeconomic failure, its feared dominance having dissolved into dreary ordinariness. 
 Is China now poised to turn the 21st century into its century? Or will it, despite its phenomenal nearly two-digit annual growth over the past 15 years, rejoin the human race with a slower economy? Or is it possible that its powerful locomotive will, as Japan's did, shift into reverse gear? 
 Certainly, any number of popular writers believe China will only continue to go up and up, turning into a gigantic power. Some economists, like Richard Freeman and Alan Blinder, agree. Will Hutton, the former economics editor of the left-leaning British newspaper The Guardian, calls this the prevailing view, and in his interesting book ''The Writing on the Wall,'' he seeks to overturn it.
 He is hardly the only one. Nearly all Sinologists have been debating the question of China's future for quite some time, and many of them have raised the likelihood of potholes down the Chinese road.
 Signs of looming difficulties are not hard to find. Standard economic analyses indicate that China is likely to face problems with its exchange-rate policy, its financial sector and the inefficiency of its state-owned enterprises. Hutton certainly knows his economics, and any reader can profit from what he has to say about many of these issues. But his central thesis is that China's main problem is not the inadequacy of its capitalist economics, but the limitations of its Communist politics. 
 Indeed, it's true, as Hutton shows in great detail, that China faces a number of critical economic difficulties that are directly traceable to its lack of democracy. He mentions the Sinologist Elizabeth Economy, for example, who has documented how indiscriminate environmental destruction is turning the Chinese landscape into a wasteland. Should this damage be factored into the statistics on the Chinese economy, the result could well be to reduce China's estimated growth rate below its current levels. More important, the Chinese experience shows dramatically, as the Russian experience did, that environmental damage is likely to become ever more crippling in the future because there are no democratic institutions like public opposition and a free press to countervail and contain it. 
 Similarly, because China has an authoritarian regime, it cannot fully profit from the information revolution, thus inhibiting the technology that is at the heart of growth today. The PC (personal computer) is incompatible with the C.P. (Communist Party). So India, with its robust and chaotic democracy -- what V. S. Naipaul has called a ''million mutinies'' -- has moved dramatically ahead of China in computer technology. Hutton points out that from 1981 to 1995 China had 537 scientists and engineers doing research and development per one million people while India had only 151, and that China had three times as many personal computers as India and a 4-to-1 lead in Internet usage. Yet by 2001, India was producing one-fourth more software, and exporting most of it. ''So despite massive investment,'' Hutton writes, China ''trailed far behind India.'' He points out, too, that China damages itself by seeking to control and stifle what its citizens can learn and disseminate. ''Yahoo, Microsoft and Google are part of the cultural yeast of globalization,'' he says, ''yet each has been at the receiving end of China's Internet firewall of censorship.''
 And it's not just growth prospects that are handicapped. China's authoritarianism creates political uncertainties that are equally problematic. Democratic governments facilitate orderly change; Communist regimes do not. Marxists may claim to believe in historical determinism, leaving no room for the randomness of events, but they are no less affected by the contingencies of history than anyone else. Asked many years ago by the economist Robert Heilbroner how China would evolve, the Sovietologist Padma Desai answered: It all depends on whether Mao Zedong or Zhou Enlai dies first. 
 What's more, China's authoritarianism is a breeding ground for corruption. As Hutton says, ''The morality of revolution -- that the end justifies the means -- becomes a morality that justifies corruption.'' Consider how the phenomenon of ''takings'' -- commissars and their cronies appropriating land from peasants -- has led to numerous disruptions. In a political system lacking the essential attributes of a functioning democracy, social groups can't turn to a free press to take up their cause, or an independent judiciary to appeal to, or opposition parties to embrace their complaints. Revolts are what they have left. 
 ll of these are problems within China. But the lack of freedom is likely to affect its trade strategy as well. As its flood of exports leads to ever increasing fears of job loss and reduced wages in the United States, there will be a strong temptation on the part of the American government to exploit human rights violations as a way of rolling back Chinese goods. When Japan was the perceived threat, those who feared competition, like the carmakers in Detroit and the chip manufacturers in Silicon Valley, had no convenient basis for their complaints and were forced simply to demonize Japan as a wicked trader. In China's case, the protectionist critics can credibly assail its lack of democracy and human rights abuses. 
 The question, then, is whether, the Chinese Communists will be able to make the necessary accommodations, justifying the optimism of those Sinologists who have been predicting a ''resilient authoritarianism.'' Or will China's leaders dig in their heels, suppressing dissent and opposition and possibly precipitating political and economic chaos? It's anybody's guess; and Hutton is not particularly helpful on this matter. 
 He does think, however, that the West can actively help the Chinese make the wiser choice, and a major part of his book, as his subtitle suggests, is devoted to arguing for engagement rather than confrontation. So he supports China's participation in the World Trade Organization and opposes protectionism. But the question, frankly, is: How does one make an 800-pound gorilla move in the right direction? Offering it Jessica Lange isn't going to make any difference; and kicking it in the rear, a course Hutton rightly counsels against, will not accomplish much either. 
 In the end, no matter what the West does, China is going to make its own choices, the way it did when, after nearly three decades of really bad economics, it turned to reforms under Deng Xiaoping. The giant everyone had expected to rise up in the 1950s continued snoring until the 1980s. Now it has awakened, and all the rest of us can do is watch as it takes its own faltering steps.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Patrick Thomas) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (73%); LITERATURE (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (61%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Jagdish Bhagwati; Will Hutton

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



365 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Fading Grip on American Business

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
WHAT will happen to the American economy if Washington pulls the troops out of Iraq? What will happen if it doesn't? The answer to both of these questions may be, not a heck of a lot. Where the war was once the dominating factor in mainstream economic prognostication, lately it has become little more than a tragic sideshow.
 In the United States, the most direct economic effect of the war is on the federal budget, which has added hundreds of billions of dollars in military and reconstruction spending in the last few years. According to basic economic theory, that extra spending should stimulate the economy by creating new demand for goods and services. 
But the situation isn't that simple. It's possible that money spent on the war could have been used for more productive investments instead -- scientific research, for example. The net effect of the war, in that case, would have been to hinder economic growth. And while military spending might be stimulative, it might also be pushing up interest rates by increasing the government's borrowing, as well as raising the nation's eventual need for taxes to repay those debts.
 If the economic effect of the extra spending has been unclear, there is also no guarantee that military spending would fall if the troops came home. David R. Scruggs, a senior fellow in defense industrial initiatives at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, says the Army is in urgent need of repairs and refitting for its equipment, especially armored vehicles. Those costs will eventually have to be paid.
 ''We've got some historically high rates of inoperable vehicles right now, and battle damage is only part of it,'' Mr. Scruggs said. ''We've underfunded the depots and the industry to fix this stuff. It may seem improbable given the amount of money we've been spending in the last few years, but the money hasn't gone into fixing old stuff. It's gone into fighting the war and buying new stuff. We're not going to have the new stuff for several years, and we need to fix the old stuff so that in the interim, we'll have something.''
 Mr. Scruggs also said that in a comparison with earlier large-scale engagements, the share of spending going into salaries, food and amenities for the troops in Iraq was substantially higher -- and that many of those costs would continue even if the troops came home. The all-volunteer Army, now fighting a prolonged conflict for the first time, is more expensive than a conscripted one, he said; today's force has to compete with other professions to recruit workers, and it's also seeking out highly skilled and highly educated soldiers.
 Aside from its effect on the budget, of course, the war has also had an impact on the price of oil. Before the war began, the direst predictions about its economic costs centered around $100-a-barrel crude. Oil prices have indeed risen, but it is not clear how much the war is responsible -- and, thus, how much those prices would fall if the situation in Iraq changed.
 A series of discrete events have helped to keep prices high. Spikes have come as a reaction to sabotage in the former Soviet Union, to guerrilla warfare in Nigeria, even to domestic legislation on fuel additives. Deeper factors like growth in developing countries and belligerence in Venezuela and Iran have also raised long-term average prices. Because Iraq wasn't selling its full production capacity of oil on international markets before the war, the current shortfall in production hasn't hurt all that much.
 ''If we pull out and we get a more peaceful situation in Iraq, we might get more oil out of the place,'' said Philip K. Verleger Jr., an energy economist based in Aspen, Colo. He added that the only risk of a significant disruption in the oil supply would be if ''the situation in Iran blows up,'' drawing the region into a larger conflict. 
 The story is similar in financial markets. Stock and bond prices respond to oil prices, as well as to worries about budget deficits, long-term security risks and a host of other issues. Lately, however, Iraq hasn't been much of a hot topic.
 Shital Patel, an economist at Morgan Stanley, surveys her bank's analysts to assess the economic climate and challenges in the nation's various industries. ''In reading a lot of people's reports outside of defense, aerospace and energy, I haven't seen too much mention of Iraq,'' she said. ''No one's really mentioned it at all as a risk. We ask how business conditions will be six months out, and no one's commented on Iraq there.''
 Companies were not always so unconcerned, she said. In the March 2003 version of her survey, half of Morgan Stanley's analysts said the war in Iraq -- which had just begun -- was weakening business conditions.
 THE duration of the war has also led to indifference in consumer behavior. Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board, a business group in New York, said consumer confidence in the economy would not be affected much by either an improvement or a worsening of the situation in Iraq. 
 ''Iraq is 'over there,' and 'over there' is outside of our peripheral vision,'' he said. ''It tinges the picture to some extent, but what's happening to jobs, what's happening to income, what's happening to mortgage and credit rates -- those are things which are of far more immediacy to the consumer.'' The war can affect those things, he said, but only ''tangentially and incrementally.''
 One area where a peaceful conclusion to the war in Iraq could make a big difference is the value of the dollar. Currency trading, you could argue, responds to some of the most ephemeral but also all-encompassing national factors.
 ''If President Bush just says that he needs to continue with his program, the market's not going to react to that,'' said Kathy Lien, chief strategist at Dailyfx.com, a subsidiary of Forex Capital Markets, a currency broker in New York. ''However, if we do have a complete troop withdrawal, that would be taken very positively for the U.S. dollar. Internationally, peace in Iraq and peace in general are also positive for the U.S. dollar.'' And that's a comforting thought.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Military spending might not decline once American troops leave Iraq, says David R. Scruggs, a research fellow, because the United States Army has a great need to repair and refit equipment like armored vehicles. (Photo by Al Grillo/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TERRORISM (63%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%) Center for Strategic and International Studies

PERSON: Daniel Altman; David R Scruggs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



366 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2596 words

HEADLINE: For Yale's Money Man, a Higher Calling

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
NEWS of windfalls on Wall Street have become as common and unsurprising as rain: traders collect $50 million bonuses, top hedge fund managers haul in more than $100 million in a single year. In such gilded company, annual compensation of $1.3 million looks paltry. Yet that was how much David F. Swensen took home in 2005 for supervising Yale University's endowment, now worth $20 billion. 
 Mr. Swensen, one of the most well-regarded investors in the country, never appears on lists of the most highly paid money managers. Nor has he made headlines by buying expensive homes in New York or Palm Beach or by frequenting cocktail and charity circuits. But in the competitive, performance-driven world of money managers, Mr. Swensen can boast of an extraordinary record.
During his 21 years as steward of the Yale endowment, Mr. Swensen has generated an annual compound growth rate of 16.3 percent, beating the performance of Harvard's endowment and that of every other major school in the country over the same period, according to data compiled by Yale. Over the years, he has also routinely rebuffed lucrative offers to leave Yale and to cash in on his expertise in a much grander fashion. 
 ''People think working for something other than the most money you could get is an odd concept, but it seems a perfectly natural concept to me,'' says Mr. Swensen, a slender, soft-spoken man who looks and dresses like a high school teacher. ''When I see colleagues of mine leave universities to do essentially the same thing they were doing but to get paid more, I am disappointed because there is a sense of mission,'' in endowment work.
 Amid outsize and often unimaginable paydays for financiers and corporate chieftains, Mr. Swensen's philosophy may be more than simply anachronistic; in an era when many people commonly equate ''successful'' with the size of one's salary, Mr. Swensen runs the risk of being dismissed as a dinosaur. Even so, he is an example of someone who has found a vibrant metier that seems to suit him perfectly, for which he is comfortably -- even handsomely -- paid, and from which he has absolutely no desire to leave.
 ''People like David who run endowments are already managing a business where their skills could be immediately transferred to the for-profit sphere at multiples of what they earn,'' says Bruce Greenwald, a finance professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business.
 Multiples, indeed. Mr. Swensen's preference for his work at Yale means that he has given up at least tens of millions -- if not hundreds of millions -- of dollars in personal compensation over the last decade alone. But the 53-year-old economist, who has spent most of his adult career at Yale, said in an interview in the endowment's nondescript campus office that he plans to stay at the university ''as long as they are willing to have me.''
 Yale has every reason to want him to stay. After joining the university's investment office when he was just 31, Mr. Swensen moved Yale's portfolio away from a strict menu of stocks and bonds, favoring instead more diverse instruments like hedge funds, commodities like oil and timber, and private company investments.
 That strategy revolutionized endowment investing, and other schools have followed suit. Mr. Swensen's track record and his growing cachet have helped Yale attract donors who believe that their gifts to the university will be well deployed. Although his two books, ''Pioneering Portfolio Management'' and the more recent ''Unconventional Success,'' have helped raise his profile as an investment guru, he remains ambivalent about promoting himself. He notes that there are thousands of university professors who have also forgone more lucrative careers to put their skills to work in the academic world. 
 Two years ago, Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, brandished a chart at a party celebrating Mr. Swensen's 20th anniversary at Yale; during those two decades, the university's endowment had grown to $14 billion from $1.3 billion. The chart showed a list of those who had made the most significant financial contributions to Yale, and included names like Harkness, Beinecke and Mellon. The name at the top of the list, however, was Swensen, with a $7.8 billion contribution -- Yale's calculation of the amount by which Mr. Swensen had outperformed average university endowments during his tenure.
 ''Yale is the bellwether and the benchmark against which every endowment measures itself,'' said J. Ezra Merkin, who runs the investment committees for Yeshiva University and the UJA-Federation of New York. 
 A number of high-profile endowment chiefs have recently bolted academia for the more lush pay packages offered by private funds in the for-profit sector. When Jack R. Meyer, who racked up stellar returns as the head of the Harvard endowment, gave up his post in 2005, for example, he and his team easily raised $6 billion for their new hedge fund. But Mr. Swensen says he has no desire to do something similar. 
 ''I just had an e-mail from a friend who manages money for a wealthy family,'' he said in an interview in the endowment's plain campus office. ''He was troubled by it: making wealthy people wealthier. I feel privileged to be in a place where the resources that we generate are applied to the world's problems.''
 He adds: ''On one level you could always imagine some greater creature comfort or having more toys or more houses. That would be nice. But it certainly does not drive me.''
 While Mr. Swensen has no say about how Yale spends the proceeds from its endowment, he is eager to note the beneficiaries. ''One of the things that I care most deeply about is that notion that anyone who qualifies for admission can afford to go to Yale, and financial aid is a huge part of what the endowment does,'' he says.
 But some people think that he exaggerates the virtues of managing money for a nonprofit versus investing on behalf of private interests. 
 ''If you are making money for the parents and in turn for their kids, why is that any less admirable than making it for Yale University?'' asks Alan Reynolds, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group. ''For all you know the guy you are running money for is giving it all away. The presumption that it is all going into a lavish lifestyle is just a presumption.'' 
 Mr. Swensen bristles at that observation. ''I think it is extraordinarily different,'' he says. ''There is a clear link between the resources we generate here and doing research and providing financial assistance. 
 ''Public service was something that always interested me when I was growing up,'' he adds. ''I thought that nothing would be better than to be a United States senator from Wisconsin. I could not imagine a higher calling.'' 
 Mr. Swensen grew up in River Falls, Wis., where his father and grandfather were chemistry professors at the University of Wisconsin-River Falls. His mother, Grace, became a Lutheran minister after raising six children. His brother Stephen is a doctor at the Mayo Clinic, and one of his three sisters is also a minister. 
 His family's pursuit of callings found its way into Mr. Swensen's own thinking as well. ''When I see colleagues of mine leave universities to do essentially the same thing they were doing but to get paid more, I am disappointed because there is a sense of mission,'' he says.
 That sense of mission has rubbed off on his apprentices at Yale, with the result that some major nonprofit organizations in the United States are now run by men and women who once worked for him: Seth Alexander at M.I.T., Andrew K. Golden at Princeton, D. Ellen Shuman at the Carnegie Corporation, Donna Dean at the Rockefeller Foundation and Paula Volent at Bowdoin College. 
 ''He has this love of investments that is contagious,'' says Ms. Volent, who spent four years at Yale's investment office and now runs the investment committee at Bowdoin. ''He taught us that we were in the business of making money for financial aid for students. If there was a dip in grants and you had a good endowment, you could continue on.'' 
 After earning an undergraduate degree in economics at the River Falls campus, Mr. Swensen headed to Yale, where he received a doctorate in economics. His decision to head east surprised his family. To the Swensens, ''it was as if there was something out there beyond Lake Wobegon, and David was conquering that frontier for us,'' his brother Steven recalled.
 At Yale, he also became close to James Tobin, a Nobel laureate in economics who believed that investment volatility was best reduced by diversifying across a far wider range of asset choices than only stocks and bonds. 
 Mr. Swensen then worked briefly on Wall Street, at Lehman Brothers and Salomon Brothers, an experience he describes as ''intellectually fabulous but ultimately unsatisfying.''
 ''In the finance world it is very easy to measure winning and losing in dollars and cents,'' he says. ''That has always seemed to be an inadequate measure. The quality of life is a better way to measure winning and losing. Money is only one element of that.''
 In 1985, Yale recruited Mr. Swensen to manage its endowment. ''I took an 80 percent pay cut,'' he recalls. ''I was married, without kids. I was worried that I would miss the money, but then I didn't. So I worried over nothing.'' 
 Today, Mr. Swensen, now a divorced father of three, rides herd on about 100 money managers whom he entrusts with Yale's money. Some of them say he is unyielding in seeking the best deals for Yale. One manager described him fondly as a real ''stiff-backed Midwesterner.''
 But within the clubby money management world, a Yale investment is akin to a seal of approval, and managers avidly court Mr. Swensen. They describe him as a thorough researcher who, with his team, scrutinizes his choices intensely before committing money. 
 One of his early investments was with Chieftain Capital Management, a firm run by Glenn Greenberg, a Yale graduate who met Mr. Swensen at a Yale fund-raiser. 
 ''After he came to see us, he called up the chief executives at some of our largest holdings and asked them. 'Who really knows your company well?' '' Mr. Greenberg recalls of his first encounter with Mr. Swensen. ''He wanted to know who did the best research. No other investors did research like that.'' 
 When it comes to hedge funds, with their hefty fee structures, Mr. Swensen can be particularly tough. Tom Steyer, a Yale undergraduate, approached Mr. Swensen in 1987 to raise money for Farallon, his diversified hedge fund. ''They turned us down flat,'' Mr. Steyer recalled.
 Like many hedge funds, Farallon charged a 1 percent management fee and took 20 percent of the profits. ''David told us: 'I don't see why we would give you any money. You might shut down after a bad year,' '' Mr. Steyer recalled. 
 It was only after Mr. Steyer swore that he wouldn't shut down -- and that he wouldn't immediately charge Mr. Swensen 20 percent of his profits and other fees -- that Mr. Swensen gave Mr. Steyer some of Yale's money.
 ''If you make money personally by gathering a huge pile of assets, it is great for the management company because they make bigger fees,'' Mr. Swensen says. ''But if the fund goes from $2 billion or $3 billion to $20 billion, they are inevitably going to reduce their ability to generate investment returns. Size is the enemy of performance. What we need is people who define success by generating great investment returns, not by making as much money as they possibly can.''
 Years ago, when Yale considered investing with ESL Partners, the hedge fund run by Edward S. Lampert, Mr. Swensen says Mr. Lampert refused to tell him what stocks ESL owned. An ESL spokesman declined to comment.
 Ms. Swensen says: ''If you are sitting in my position, how can you responsibly give money to a fund that won't tell you what they are invested in? If I went to my investment committee and told them we are invested in this fund but we don't know what the positions are, they should fire me.''
 Yale did not even consider giving money to Steven Cohen, the money manager who takes 50 percent of his hedge fund's profits. Mr. Cohen's $12 billion fund has had a 43 percent average annualized return since 1992, but ''the fees alone are enough to say I don't want a meeting and there are enough people who put together fair deals,'' Mr. Swensen says. A spokesman for Mr. Cohen declined to comment.
 But once he likes an investor, Mr. Swensen tends to hang in, even in tough times. Yale weathered a 13 percent loss one year on funds invested with Water Street Capital, a hedge fund run by Gilchrist Berg. ''I was a little bit shaky but David said to me, 'We really value the relationship and we want to put more money with you,' '' Mr. Berg recalls. 
 Other investors describe Mr. Swensen as an ''extremely rational'' contrarian. ''He tries to think through what is the best opportunity,'' Mr. Greenberg says. ''He doesn't care about being popular. And he is not afraid to go where other people don't.''
 Mr. Swensen considers trying to time the market a ''fool's errand.'' Other managers say that his primary expertise involves spotting growth sectors in the economy and finding the best people to manage Yale's investment in those sectors.
 It is work that he loves. ''You get to choose those investments that are the right fit,'' he says. ''I think Warren Buffett said it: It is like playing baseball when they don't call the balls and strikes. You can wait and wait until it is a pitch you want to hit.''
 Like Mr. Buffett, Mr. Swensen has developed a following. ''In the endowment world, going to see David for advice is like going to the pope,'' says a board member of an Ivy League university who insisted on anonymity because his board does not want him to comment on such matters publicly.
 MR. SWENSEN clearly relishes how tenaciously some money managers court him. ''We get lots and lots of unsolicited please and p-l-e-a-s,'' he says, smiling. He also relishes the quality of people he has been able to recruit to work with him at the Yale endowment. 
 Mr. Swensen says he trolls for apprentices among Yale graduates because they care about the university's mission, and he sometimes finds them in the economics course he teaches.
 ''I love the idea that undergraduates have this opportunity to study whatever they want,'' he says. ''Students will say to me, 'What do I need to take to be attractive to an investment bank?' I say: 'Don't do that. Take great classes that you like.' ''
 Those who have worked with Mr. Swensen say he has successfully blended the notion of pursuing a calling with the raw mechanical discipline needed to be a winning steward of an endowment. 
 ''I think that the success of many of the people who worked there related to this participating in seeing how good decisions were made and what constitutes good due diligence,'' says Ms. Volent at Bowdoin.
 In the end, Mr. Swensen says, successful investing -- in fact, success in any profession -- comes down to doing your job well and loving what you do. 
 What he demands of himself is exactly what he demands of the custodians of Yale's capital: ''People who define success by generating great returns, not by making as much money as they possibly can,'' he says.
 Absolute return (Hedge funds): 23.3Private equity: 16.4Foreign equity: 14.6Domestic equity: 11.6Fixed income: 3.8Cash: 2.5Graph tracks return on investments since 1986.(Source by Yale University)(pg. 9) 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about David F. Swensen, who supervises Yale University's endowment, misidentified the institution where his grandfather was a chemistry professor. It is Wartburg College in Waverly, Iowa, not the University of Wisconsin-River Falls.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Swensen calls his running of the Yale endowment a labor of love. During his tenure, it has achieved an annual compound growth rate of 16.3 percent. (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
David Swensen's sense of mission has rubbed off on his onetime apprentices. From left are Seth Alexander of M.I.T., Andrew K. Golden of Princeton, D. Ellen Shuman of the Carnegie Corporation, Donna Dean of the Rockefeller Foundation and Paula Volent of Bowdoin College.
 David Swensen, a 53-year-old economist, says he plans to stay at Yale ''as long as they are willing to have me.'' (Photo by Alan S. Orling for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Chart: ''A Tour de Force''In the 21 years that David Swensen has managed Yale's endowment, it has earned a 16.3 percent compound growth rate. In seven separate years, return on investments topped 20 percent.ASSET ALLOCATION, 2006Real assets: 27.8%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Finances

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) Yale University

PERSON: David F Swensen; Geraldine Fabrikant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



367 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Slave Empire, As the Sun Set

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

 BODY:
ON March 25, 1807, Britain ended its participation in the slave trade. The move hardly absolved the country of the sin of having shipped millions of Africans to the New World for sale as chattels. But it was nonetheless a rare point of light in one of the darkest chapters of human history, and it set in motion the gradual emancipation of slaves across the Americas.
 Now, two centuries later, the story of how William Wilberforce and a handful of other Quaker activists persuaded a reluctant British Parliament to abolish the slave trade is retold in Michael Apted's new movie, ''Amazing Grace,'' which will be released in the United States on Friday. It is a story of good versus evil in which, after endless setbacks, the world ends up a better place.
Yet the question remains: Can a film on such a weighty topic connect with today's filmgoers? 
 In Britain, where ''Amazing Grace'' is set to open next month, this should be possible: not so much because audiences are used to seeing British actors in whiskers and waistcoats re-enacting historical dramas, but because the British government is using the anniversary to promote high school courses, exhibitions and debates about the slave trade.
 ''You can't go anywhere in Britain without hearing about racism,'' Mr. Apted said. ''I think people are ready for the film.''
 Elsewhere, however, 1807 is less significant. In the United States, for instance, the watershed date in the fight against slavery is of course Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation of 1863. Every country once involved in trafficking, importing or exploiting slaves -- and there were at least a score -- remembers its own moment of moral reawakening. And outside Britain, Wilberforce is hardly a household name.
 Still, the makers of ''Amazing Grace'' say their movie raises broader issues.
 For Steven Knight, the film's British screenwriter, public opinion was for the first time mobilized to press for social reform with the campaign for the abolition of the trans-Atlantic slave trade. In that sense the use of petitions (including one carrying 390,000 signatures), public meetings, books and pamphlets heralded the birth of modern democratic politics. 
 Mr. Apted saw an opportunity to emphasize the importance of politics, then and now. ''I wanted to do a story about the corridors of power,'' he said by telephone from Washington, where he was promoting ''Amazing Grace.'' ''I am trying to shine a light on the value of politics.''
 For its part Bristol Bay Productions, which financed the $28 million production and favors, in its own words, ''uplifting stories,'' is looking to communicate a more urgent message. Coinciding with the movie's release the company, owned by the American billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, has started a campaign called Amazing Change to raise awareness of the continuing existence of slavery around the world.
 ''An estimated 27 million people are living in slavery today,'' the company said in a press statement explaining Amazing Change. ''It's hard to imagine, but there are more people living in slavery than at other times in history.''
 The movie's title is borrowed from the much-loved hymn written by John Newton, himself a former captain of a British slave trader who underwent a religious conversion and who later, as an evangelical minister, became a friend and adviser to Wilberforce.
 Early in the movie the hymn is sung with fervor by Wilberforce (Ioan Gruffudd) in a London club crowded with opponents of his new, and already sputtering, abolitionist campaign. The year is 1787, and the first anti-slave trade bill has just been defeated. A 20-year-long battle begins, and only Wilberforce's Christian faith will keep him going.
 As it happens, Bristol Bay Productions initially wanted a biopic focused on Wilberforce's faith, ''which is why I and a lot of other people didn't want to make it,'' Mr. Apted recalled. ''I wanted to center the whole film on the anti-slave trade debate, and they agreed. To me it is about people who have a moral or religious sense of purpose and yet manage to operate in the world.''
 Mr. Knight (''Dirty Pretty Things''), who was brought into the project by Mr. Apted, said he had a special interest in late-18th-century Britain, a time when London was ''the capital of the world'' but was also being buffeted by unrest provoked first by the American Revolution, then by the French Revolution.
 ''You have to choose your stories,'' he added by telephone from Washington. ''This particular story has an in-built Hollywood ending because, after so many years of campaigning, Wilberforce does win, and someone stands up in Parliament to say he is superior to Napoleon because he is peaceful, not warlike.''
 Inevitably then Wilberforce dominates the movie, but he has many allies, not only the prime minister, William Pitt the Younger (Benedict Cumberbatch), but also fellow members of the so-called Clapham Sect, not least the wild radical Thomas Clarkson (Rufus Sewell). The former slave trader John Newton (Albert Finney) also encourages him, while even the gruff, hard-to-persuade Lord Charles Fox (Michael Gambon) eventually backs him in Parliament.
 At home Wilberforce can also count on the steadfast support of his wife, Barbara Spooner (Romola Garai), who admired his work long before they met and married in 1797.
 Much of the action takes place in country homes, private clubs and the House of Commons. But the reality of the slave trade is represented by Olaudah Equiano (played by the Senegalese singer Youssou N'Dour), a freed slave whose autobiography was a best seller in Britain. In the movie it is thanks to Equiano that Wilberforce has the shocking experience of visiting a slave ship docked in London.
 ''There's a lot of compression, and we had to take some historical characters out,'' Mr. Apted said, ''but it's pretty much all true, certainly in spirit and essence. His courtship, his relationship with Pitt, Newton's influence: all true. It had to be very accurate or else it would have lost its power.''
 The movie ends with the anti-slave-trade act of 1807, but the battle against slavery continued. Britain may have had solid economic reasons for using its navy to disrupt French, Spanish and Portuguese slave ships, but it took the next logical step of emancipating the slaves in its Caribbean colonies in August 1833, one month after Wilberforce's death. It was not until 1888 that Brazil freed its slaves.
 It may seem a bit of a stretch to link ''Amazing Grace'' to today's continuing battle against slavery, but the practice still exists in parts of South America, Africa and China, not to mention in some European cities where prostitutes from Africa and Eastern Europe are trapped in forced unpaid labor.
 And to those who see the Amazing Change campaign by Bristol Bay Productions as just a novel form of movie marketing, Mr. Knight had a sharp response: ''I hope that cynics who watch the film will recognize their fellow cynics.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about ''Amazing Grace,'' a film that chronicles activists' efforts to end British participation in the slave trade in 1807, misidentified the religion of William Wilberforce, one of the activists. He was an evangelical Anglican, not a Quaker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Wilberforce (played by Ioan Gruffudd) presents a petition in Parliament bearing the signatures of 390,000 British citizens opposing slavery in ''Amazing Grace.'' The film recalls an early British exercise in democracy. (Photo by Murray Close/Roadside Attractions and Samuel Goldwyn Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (93%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); PETITIONS (60%) Motion Pictures; Slavery 

PERSON: Alan Riding; Michael Apted

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (50%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



368 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2001 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the Museum of My Stuff

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
THREE years ago Mickey Cartin, one of Connecticut's biggest contemporary art collectors, began feeling dissatisfied. For years he had been a trustee at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, his hometown, and had given money to other museums. But he had grown frustrated with ''the general inefficiencies'' he perceived, from conflicts among trustees to a tendency to make creative decisions by committee. 
 ''It was becoming more and more difficult for me to see how gifts that I was making were being used,'' he said in an interview.
Then one day in 2004, Steven Holmes, the curator for Mr. Cartin's collection, happened upon an empty storefront just down the street from the museum. Three months and a $25,000 renovation later, Mr. Cartin had his own 4,000-square-foot exhibition space, where for a year and a half he mounted shows of work from his own collection, which ranges from coolly contemporary masters like Josef Albers and Agnes Martin to obsessive outsiders like Adolf Wolfli and Joe Coleman. 
 ''I got a big kick out of doing this,'' Mr. Cartin said. ''It got a lot of people in our town talking.'' He has since vacated the space, but he continues to organize shows focused around artists he collects and admires, like a retrospective of Mr. Coleman's work that opened at the Jack Tilton Gallery in New York last September and is now at the Palais de Tokyo in Paris. While he continues to donate money to museums, he wrote in an e-mail message, he is now ''much more inclined'' to support specific projects than the general needs of entire institutions. 
 Mr. Cartin is not alone. In recent years, a growing number of private collectors have been opening all manner of exhibition sites -- from casual warehouse spaces to full-fledged museums -- to show off their holdings and assert their aesthetic views, often subsidized by enviable tax benefits. 
 The trend has been hastened by an enormous flow of disposable income and an insatiable public interest in art (not to mention keeping up with the Joneses). And then there are the practical considerations: given that so many artists are now working on an outsize scale -- room-size installations or attention-demanding video art -- even a mansion doesn't really cut it as an exhibition space. 
 Art-world savants like to point out that the United States has a long history of privately founded institutions, including colossuses like the Frick Collection in New York and the Barnes Foundation in Merion, Pa. But not all are enthralled by the current explosion. 
 ''The growth of these spaces has impacted tremendously upon public institutions,'' said Roland Augustine, president of the Art Dealers Association of America and a New York dealer. Because galleries and artists generally prefer to sell to museums, he explained, a collector who founds one may gain an advantage. 
 It seems highly unlikely that in a century's time big institutions presenting a broad art-historical narrative will be eclipsed by small, idiosyncratic museums focused around a single collector's taste. But for the moment, this new crop of exhibition spaces suggests a power shift within the art world -- one that is leveling the playing field between collectors and museum professionals, driving up art prices and allowing wealthy private citizens an ever greater say in terms of how their gifts will be used.
 Not all of those citizens are forthcoming about their long-term intentions. In September the industrialist Mitchell P. Rales opened the semiprivate Glenstone Museum alongside his home in Potomac, Md., where he shows works by artists including de Kooning, Warhol, Pollock and Matisse in a Gwathmey Siegel building. Though Mr. Rales is believed to have a long-term public institution in mind, he has released virtually no information about his plans, and no one from his organization was willing to speak for attribution about the broad outlines -- something hard to imagine from the director of a new public art institution.
 Early next year the Los Angeles County Museum of Art plans to open a museum-within-a-museum -- a project largely financed and named for the billionaire collector Eli Broad that will integrate art from his vast collection and the holdings of his nonprofit art foundation with the museum's collection in a new building designed by Renzo Piano. The project seems to give a collector extraordinary leverage over a civic institution -- especially in view of Mr. Broad's current refusal to say whether his art will ultimately go to the Los Angeles museum. 
 Also in a class by itself is Crystal Bridges, a new museum of American art for which Alice L. Walton, the Wal-Mart heiress, has been snapping up masterworks. Plans call for it to open in the fall of 2009 in Bentonville, Ark., with the aim of drawing art tourists to the locale where the first Wal-Mart was founded in 1962. Already she has raised the hackles of the museum world's old guard by buying Asher Durand's 1849 ''Kindred Spirits'' for $35 million from the New York Public Library -- a work some felt should stay in New York -- and offering $68 million for Thomas Eakins's ''Gross Clinic,'' owned by Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia. (Local museums eventually outmaneuvered her.)
 Constructing what is, in effect, a museum to one's own taste may strike some as a vainglorious hobby. And those involved allow that seeing your beloved possessions enshrined this way is indeed good for the ego. 
 ''Art collecting becomes an expression of self,'' said Allan Schwartzman, an art adviser who helped create the Rachofsky House in Dallas, a Richard Meier design for the collectors Howard and Cindy Rachofsky; and the Inhotim Center for Contemporary Art, a Shangri-La nestled in a Brazilian forest, for the mining magnate Bernardo Paz. ''It's a form of self-portraiture.'' 
 Or as Marc Glimcher, president of the New York mega-gallery PaceWildenstein, put it, ''It's the world's most expensive MySpace.'' 
 Among the most visible is the Rubell Family Collection, started by Mera and Donald Rubell, prominent Miami collectors of post-1980s art. Frustrated by the inability to see their collection all in one place -- ''We would actually travel to visit our own work in various exhibitions,'' Ms. Rubell said -- they moved it to a former Drug Enforcement Administration warehouse in Miami a decade ago. In 2004 they revamped and expanded their galleries and added a cafe and a Phaidon bookshop. 
 Today their gallery space, open five days a week, is as large as that of the Whitney Museum. And some of the shows have been influential, like last year's ''Poles Apart,'' a show of paintings by young Polish artists that created considerable buzz among curators and collectors.
 Ms. Rubell said the gallery, along with its educational programs and library, is run by a nonprofit foundation whose purpose is to further exhibitions of the collection. The works themselves are owned by the Rubells. ''It gives us a lot of freedom in terms of acquisitions,'' she said. 
 Most collectors who create exhibition spaces are likely to take a similar tack, said Andrew M. Grumet, an associate with the New York law firm Herrick, Feinstein who specializes in tax issues, wealth planning and nonprofits. The collector can write off the foundation's operating costs; if the foundation also owns the collection, any artwork it buys or sells is generally exempt from sales and capital gains taxes. 
 Those who retain private ownership of the artwork, like the Rubells, may still be able to win tax-exempt status if they make a strong case that the foundation does more than just promote the art's market value. Which may be one reason so many of those foundations promote educational and art loan programs. (There are exceptions, like Mr. Cartin, who said he finances his exhibitions with after-tax dollars.)
 The Rubells' example has transformed Miami's art scene. In 1999 Martin Margulies set up a warehouse space to show his holdings of contemporary and vintage photography, video, sculpture and installation work; since then, many of the city's collectors have opened exhibition outlets, including Dennis and Debra Scholl, Ella Cisneros and Rosa de la Cruz. 
 Most recently, the real estate developer Craig Robins, who rotates his collection between his various offices and properties, hired the Madrid-based architects Abalos & Herreros to create a more permanent exhibition site. ''I think it would be a very good exercise for me as a collector to think about the collection in a museum context,'' Mr. Robins said.
 To some, becoming a more public institution might spoil all the fun. Six years ago Carol and Arthur Goldberg founded an appointment-only exhibition space in an old furniture factory in Mount Kisco, N.Y. ''We decided in our final years,'' Mr. Goldberg said, ''that we'd like to see a lot of the art that we've had in storage'' -- art that includes work by Sol LeWitt, Louise Nevelson, Gerhard Richter and Kiki Smith. 
 Each of the Goldbergs' shows has been organized by outside curators. By contrast, Kent and Vicki Logan, who built a 7,500-square-foot private museum next to their house in Vail, Colo., prefer to organize exhibitions on their own. Each year Mr. Logan, who calls the project ''one of my great passions,'' assembles a display drawn from their holdings of Warhol, Ed Ruscha, Jeff Koons, Damien Hirst and others. 
 In many cases, a separate space reassures collectors that their art is cared for in a climate-controlled setting -- one that also allows works to be shown to best advantage. 
 Today these private spaces can also loom as plums for larger museums. The Logans promised their little institution, together with their house and a substantial portion of their collection, to the Denver Art Museum, along with $10 million for the museum's endowment and $5 million to maintain the property. 
 On Feb. 24 the Art Dealers Association plans a panel discussion at the Museum of Modern Art on ''The Museum as Collector,'' and the competition posed by private collectors in today's market will definitely be on the agenda. 
 Tom Eccles, the director of the Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard, who will be the panel's moderator, is now something of an expert on private collectors' spaces, having recently opened a museum at Bard that was financed by the contemporary collector Marieluise Hessel and shows works from her collection.
 In some cases, he says, private collectors have put works out of reach of civic institutions. ''A collector can actually assemble a major survey exhibition -- buy all the works in a way that no museum could do,'' he said. But the bigger issue for museums, he and others contend, is price inflation -- which is easily fanned by collectors who covet works for their museums and can acquire without committee approval. 
 Mr. Eccles observed that today, ''collectors feel they can contribute to the art world just like curators can, and they want to be players.'' For museums, that can be a double-edged sword. 
 ''The old paradigm,'' said Mr. Logan, ''is, 'Give us your money and we'll do what we want with it,' and I don't think that's operative anymore -- the new philanthropy is activist. They'll say, 'I'm going to have a say in what the objectives are.' ''
 For today's museum directors, courting donors therefore involves a more delicate dance. ''A kind of entrepreneurial side of some philanthropy has emerged, I think because of the nature of how a number of people have made their fortunes,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art. 
 Michael Govan, who took over last year as director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, agrees. ''You'll find a lot of people who don't even want to use the word philanthropy,'' he said. ''They want to use a word like 'investment.' ''
 In the meantime, Mr. Lowry said, ''It's a fascinating moment.'' In general, ''I think it's incumbent upon the institution to demonstrate its capacity to meet expectations.''
 He added, ''But I also think a gift is a gift.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Kent and Vicki Logan at their private museum in Vail, Colo. Above, the Rubell Family Collection in Miami. Left, Mera and Donald Rubell. Their gallery space, open five days a week, is as large as that of the Whitney Museum and has been the site of influential shows. (Photo by Kevin Molony for The New York Times)
(Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
(Photo by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)
 Marieluise Hessel with Tom Eccles, director of Bard College's Center for Curatorial Studies. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TRENDS (74%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%) Art; Collectors and Collections

PERSON: Carol Kino

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



369 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER BOOKING ROOMS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Whether to Ask the Hotel or Hit the Web

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
WITH more hotels guaranteeing equal or better prices to travelers who book with them directly, online travel agency Web sites like Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity aren't always the bargain bins they once were for hotel rates. In response, the agency sites are forced to concentrate on other ways to keep and attract customers. 
 ''It used to be that you would book through an online agency because of the savings,'' which for one night ''could have been upward of $30,'' said Lorraine Sileo, an analyst at PhoCusWright, an online travel consulting and research company. 
The cheaper rates often came with stricter cancellation policies and requirements for full payment when booking. Travelers accepted those conditions because the savings were significant. 
 ''That was yesteryear,'' Ms. Sileo said. During the travel slump after the Sept. 11 attacks, hotels were eager to work with discount and travel agency sites to fill rooms. But now that the economy is stronger, the hotel companies have been working to cut out the middleman.
 If a customer who reserves with Hilton finds a lower rate for the same stay at another Web site in the next 24 hours, for example, Hilton will match the rate and throw in either a $50 American Express gift check or a $50 discount. Marriott and Starwood Hotels also offer rate guarantees. 
 As another incentive for direct booking, major hotel chains have largely stopped offering loyalty program rewards to guests who reserve rooms at negotiated discounts from the online travel agencies. 
 The efforts have been working. In 2004, half the $14.5 billion in online hotel bookings with hotel companies based in the United States were made through online travel agencies, and half were made directly with hotel sites, according to PhoCusWright. Last year, 55 percent of the estimated $23.5 billion in online hotel bookings were made directly, with hotels cutting the online agencies' share to 45 percent. 
 ''Many people are searching online travel agency sites,'' Ms. Sileo said, and then moving on to the hotel sites to make their reservations ''because they are either getting the same rate or a more flexible cancellation or change policy.'' 
 Rick Leonard, a fund-raising executive from Los Angeles, is one of many travelers who book directly with hotels. But to make sure he's getting the best price, he still searches online travel sites before contacting a hotel. This way, if he is quoted a higher rate, he can say he saw a lower one on the Web. He calls this ''keeping them honest.'' 
 He favors dealing with the hotels directly, he said, because requests for particular types of rooms are more likely to be honored and, if there is a problem of any kind, being in direct communication with the hotel ''just makes the chain of responsibility that much clearer.'' 
 Online travel agencies are finding various ways to fight back. Travelocity introduced its own price guarantee last year. A customer who finds a lower rate on an identical reservation within 24 hours of booking can get a refund of the difference and $50 off a future travel purchase. The company also started a loyalty program in October that lets customers with five or more bookings in a 12-month period redeem points for discounts. 
 Expedia offers a similar price guarantee and loyalty program. 
 The online travel agencies have also begun to focus on discount packages combining flights, hotels and rental cars in various ways. And they are trying to set themselves apart with new customer services. 
 Orbitz, for example, introduced a hotel notification service in December for travelers who book flight and hotel packages through its Web site. If flights are delayed, Orbitz will call customers and, with their permission, alert their hotels that they will be arriving late. If a flight is canceled, Orbitz will also rebook customers at new hotels. 
 So what's the best place for a traveler to book online? It depends on what matters to you most. 
 If you want points or preferential treatment, book directly with the hotel. Most major chains deny loyalty rewards to guests who book negotiated rates from online travel agency or discount sites. And even if your hotel doesn't have a points program, it's best to book directly if you want to establish yourself as a repeat customer, worthy of favors and extra perks. 
 ''We always recognize customers that are coming back with a small amenity in the room -- maybe a bottle of wine or bottle of Champagne -- or sometimes an upgrade,'' said Jyrki Auvinen, front office manager at the Hotel of South Beach in Miami, which keeps detailed records of guests' preferences. But because ''the information transmitted from a third-party vendor is less than we received from a guest,'' he said, customers who book through Web sites other than the hotel's are typically viewed as first-time guests. 
 Marriott, which keeps files on requests that guests have made for everything from extra towels to foam pillows, said those preferences might not be automatically honored if a traveler booked through a site other than its own. ''When they book on another site,'' John Wolf, a Marriott spokesman, said in an e-mail message, ''only the details absolutely necessary to facilitate the transaction'' are shared. 
 If price is your main concern, it pays to shop around. Travel agency sites offer quick comparisons across hotel chains. And they tend to offer good bargains on independent hotels, which may not have the resources to offer real-time online booking themselves, said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research. 
 If your trip requires more than just a hotel stay, travel agency Web sites can often offer savings through packages that include flights or car rentals. But the online agencies are not ideal for customers who are tied to particular hotel brands. 
 ''If you'll only stay at St. Regis hotels, for instance,'' said Michelle Peluso, chief executive of Travelocity, ''you're probably better off going to their site.'' She said people go to Travelocity because of its breadth of offerings like package deals, a variety of hotels and customer reviews of hotels. 
 But you can still use a travel agency site to get a better rate from the hotel directly. If a call comes in from a guest who found a better rate on another site, said Mr. Auvinen of the Hotel of South Beach, any hotel is likely to match it. 
 ''It's just common sense,'' he said. ''I have yet to meet a hotel general manager that would say, 'Don't match the rate.' ''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Andy Rash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOYALTY MARKETING (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AIRLINES (69%); FUNDRAISING (65%) Hotels and Motels; Reservations (Airlines, Hotels, Etc); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: Michelle Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



370 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 4857 words

HEADLINE: Hip-Hop Outlaw (Industry Version)

BYLINE: By Samantha M. Shapiro. 
Samantha M. Shapiro is a contributing writer.

 BODY:
Late in the afternoon of Jan. 16, a SWAT team from the Fulton County Sheriff's Office, backed up by officers from the Clayton County Sheriff's Office and the local police department, along with a few drug-sniffing dogs, burst into a unmarked recording studio on a short, quiet street in an industrial neighborhood near the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. The officers entered with their guns drawn; the local police chief said later that they were ''prepared for the worst.'' They had come to serve a warrant for the arrest of the studio's owners on the grounds that they had violated the state's Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, or RICO, a charge often used to lock up people who make a business of selling drugs or breaking people's arms to extort money. The officers confiscated recording equipment, cars, computers and bank statements along with more than 25,000 music CDs. Two of the three owners of the studio, Tyree Simmons, who is 28, and Donald Cannon, who is 27, were arrested and held overnight in the Fulton County jail. Eight employees, mostly interns from local colleges, were briefly detained as well. 
Later that night, a reporter for the local Fox TV station, Stacey Elgin, delivered a report on the raid from the darkened street in front of the studio. She announced that the owners of the studio, known professionally as DJ Drama and DJ Don Cannon, were arrested for making ''illegal CDs.'' The report cut to an interview with Matthew Kilgo, an official with the Recording Industry Association of America, who was involved in the raid. The R.I.A.A., a trade and lobbying group that represents the major American record labels, works closely with the Department of Justice and local police departments to crack down on illegal downloading and music piracy, which most record-company executives see as a dire threat to their business. 
 Kilgo works in the R.I.A.A.'s Atlanta office, and in the weeks before the raid, the local police chief said, R.I.A.A. investigators helped the police collect evidence and conduct surveillance at the studio. Kilgo consulted with the R.I.A.A.'s national headquarters in advance of the raid, and after the raid, a team of men wearing R.I.A.A. jackets was responsible for boxing the CDs and carting them to a warehouse for examination. 
 If anyone involved with the raid knew that the men they had arrested were two of the most famous D.J.'s in the country, they didn't let on while the cameras were rolling. For local law enforcement, the raid on Drama and Cannon's studio was no different from a raid they executed in October on an Atlanta factory where a team of illegal immigrants was found making thousands of copies of popular DVDs and CDs to sell on the street. Along with the bootlegged CDs, the police found weapons and a stash of drugs in the factory. (The Fox report on the DJ Drama raid included a shot of a grave-looking police officer saying, ''In this case we didn't find drugs or weapons, but it's not uncommon for us to find other contraband.'')
 But Drama and Cannon's studio was not a bootlegging plant; it was a place where successful new hip-hop CDs were regularly produced and distributed. Drama and Cannon are part of a well-regarded D.J. collective called the Aphilliates. Although their business almost certainly violated federal copyright law, as well as a Georgia state law that requires CDs to be labeled with the name and address of the producers, they were not simply stealing from the major labels; they were part of an alternative distribution system that the mainstream record industry uses to promote and market hip-hop artists. Drama and Cannon have in recent years been paid by the same companies that paid Kilgo to help arrest them. 
 The CDs made in the Aphilliates' studio are called mixtapes -- album-length compilations of 20 or so songs, often connected by a theme; they are produced and mixed by a D.J. and usually ''hosted'' by a rapper, well known or up-and-coming, who peppers the disc with short boasts, shout-outs or promotions for an upcoming album. Some mixtapes are part of an ongoing series -- in the last few years, the Aphilliates have produced 16 numbered installments of ''Gangsta Grillz,'' an award-winning series that focuses on Southern hip-hop; others represent a one-time deal, a quick way for a rapper to respond to an insult or to remind fans he exists between album releases. The CDs are packaged in thin plastic jewel cases with low-quality covers and are sold at flea markets and independent record stores and through online clearinghouses like mixtapekingz.com. A mixtape can consist of remixes of hit songs -- for instance, the Aphilliates offered a CD of classic Michael Jackson songs doctored by a Detroit D.J. Or it can feature a rapper ''freestyling,'' or improvising raps, over the beat from another artist's song; so, on one mixtape, LL Cool J's ''Love You Better'' became 50 Cent's ''After My Cheddar.'' In most cases, the D.J. modifies the original song without acquiring the rights to it, and if he wants to throw in a sample of Ray Charles singing or a line from a Bugs Bunny cartoon, he doesn't worry about copyright. The language on mixtapes is raw and uncensored; rappers sometimes devote a whole CD to insulting another rapper by name. Mixtapes also feature unreleased songs, often ''leaked'' to the D.J. by a record label that wants to test an artist's popularity or build hype for a coming album release. Record labels regularly hire mixtape D.J.'s to produce CDs featuring a specific artist. In many cases, these arrangements are conducted with a wink and a nod rather than with a contract; the label doesn't officially grant the D.J. the right to distribute the artist's songs or formally allow the artist to record work outside of his contract. 
 In December, not long before the bust, I spent a week with DJ Drama and the Aphilliates in Atlanta. The D.J.'s are true celebrities in the city's vibrant hip-hop community. They were seated at the V.I.P. tables at nightclubs and parties and surrounded by fans at strip clubs, which in Atlanta are considered crucial venues for new hip-hop; tracks are often given their first spins while strippers frantically shake their behinds. 
 Although the music that the Aphilliates promote glorifies violence and drug dealing -- one of their trademark Gangsta Grillz sound effects is a few shots fired by a gun with a silencer, followed by the thud of a body dropping -- they did not live a gangster lifestyle. (Drama often rose at 8 a.m. to take his oldest daughter to kindergarten at a private school.) Instead, they seemed to be aspiring young music executives with a long-term business plan who had figured out a faster and more lucrative way to make it big than an internship at a record label. 
 The success of ''Gangsta Grillz'' had secured for the Aphilliates their own radio shows and record contracts, as well as endorsement deals with Pepsi and clothing companies. When I visited, the Aphilliates were working on an ''official'' Gangsta Grillz release, to be distributed by Grand Hustle, part of Atlantic Records; Drama said it would use only licensed songs and cleared samples. In September, the Aphilliates signed a partnership deal with Asylum Records, part of Warner Music Group, to distribute albums that Drama and Cannon would produce.
 DJ Drama knew that aspects of his business were in what he described to me as ''a legal gray area,'' and he was secretive about even the most basic facts of how the Aphilliates ran their business. He allowed that he had ''got rich'' because of his reputation as a mixtape D.J., though he would not even admit to me that he actually sold mixtapes. The line between self-promotion and secrecy was sometimes an awkward one for him to walk, especially as his underground CDs moved further into the mainstream. Several small distributors had begun selling Drama's CDs, repackaged with scannable barcodes, to major retailers like Best Buy.
 One of the CDs confiscated by R.I.A.A. investigators during the Atlanta raid was ''Dedication 2,'' a mixtape that DJ Drama made with Lil Wayne, a New Orleans rapper; it appeared on the Billboard hip-hop and R&B charts and was widely reviewed in the mainstream press. (Kelefa Sanneh of The New York Times chose ''Dedication 2'' as one of the 10 best recordings of 2006.) As the R.I.A.A. agents boxed up Drama's stash of ''Dedication 2,'' the CD continued to sell well at major retailers like Best Buy and FYE (a national chain of record stores) and also at the iTunes Store online. 
 The local Fox report of the bust was posted on the Internet and widely viewed. The spectacle of men who were known to every hip-hop fan as players in the mainstream music industry being arrested with the aid of the enforcement arm of that same industry was so bizarre and unexpected that a handful of conspiracy theories quickly arose to explain what had happened. Some fans speculated on message boards that the D.J.'s must have been running other illegal businesses on the side. There were others who thought that the bust was payback from a small distributor who had recently sued DJ Drama for violating a contract. But most fans simply thought the men were victims of a music industry that didn't understand hip-hop. The day after Drama's arrest, fans circulated on the Internet a stylized image of Drama's face over a caption that said ''Free Drama and Cannon.'' Mixunit.com, the biggest Web distributor of mixtapes, removed its entire stock from the site and posted pictures of Drama and Cannon on its main page with the message, ''Free the D.J.'s.'' A member of the Diplomats, a Harlem hip-hop group, told MTV News that Jan. 16 was ''D-day in hip-hop.'' Some fans said that in protest they'd never buy another label release; a New York City radio D.J. called record labels the ultimate ''snitches.'' 
 Lil Wayne, who made ''Dedication 2'' with Drama, said in an interview that Drama would have to ''play the game fair,'' adding that he thought it was unfortunate that sometimes mixtapes outsell an artist's official label releases, cutting into the artist's royalties. Soon after, Rapmullet.com, one of the most prominent mixtape Web sites, posted an image of Wayne on its home page over the words: ''Is Wayne a traitor? Did he side with the suits? We didn't abandon Drama -- will you? Who's next to jump ship?'' 
 Drama is the public face of the Aphilliates, but he, Cannon and their third partner, DJ Sense (a k a Brandon Douglas, 26) function as a team; all three are the hosts of a weekly radio show broadcast on WHTA, an Atlanta hip-hop and R&B station, and another Gangsta Grillz show on Sirius satellite radio, and they jointly own the Aphilliates Music Group. The men have been friends since they met at college a decade ago, and they have an easy rhythm with one another, like teammates who play pickup basketball every week and can pass or negotiate a pick without making eye contact. All three wear the collective's signature neck chain with a diamond-encrusted pendant in the shape of the letter A.
 Drama, whose mother is a white education professor and whose father is a black civil rights activist, has expressive brown eyes and a closely trimmed beard. He usually wears a baseball cap backward or propped loosely atop his light brown hair, cocked to the side. Although his workday rarely starts before noon, he comes across as a savvy businessman. Most of the time he doesn't say much, but it's clear he is always paying close attention to what is going on around him. When he is in the studio, about to lay down a Gangsta Grillz ''drop'' (a phrase that is repeated throughout a mixtape), or when he has to tell a bouncer that no, he won't stand behind that velvet rope, he rocks back and forth, building his energy, then barks out a torrent of speech, after which he seems to retreat back into himself again. He has a quiet, focused energy that can seem gruff; around Sense and Cannon, though, he gets goofy. 
 Cannon is a huge guy -- 6-foot-6 and 250 pounds -- with a lumbering gait and a sweet, unguarded smile. He sometimes spends 24 hours at a stretch in the studio, hunched over a mixing board and a computer running Pro Tools, taking breaks to play video games. He loves to shop, and he especially likes to visit high-end Atlanta malls to buy Prada cologne and examine the jewelry. His enormous sneaker collection takes up the bulk of his apartment's walk-in closet, as well as the trunk of his Chevy Tahoe S.U.V. and most of a storage space he rents by the month.
 Sense is known as the visionary with the business ideas, the one who operates mostly behind the scenes. He is short and just a little bit nerdy. Once when we were in the studio at WHTA, a D.J. named Mami Chula wandered in while a song was playing. She gave Sense a look, shook her head and mused aloud, ''I just never saw someone with such a small head.'' Sense didn't say anything, just gave her an indignant look. It seemed as if he was accustomed to being teased. 
 The day after the raid, when Drama and Cannon were each released from jail on $100,000 bonds, they drove straight to the WHTA studios, went on the air and promoted their coming label releases. There's a video on YouTube that shows the scene: Drama swaggers into the studio in a white T-shirt and a gray zip-up track-suit jacket, his diamond ''A'' chain swinging across his chest. 
 The D.J.'s on air were known as the Durrty Boyz, and one of them announced that they had an ''exclusive interview to find out what the hell is going on with Gangsta Grillz.'' He asked the accused felons to get close to the microphone. 
 Cannon murmured: ''It's Don Cannon. Holla at me.''
 DJ Sense, who also goes by the name Trendsetter, said: ''Yeah, yeah, you know what it is. The boy T-t-t-t-t-t-trendsetta! Holla at your boy!''
 Drama, who sometimes calls himself ''Mr. Thanksgiving'' because, he says, he ''feeds the whole industry,'' said: ''Thanksgiving is every year, man. It doesn't go nowhere. Do you understand what that means? It's a holiday, it's every year. . . . It's not going nowhere. DJ Drama! I am in full effect.''
 After the Durrty Boyz spun a Ying Yang Twins song, Drama took calls at a rapid clip, and he responded to nearly every question or message of support with a reminder of the Aphilliates' coming Gangsta Grillz release on Atlantic. 
 One female caller, particularly incensed, demanded, ''Can I speak to Drama?''
 ''What's up?'' Drama asked. ''What's good?''
 ''Drama, what happened? . . . I mean, come on now, you went to jail?''
 ''I mean, for a quick minute,'' Drama replied. ''I am home, though.''
 ''Uh-uh! We ain't having that. Don Cannon, Trendsetter, do I need to fight somebody?''
 ''We're gonna need you,'' Drama said. ''We're gonna start a whole campaign. . . . You know the Gangsta Grillz album is coming out, right?''
 ''Oh, for real?''
 In 1996, Sense and Drama, then both freshmen majoring in mass communications, met in Brawley Hall, their dorm at Clark Atlanta University. C.A.U. is part of the country's largest consortium of historically black colleges, directly abutting Morehouse and Spelman. Drama and Sense were both aspiring D.J.'s, and they were both from Philadelphia. After they met, they competed in a local D.J. battle and became friends. The following year they met Cannon, also a D.J. from Philadelphia (''Aphilliates'' combines the Phil of Philadelphia with an A for Atlanta), and the three became inseparable. Each D.J. found his own niche: Sense interned at WHTA, Cannon spun records at college parties and Drama started selling his own mixtapes. Every night in his apartment, Drama made 10 copies of his latest cassette, and the next day he brought them to campus. Between classes, he would set up a cheap yellow boom box on a major promenade at C.A.U. known as the Strip and offer tapes for sale. He also sold tapes at Georgia State, where he would tell customers that the identity of DJ Drama was a mystery. ''I'd tell them I never met Drama, I don't know the guy, I just work for him,'' he told me.
 In his junior year, in 1998, Drama put together a compilation of Southern hip-hop, which was beginning to emerge nationally as a distinct sound and style. Often called dirty South, it was more dance-oriented and melodic and raunchier than hip-hop from either coast. That mixtape, ''Jim Crow Laws,'' sold well, and Drama decided to start a Southern series, which he named Gangsta Grillz. Amateur mistakes were made early on -- ''we actually spelled 'Grillz' with an S,'' Drama recalled -- but the series quickly took off. Through Sense, Drama met a young local rapper named Lil Jon, who had helped invent a frenetic new style of hip-hop known as crunk. Drama asked Lil Jon to be the host of a mixtape, and Jon did a manic series of drops throughout Gangsta Grillz No. 4. It was the first CD that Drama was able to get into stores. 
 Around the time Drama was hitting his stride, a young entrepreneur named Jason Geter was working as a manager for T.I., then a little-known artist from Atlanta's Bankhead housing projects signed to an imprint of Arista. Geter wasn't happy with the label's marketing of T.I.'s first album, so he undertook his own promotions, independently shooting a video and printing up T-shirts. Geter said that he started seeing Drama's mixtapes everywhere -- in barbershops and record stores. (''Drama was the most consistent guy doing mixtapes in Atlanta,'' he told me. ''Some of the other people didn't even have covers for the CDs, but Drama stood out.'') One night Geter called Drama and asked if he could bring T.I. by Drama's home studio to do some drops and freestyles on a mixtape. 
 Drama was ecstatic. ''At that point, no one was really checking for me,'' he told me. ''I hadn't had a call in three months.'' After the impromptu recording session, Geter started giving Drama unreleased T.I. songs and eventually asked him to produce and release a whole CD of T.I.'s work. When T.I.'s mixtape ''Down With the King'' sold well, other managers started taking their artists to Drama's studio. The first mixtape Drama was paid by a label to produce was ''Tha Streetz Iz Watchin,'' which Def Jam's CTE label hired him to make with Young Jeezy in 2004, in order to build up hype for a coming CD. When Jeezy's official release, ''Let's Get It: Thug Motivation 101,'' came out in 2005, bearing a bonus track from the Drama mixtape, it sold two million copies.
 At least once a week last fall, Jason Brown, the 30-year-old promotions director for the Aphilliates, could be found making a circuit of Atlanta with boxes of Drama's new releases stacked in the back of his Chevy Tahoe. The trip often took as long as nine hours. The Thursday I rode with Brown, he was carrying copies of two mixtapes Drama had recently recorded in the studio with Lil Keke and Lil Boosie, who are popular in their home regions -- Louisiana and South Texas, respectively -- but have not yet broken out nationally. Brown drove down the parkways and roads of Atlanta's low-income black suburbs, past a landscape of Waffle Houses, custom rim shops and halal meat stores, stopping in with his wares at flea markets and little mom-and-pop record shops. 
 At around 3 p.m., we pulled into the parking lot of Backstage Records, a small, tidy shop across the street from the Greenbriar Mall, a locale frequently mentioned in hip-hop lyrics. (Ludacris: ''Any charges set against me, chunk it up and stand tall/Next year I'm lookin' into buyin' Greenbriar Mall.'') Brown tucked a stack of CDs under each arm and headed into the store. He greeted the owner, a short broad man in his late 20s named Vic XL.
 ''How many you want?'' Brown asked XL, holding out the Keke and Boosie CDs.
 ''Whoa!'' XL said, excited. ''Boosie is overdue for a mixtape.'' XL told me that Boosie's major-label release, ''Bad Azz,'' on Asylum Records, was not selling well, but, he explained, ''he's a hood artist,'' so that wasn't a big surprise.
 XL inspected both discs and placed his order: ''I'm gonna take five.'' As Brown started to count CDs off his pile, XL looked again at the liner notes and reconsidered: ''No, 10 each.'' 
 A small record store like Backstage rarely orders more than 10 copies of any CD, and Drama's distribution system meets XL's needs better than the mainstream distribution system does. If XL wants just 10 copies of the new Lil Scrappy CD, he can't buy them directly from the label's distributors as chains like Best Buy do. Instead, he has to go through a middleman called a one-stop, which charges XL $10.75 for a CD that retails at Best Buy for $9.99. 
 The economics of mixtapes appeal to XL, and so do their politics; as he sees it, mixtapes undermine the power of major record labels and radio stations. ''Most artists can't afford to get their music on the radio, but an artist has the right to let his fan base hear what he's done,'' XL said. ''Who is the label to dictate how to feed the fan base?''
 Mixtapes have long played an important role in hip-hop. In the late 1970s, before rap music was ever recorded onto vinyl or played on a radio station, people found out about hip-hop acts through live recordings of D.J. sets from block parties or clubs. Those cassette recordings were duplicated by hand and sold on the street or in record stores, and given free to gypsy-cab drivers in the Bronx as promotional tools. Throughout the '80s and '90s, mixtapes remained an important subculture. In the last five years, though, they have risen to a more prominent place in the industry and made the most successful D.J.'s rich. 
 Mixtapes fill a void left by the consolidation of record labels and radio stations. In the mid-1990s, sales of independent hip-hop albums exceeded those from major releases. But those smaller independent labels were bought out by major labels, and in the late '90s, the last major independent distributor collapsed. This left few routes for unknown hip-hop artists to enter the market; it also made the stakes higher for major labels, which wanted a better return on their investment. As Jeff Chang, author of ''Can't Stop Won't Stop,'' a history of hip-hop, told me recently, ''The whole industry shifted to massive economies of scale, and mixtapes are a natural outgrowth and response to that.'' 
 Mixtape D.J.'s came to be seen as the first tier of promotions for hip-hop artists, a stepping stone to radio play. Labels began aiding and abetting mixtape D.J.'s, sending them separate digital tracks of vocals and beats from songs so they could be easily remixed. They also started sending copies of an artist's mixtape out to journalists and reviewers along with the official label release. DJ Chuck T, a mixtape D.J. in South Carolina, told me that when label employees send him tracks to include on his mixtapes, they request a copy of the mixtape so that they can show their bosses the track is ''getting spin from the street.'' He also said record-label promoters want sales figures for his mixtapes so they can chart sales patterns, which they use in marketing their own releases. 
 Mixtape D.J.'s have effectively absorbed many of the functions of an A&R department, the branch of a record label that traditionally discovers and develops new talent. Ron Stewart, a promotions coordinator at Jive Records, a subsidiary of Sony BMG Music, told me he prefers to test new artists out on mixtapes. ''Budget permitting,'' he said, ''we'd do a few mixtapes with a few D.J.'s, because they have different audiences in different regions.'' Labels prefer to use established mixtape D.J.'s like Drama, rather than produce promotional CDs themselves, Stewart said, because ''the best D.J.'s have a better brand than the average label does.'' 
 Although the deals are informal and often secret, labels typically pay a prominent D.J. like Drama $10,000 to $15,000 to produce a mixtape for an artist. The label's representatives, Stewart explained, adopt what amounts to a don't ask, don't tell policy about the D.J.'s plans to sell the work; what the D.J. does with his copy of the master, Stewart said, ''is his own business.'' For successful D.J.'s, mixtape sales can bring considerable revenue. Mixtapes sell for anywhere from $5 to $10 on the street or on a Web site like Mixunit, and overhead is low, since the CDs cost only about 50 cents to manufacture and D.J.'s rarely pay royalties or licensing fees. 
 Although many hip-hop artists view mixtapes as an essential way to build their careers, some are critical of aspects of the system. One editor of a hip-hop magazine, who would comment only anonymously, told me: ''In the aftermath of the raid, talking to artists, the stuff they say when Drama's not around -- there is a little bit of animosity, because he is clearly making money off these artists. They all saw his car being towed off on TV. What was it? A Maserati?''
 Killer Mike, an Atlanta rapper who is signed to Sony and who has been featured on a number of DJ Drama's mixtapes, told me he is not really a ''supporter'' of mixtapes. ''That doesn't mean I don't play mixtapes in my car and listen to other peoples' mixtapes, but as an artist, I feel the amount of rhymes you have to write to put out a mixtape is the same amount you have to for an album,'' he said. ''I'd rather put out albums over my own beats than use other people's beats and have a problem later.''
 Pimp C, a Texas rapper who is half of the popular underground hip-hop duo UGK, has repeatedly refused to participate in a UGK mixtape despite requests by his record label and, he said, from countless mixtape D.J.'s. Pimp C told me that because there is no paper trail, mixtape D.J.'s are able to invent sales figures, and they routinely claim that, after their overhead, they just break even. But based on his experience producing two of his own mixtapes, Pimp C suspects D.J.'s make plenty; they just don't want to give artist a cut. ''Every time I was approached by a mixtape D.J., they tried to sell me the dream there was no money in it, and it was something artists need to do to help their album sales,'' he said. ''But I know how much bread can be made. . . . If you're making money, chop it up with me.'' 
 Before DJ Drama went to jail, no mixtape D.J. had been the target of a major raid; busts had been directed at small retailers, like Mondo Kim's in New York's East Village. Jonathan Lamy, a spokesperson for the R.I.A.A., said the raid on Drama's studio represented no official change in policy and had been undertaken only at the behest of Atlanta law enforcement. But for many in the industry, the focus on a single prominent figure seemed like no accident. ''Arresting them criminally under RICO was firing a warning shot at anyone who has mixtapes,'' said Walter McDonough, a copyright lawyer who has negotiated with the R.I.A.A. on behalf of Jay-Z. 
 Others pointed to the selective nature of the crackdown as evidence that the raid was a deliberate effort -- major retailers like Best Buy were not raided, even though they carry many of the same CDs Drama was arrested for selling. The R.I.A.A. ''would have to know nothing about the industry they are monitoring not to realize this stuff is all over Best Buy and FYE,'' says Eric Steur, the creative director of Creative Commons, a nonprofit that works to develop more flexible copyright arrangements for artists and producers. ''Maybe they leave them alone because the major chains have promotion deals with record labels.'' 
 Ted Cohen, a former executive at EMI Records who now runs a music-consulting business, told me that the raid was typical of the music industry's ''schizophrenic'' approach to promotions; a label's marketing department wants to get its artists' songs in front of as many people as possible, even if it means allowing or ignoring free downloads or unlicensed videos on YouTube. But the business department wants to collect royalties. ''It is a case of the right hand not knowing what the left hand is doing,'' Cohen said.
 Drama's arrest shook up mixtape D.J.'s and promoters across the country. But even in the days immediately following the raid, D.J.'s continued to release tapes -- some with hastily added tracks on which rappers cursed the R.I.A.A. -- and major labels continued to e-mail them new tracks. Some in the industry speculated that things would have to change, that mixtapes would either move further underground or become legitimate licensed products. But no one I spoke with thought the arrest would permanently damage Drama's career. In fact, Julia Beverly, the editor of Ozone, a Southern hip-hop magazine, suggested that it was more likely to improve his image and album sales. ''Really, this takes him to a gangsta level,'' she said. ''It gives him a little something extra. It's messed up, but if someone goes to jail or dies, it elevates his status and just makes him more of a star than he was before. That's the way the entertainment industry works in general. So, having cops at your door with M-16's at your head, and MTV News reporting on the raid, calling you the biggest D.J. in the world? You can't pay for that type of look.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 18 about DJ Drama, who is famous for making so-called mixtapes, which combine music samples from different artists often without permission, misspelled the surname of the creative director of an organization that works with copyrights for artists and producers. He is Eric Steuer, not Steur

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mixmasters: The Aphilliates' inner circle, in their Atlanta studio, from left: Willie the Kid, DJ Drama, Jay Stevenson (the studio engineer), DJ Sense, DJ Don Cannon. (Photographs by Jessica Dimmock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MUSIC (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); ONLINE PIRACY (85%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARREST WARRANTS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); EXTORTION (75%); LOBBYING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DRUG INTERDICTION (72%); DOGS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%) Music; Copyrights; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Music

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) Aphilliates (DJ Collective); Recording Industry Assn of America

PERSON: DJ Cannon; DJ Drama; Samantha M Shapiro

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Atlanta (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



371 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 8062 words

HEADLINE: From 0 to 60 To World Domination

BYLINE: By Jon Gertner. 
Jon Gertner, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the economics of making comedy movies in Hollywood.

 BODY:
1. Here Comes the Tundra
 For most of the January morning, the reporters at the Detroit auto show crisscrossed the COBO convention center like a herd of livestock, moving at least once every hour to feed -- sometimes literally, since Lexus offered fresh fruit. All the world's car companies were unveiling this year's models. Often, the back-to-back corporate announcements required everyone to scurry clear across the exhibit floor to get a seat at the next press conference. It was hard not to lose yourself in the scenery, however, as you passed by a dazzling showroom exhibit of Maseratis, for instance, or encountered some gleaming Infinitis. The event was a place untroubled by thoughts of traffic jams, long commutes or gas prices. It was also a place where C.E.O.'s like Rick Wagoner of General Motors showed off electric cars like the Chevy Volt that cannot yet be produced -- at least until battery technology improves -- but that can nonetheless be driven slowly across a stage toward a cluster of photographers. In this context, it seemed, G.M. was not a company that posted a $10.6 billion loss in 2005, nor was Ford a manufacturer that announced plans last year to shed more than 30,000 employees. There were no overwhelming pension and health-care burdens. 
Shortly after noon that day, in a ballroom just off the convention center's main floor, the crowd was waiting for Toyota to unveil the latest (and largest) version of its new full-size truck, the Tundra. From where I stood, pinned against a back wall in the darkened room, it was getting hard to breathe. At this point I had been following Toyota and the Tundra for months; I visited the company's new Tundra plant in San Antonio, its sales headquarters near Los Angeles, its executive offices in Manhattan and its Camry plant near Lexington, Ky. Apart from some recalls of faulty parts (an unusual and humiliating occurrence for the carmaker), Toyota had seemed as close to a juggernaut as any corporation in existence. 
 By any measure, Toyota's performance last year, in a tepid market for car sales, was so striking, so outsize, that there seem to be few analogs, at least in the manufacturing world. A baseball team that wins 150 out of 162 games? Maybe. By late December, Toyota's global projections for 2007 -- the production of 9.34 million cars and trucks -- indicated that it would soon pass G.M. as the world's largest car company. For auto analysts, one of the more useful measures of consumer appeal is the ''retail turn rate'' -- that is, the number of days a car sits on a dealer's lot before it is turned over to a customer. As of November 2006, according to the Power Information Network, a division of J.D. Power & Associates that tracks such sales data, Toyota's cars in the U.S. (including its Lexus and Scion brands) had an average turn rate of 27 days. BMW was second at 31; Honda was third at 32. Ford was at 82 and G.M. at 83. And Daimler-Chrysler was at 107. The financial markets reflected these contrasts. By year's end, Toyota would record an annual net profit of $11.6 billion, and its market capitalization (the value of all its shares) would reach nearly $240 billion -- greater than that of G.M., Ford, Daimler-Chrysler, Honda and Nissan combined.
 When the Tundra finally arrived onstage in Detroit, Jim Lentz, one of the company's North American executives, told the packed ballroom that this vehicle ''changed everything'' for Toyota. It was researched, designed, engineered and built in America, Lentz pointed out; and it seemed, from his presentation, to be the toughest, brawniest and most iconically masculine pickup truck anywhere, ever. Such boasts were in keeping with the spirit of car-dealership hucksterism at the show. Still, 50 years after coming to the U.S., Toyota views the Tundra, which arrived in American showrooms earlier this month, not only as another big truck but also as the culmination of a half-century of experimentation, failure, resurgence and domination. And as anyone with even a passing familiarity with Toyota's strategic history knows, the company never makes rash moves or false promises.
 Whether Toyota has evolved into the world's most sophisticated modern corporation -- one whose example has challenged the American model of manufacturing and management -- happens to be a common topic of conversation among business analysts these days. ''It's influencing just about every major company in the world, in that they're asking the question: What can we learn from Toyota?'' says Jeff Liker, an engineering professor at the University of Michigan who has written several books on the company. Indeed, what you can learn from Toyota is something that even Bill Gates has pondered publicly. And yet deconstructing Toyota means breaking down a corporation that uses all its resources, and more than 295,000 employees worldwide, to construct things that are not meant to come apart. 2. Kaizen Means Never Being Satisfied
 One of the Toyota executives attending the Tundra's debut was Jim Press. A tall, lean Midwesterner, Press is the president of Toyota Motor North America, making him the company's highest-ranking American. Toyota is governed by a large corporate board, which is made up of top executives in Japan and senior managing directors spread around the globe; Press is one of 49 managing officers of the company just below that level. For most of his career, Press worked on the West Coast, at Toyota's North American sales headquarters in Torrance, Calif. More than half of Toyota's profits now come from the U.S.; its success here, and its success globally, are so closely related as to be indistinguishable. In the view of one longtime Toyota watcher, Press's high standing reflects the fact that, more than any single manager, he delivered the American market to Toyota. His efforts helped make the Camry the best-selling car and the Lexus the most popular luxury brand in the U.S.
 Press, who is 60, never had an ambition to be an auto executive. When I first met him in his Midtown Manhattan office in October, he told me that after college he took a job working for Ford. ''My family was in retail,'' he said, ''and this was a foray into the manufacturing side to kind of learn what goes on in the industry before I went on and became a car dealer.'' In 1970, his boss at Ford moved to Toyota and encouraged him to join up too. At the time, Toyota sold a few Land Cruisers and was known mainly for one car, the Toyota Corona. It seemed like a poor career move. ''When you're young and your head is full of ideas, you don't let facts get in the way,'' Press said. So he took a flier, gave up his company car (a new Ford Thunderbird) and went to work at Toyota. 
 When he started, the Big Three completely controlled car sales in the United States. The only foreign company of any prominence was Volkswagen, and as Press recalled, Toyota's modest sales were lumped with various tiny carmakers as ''Other.'' Still, soon after he arrived, Press realized he liked the company's intimacy: he could meet face to face with top managers and exert some influence over marketing decisions. And he liked Toyota's obsession with customer satisfaction. When he told me about his first trip to Japan, he seemed to be recounting a religious experience. ''As a young person, you are searching for this level of comfort, you don't know what it is, but you're sort of uncomfortable,'' he said. In Japan, as he put it, he found a home, a place where everything from the politeness of the people to the organization of the factories made sense. On that first trip, at a restaurant one evening, he tried a rich corn soup and asked the waitress for the recipe. She checked with the chef, who explained that there was no recipe; it had been handed down from his mother. The next morning, the waitress came to Press's hotel room: she had found a cookbook with a recipe for the soup. Press, apparently, was still her customer. ''That blew me away,'' he said.
 It can be simplistic, and often a distortion, to accept a corporate executive as the personification of a corporation, especially one as large and varied as Toyota. Yet Press serves as an apt representative, and not merely because his career arc mirrors the company's ascendancy. Like Toyota, he expresses himself in private with modesty and care, yet in public his speeches are bold, declarative and effervescent. In his office, he has an informal, relaxed presence and exhibits just a hint of an avuncular stoop; yet he loves to race cars and sometimes swims 5,000 meters a day. Press also has a fluency in the company's arcane systems and history. Toyota is as much a philosophy as a business, a patchwork of traditions, apothegms and precepts that don't translate easily into the American vernacular. Some have proved incisive (''Build quality into processes'') and some opaque (''Open the window. It's a big world out there!''). Toyota's overarching principle, Press told me, is ''to enrich society through the building of cars and trucks.'' This phrase should be cause for skepticism, especially coming from a company so adept at marketing and public relations. I lost count of how many times Toyota executives, during the course of my reporting, repeated it and how often I had to keep from recoiling at its hollow peculiarity. And yet, the catch phrase -- to enrich and serve society -- was not intended, at least originally, to function as a P.R. motto. Historically the idea has meant offering car customers reliability and mobility while investing profits in new plants, technologies and employees. It has also captured an obsessive obligation to build better cars, which reflects the Toyota belief in kaizen, or continuous improvement. Finally, the phrase carries with it the responsibility to plan for the long term -- financially, technically, imaginatively. ''The company thinks in years and decades,'' Michael Robinet, a vice president at CSM Worldwide, a consulting firm that focuses on the global auto industry, told me. ''They don't think in months or quarters.''
 Certainly the most obvious example of Toyota's long view is the Prius hybrid. Press said he believes that every automobile in the U.S. will eventually be a hybrid. I asked how soon. Not in five years, he replied, ''but I think at some point in the not-too-distant future.'' I asked whether Toyota developed and marketed the technology years ahead of the other major automakers because it possessed better technical skills. Press instead framed the issue as a matter of philosophy. Ten years ago, he said, at about the same time the Prius made its debut, Ford rolled out the huge S.U.V. franchise. ''Both of us had the same tea leaves, the same research,'' he said. ''One of us bet on hybrid, one of us bet on big S.U.V.'s.'' In his view, the wisdom of making big S.U.V.'s -- Press left unacknowledged that Toyota eventually brought out its own line of S.U.V.'s -- seemed dubious: ''First of all, long term, is fuel going to get cheaper or more expensive? Is oil going to become more plentiful or less plentiful? Is the air going to become cleaner or more polluted? And so, do you do something proactive and innovative, to be in tune with where society is going? Or do you hold on to where it has been, and then don't let go, to the bitter end?'' It was never a matter of altruism, he seemed to be saying, but an example of how corporations survive in society. ''What's the right thing to do to sustain the ability to sell more cars and trucks?'' he asked. The Prius was not about a fast return on investment. It was about a slow and long-lasting one.
 The Tundra is hardly green like the Prius, yet it, too, illustrates Toyota's characteristic patience and belief that it should serve every kind of customer. The biggest-selling vehicle in the United States is not the Camry (448,445 sold last year) or the Accord (354,441) but Ford F-Series trucks (796,039). Not far behind in sales are the full-size trucks from Chevrolet. These are among the most lucrative consumer products around, yielding anywhere from $6,000 to $10,000 in profit for every unit sold. ''To the American automakers, that's their bread and butter,'' Jeff Liker, from the University of Michigan, explains. ''They break even on passenger cars, lose money on small cars. But all their profits come from large S.U.V.'s and trucks. For the American auto companies, this is the last hill that they dominate.'' Several auto analysts pointed out to me that G.M. and Ford trucks not only have an extremely loyal customer base; they're also widely regarded as extremely well built and engineered (often in contrast to their passenger cars). When I asked Jim Press how long the company had been thinking about creating a full-size truck, he said it had been a priority dating to the early 1990s, when Toyota failed with its first big truck, the T100. The company failed again in 2000 when its first (and smaller) Tundra came out; only 124,508 units were sold last year.
 Within Toyota, there is a rare and secretive designation for certain development projects known as irei, which is roughly translated as ''not ordinary'' or ''exceptional'' and refers to vehicles that the company will spend any amount on and go to almost any lengths to engineer, market and perfect. In the early 1990s, the Prius had this designation. When it came time several years ago to begin redesigning the new Tundra, it received the classification, too. The success of G.M. and Ford suggested that it was a product that could eventually reap tremendous profits. It was also a vehicle that could conceivably cement Toyota's reputation, once and for all, as an all-American company.3. The Engineers Open the Window on the Big World Out There
 It's often noted that American carmakers are hobbled by their obligations to pay health care ''legacy costs'' to their ranks of retirees. Toyota has only about 1,600 retirees in the U.S., and many of its factories have never been successfully organized by a union. Yet Toyota has other strategic advantages too. For one thing, its enormous cash reserves allow it to spend billions on the pursuit of market share in the U.S. -- designing a new car or significantly redesigning an old one usually costs $1 billion, and building a new plant costs between $1 billion and $2 billion -- and at the same time to think deeply about where society will be in 20 years.
 These two pursuits, which might appear contradictory, actually reinforce each other. ''Toyota has always gone where the money is, and there's money in trucks,'' says John Casesa, an industry consultant and a former automotive analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''This is a company that has, as its mission, to serve any customer. But the other reality is that you've got to make a lot of money to develop the research and development for hybrids.'' Toyota spends $20 million a day, Jim Press told me, on research and factories. ''They are outspending G.M. in R.&D., product development and capital spending,'' says Sean McAlinden, an economist at the Center for Automotive Research, a not-for-profit consulting firm in Ann Arbor. ''If that trend continues, we're dead. The problem is, suppose we made a car'' as good as a Toyota. ''Then we only have a car as good as they do. It's not just about catching up, or getting into the game. You've got to get ahead somehow. But how?''
 Toyota itself keeps pushing ahead. Under its system, an engineer appointed to lead a new project has a huge budget and near absolute authority over the project. Toyota's chief engineers consider it their responsibility to begin a design (or a redesign) by going out and seeing for themselves -- the term within Toyota is genchi genbutsu -- what customers want in a car or a truck and how any current versions come up short. This quest can sometimes seem Arthurian, with chief engineers leading lonely and gallant expeditions in an attempt to figure out how to beat the competition. Most extreme, perhaps, was the task Yuji Yokoya set for himself when he was asked to redesign the Sienna minivan. He decided he would drive the Sienna (and other minivans) in every American state, every Canadian province and most of Mexico. Yokoya at one point decided to visit a tiny and remote Canadian town, Rankin Inlet, in Nunavut, near the Arctic Circle. He flew there in a small plane, borrowed a minivan from a Rankin Inlet taxi driver and drove around for a few minutes (there were very few roads). The point of all this to and fro, Jeff Liker says, was to test different vans -- on ice, in wind, on highways and city streets -- and make Toyota's superior. Curiously, even when his three-year, 53,000-mile journey was finished, Yokoya could not stop. One person at Toyota told me he bumped into him at a hotel in the middle of Death Valley, Calif., after the new Sienna came out in 2004. Apparently, Yokoya wanted to see how his redesigned van was handling in the desert.
 When I spoke not long ago with the Tundra's chief engineer, Yuichiro Obu, and its project manager, Mark Schrage, both of whom work in Ann Arbor, they characterized their research for the Tundra as quite unlike what was done for the Sienna. For starters, designing a full-size pickup truck for the American worker is more complex than designing a van for a soccer mom. The way a farmer uses a truck is different from the way a construction worker does; preferences in Texas (for two-wheel drive) differ from those in Montana (for four-wheel drive). Truck drivers have diverse needs in terms of horsepower and torque, since they carry different payloads on different terrain. They also have variable needs when it comes to cab size (seating between two and five people) and fuel economy (depending on the length of a commute). In August 2002, Obu and his team began visiting different regions of the U.S.; they went to logging camps, horse farms, factories and construction sites to meet with truck owners. By asking them face to face about their needs, Obu and Schrage sought to understand preferences for towing capacity and power; by silently observing them at work, they learned things about the ideal placement of the gear shifter, for instance, or that the door handle and radio knobs should be extra large, because pickup owners often wear work gloves all day. When the team discerned that the pickup has now evolved into a kind of mobile office for many contractors, the engineers sought to create a space for a laptop and hanging files next to the driver. Finally, they made archaeological visits to truck graveyards in Michigan, where they poked around the rusting hulks of pickups and saw what parts had lasted. With so many retired trucks in one place, they also gained a better sense of how trucks had evolved over the past 30 years -- becoming larger, more varied, more luxurious -- and where they might go next.
 Obu's team, which drew on hundreds of engineers, ultimately produced a pickup model with 31 variations that include engines, wheelbases and cabs of different sizes. Design engineers, however, cannot simply create the best truck they can; they need to create the best truck that can be built in a big factory. In other words, Tundra's design engineers had to confer with Tundra's manufacturing engineers at every step of the way to create a truck -- or 31 trucks, really -- that could be assembled efficiently and systematically. To that end, Toyota spent $1.28 billion to build its San Antonio plant; it has the capacity to produce about 200,000 vehicles a year. The company considers it one of the most advanced manufacturing plants in the world.
 I visited San Antonio in late November, after the factory had just begun operating. Management theorists who study Toyota's production system tend to say that it is difficult to replicate, insofar as the company's methods are not simply a series of techniques but a way of thinking about teamwork, products and efficiency. Still, some aspects of the system were clearly visible in San Antonio. In the Tundra plant, there is no real inventory of parts, which is a hallmark of Toyota's approach. Once a truck chassis begins its run on the factory line, an order goes out to, say, an on-site parts supplier that provides seats for the interior. At Avanzar, an independent company located in a large workroom adjacent to the assembly line, I watched workers build a car seat from scratch. They chose a raw steel frame with springs, put it on their own minifactory assembly line to add padding, then leather, and then they transferred it (via pulley, over a partition wall) to the Tundra assembly line, where it was installed in the truck. If the front seat had not been ordered 85 minutes earlier, it would not exist.
 The idea of actually situating a parts supplier inside an assembly plant is wholly novel. But the methods of low inventory -- or what's known as ''just in time'' production -- are hardly unique to Toyota; these have been emulated with great success by other automakers. The same goes for other processes at the San Antonio plant: the line stoppages and quality checks, the time spent by workers discussing hand and body movements in the hope of shaving a crucial half-second from their work. Over the years, Toyota has assisted competitors, especially G.M., in helping to adopt its system, believing it to be in its interest to share practices, especially in exchange for insights into a rival's methods. Toyota's true technological advances, however, are another matter. In San Antonio, for instance, recent innovations in the paint shop that significantly cut production time were considered proprietary and off-limits to journalists.
 It is a challenge to convey the scale of the Camry plant in Georgetown, Ky., which comprises 7.5 million square feet, or the orchestral complexity of its shop floor, where 7,000 workers assemble some 5,000 parts into 2,000 cars a day. I couldn't help wondering if a glitch in the flow of door handles, or a broken welding robot, would put a crimp in the entire enterprise. ''But that's what the Toyota Production System is,'' Gary Convis, the head of the plant, countered. ''You actually create the conditions where things have to work to make it work.'' Convis, like most Toyota engineers, mostly wanted to talk to me about Georgetown's ceaseless drive for improvement. When a plant changes over to a new car design, as Georgetown did for the 2006 Camry, production slows down as parts and systems are updated. The last time Georgetown overhauled the Camry, in 2001, 59 days were needed to fully convert the factory to new-car production; last year, the new model took 16 days. The extra cars probably meant additional revenue of about $100 million.
 Improving efficiency in the factory, though, doesn't necessarily lead to greater profits. Savings on the assembly line can mean a nicer dashboard without making the customer pay more for it. ''If you're efficient in the things the customer doesn't see, then you can put it into the things the customer does see,'' Ron Harbour, a consultant whose company rates the efficiency of auto plants, told me. A result is a car more popular with customers. Success on the assembly line, in this way, begets success in the showroom.4. The Long Road From Rural Japan to California and Beyond
 Over the past few years, in an effort to amass a physical record of its business experience in the United States, Toyota has been tracking down and collecting automobiles it has sold here since the late 1950s. The Toyota USA Automobile Museum, as it's known, is located in an unmarked white-brick building on a side street in Torrance, Calif., a few blocks from Toyota's corporate sales campus. When I visited in early December, I took a leisurely stroll through the museum's main room, a spacious, high-ceilinged garage filled with Toyotas, Lexuses and Scions, all in immaculate condition, all parked aslant on a concrete floor. The museum is open only by appointment; there were no other visitors. Time was compressed into a few strides. I passed a Toyota Corona (1966), a Corolla built in California (the first Toyota made in the U.S., 1986), a Camry from Kentucky (1989), an early Prius (2000) and an early Tundra (2003). To walk along the rows undermines any notion that Toyota's success has been sudden; the progression of cars -- in styling, popularity and increasing Americanization -- was methodical and incremental. ''We don't move in an unpredictable manner,'' Jim Press told me a few weeks before my visit to the museum. ''We move jojo, a Japanese term, meaning step by step.''
 Toyota grew out of an entrepreneurial foray by the Toyoda family -- which made a fortune building textile looms early in the last century -- in the 1930s under the leadership of Kiichiro Toyoda. (That's also when it was decided that the car company would be better served by replacing the family's ''d'' with a ''t,'' in part because it was deemed easier to write and pronounce. The Toyoda loom works did not change its name.) Toyota's success has often been attributed to a Japanese quality of persistence and ingenuity. One of the first Western academics to look deep inside the company, Michael Cusumano, now a professor of management at M.I.T., debunked that notion when he compared Toyota and Nissan in the early 1980s. ''The founders and the managers created and refined Toyota company culture, which is far more powerful than Japanese culture,'' he says. ''It does build on many things that are Japanese -- precision, quality, loyalty. But the Toyota culture dominates.'' Cusumano adds that Toyota's origins, in a rural prefecture, hours from the international influences of Tokyo, provided a beneficial insularity. The company began growing just after World War II, nurtured by government regulations that effectively shut out big American automakers. Still, the devastated postwar economy in Japan necessitated extraordinary resourcefulness: because there was a lack of materials and parts suppliers, for example, Toyota had to create them from scratch. Since the early 1930s, Toyota engineers have looked everywhere for inspiration while tearing apart American products to see how they work. Toyota's systems and worldview derive from an economy of scarcity. In 1950, the company's near-bankruptcy during a difficult year further defined its philosophy of frugality. Toyota soon began to focus obsessively on reducing muda -- or waste -- and building up a vast storehouse of cash for security.
 If history teaches another lesson, it is that Toyota's executives recognized early on that improving the process by which cars are designed and built is just as important as improving the vehicles themselves. In the 1950s and 1960s, this conviction was famously driven by Taiichi Ohno, an engineer who never earned a college degree but who revolutionized modern manufacturing. Ohno was in awe of Henry Ford, but he recognized that the market for cars in postwar Japan -- the market for any modern consumer product, he later posited -- required greater flexibility as much as the traditional means of mass production. For Toyota to compete with American companies, it had to make small batches of many models (think of those 31 Tundras) that could satisfy all kinds of customers. Ohno, who died in 1990, took an anthropomorphic view of raw materials: just as an employee shouldn't wait around without a task, neither should sheet metal or molded plastic. And so, at his factories in Japan, parts were created only in response to demand. Every worker was to focus on improving his efficiency, too (along with that of his co-workers). There was no best way to do something, but there were always better ways. John Paul MacDuffie, a Wharton professor of management, points out that the system was a ''cognitive reframing of what is possible.'' It showed that quality and productivity were not mutually exclusive; Toyota could indeed produce a greater variety of more durable cars more quickly than anyone else. Some of Ohno's and Toyota's ideas also had a deeply subversive quality. It is human nature to cover up a problem rather than call attention to it. At a Toyota plant, the identification of a problem became imperative and exciting. Because then it could be addressed.
 Toyota's production system first gained wide notice in the U.S. in the early 1990s, after the publication of ''The Machine That Changed the World,'' which was written by James P. Womack, Daniel T. Jones and Daniel Roos and serialized in this magazine. According to Womack, whom I visited in his Cambridge office, creating a new product like the iPod or even the Prius is a far more modest achievement than developing a new process. The former are what we normally think of as inventions, of course. But the latter, at least in Toyota's case, presents a novel way of thinking about work and the capabilities of human organizations.
 Womack notes that Toyota's managerial competence has extended well beyond Taiichi Ohno; the company has been fortunate that the Toyoda family's descendants, especially the former chairman Eiji Toyoda, have demonstrated tremendous leadership abilities. ''They got very lucky with genetics,'' Womack says of Toyota. The company also benefited from the savvy of an early sales-and-marketing executive, Shotaro Kamiya. In the 1950s, when Toyota could barely sell its cars to the Japanese public, Kamiya decided Toyota could drive up demand by investing in Japanese driving schools. Kamiya also decided to send three employees to California in the summer of 1957 on a survey mission; a few months later, Toyota set up a small dealership in Hollywood to sell an austere, ugly and underpowered vehicle called the Toyopet Crown -- ''Toyopet is your pet!'' its ads claimed. The car went on sale in 1958 for $1,995; only 288 were sold. That year, the Christmas party, held in the new company's garage in Hollywood, consisted of about 30 people. The custodian's wife cooked the food.
 The first years in the U.S. were in fact a disaster. Toyota sold a few Land Cruisers but eventually withdrew the Toyopet from the market. Meanwhile its engineers in Japan tried to create a passenger car that American customers would actually want. The result was the 1965 Corona, an air-conditioned and modestly priced vehicle. After that, sales grew steadily. A variety of factors helped -- currency differences often made Japanese car imports cheap (for consumers) and profitable (for Toyota). Labor costs in Japan were lower, too. But perhaps the most important factor was timing. A few years after Jim Press began working at Toyota Motor Sales in California, the gas crisis of the early 1970s brought legions of customers to Toyota's more fuel-efficient cars. By the time the company began setting up factories in the U.S. in the mid-1980s (just over half of the Toyota cars sold in North America are now built here), it was gaining respect for the quality as well as the gas economy of its vehicles. Then came the success of Lexus in the early 1990s. ''When they really went at the U.S. market seriously, in the late 1970s and 1980s, the product they brought out was far superior to what the Big Three were producing,'' Ron Harbour, the efficiency expert, says. ''They created this impression and reputation early on. And in the ensuing years, Ford and G.M. have made great strides to make it up. They've narrowed a lot of those gaps. But when you lose that reputation, it's very hard to recover.'' Catching up is even harder, moreover, when Toyota's cars, like those from Honda and BMW, have consistently higher resale values.
 Let's go back in time and say you've got a guy who in 1985 bought a Camry, Harbour says. That Camry buyer was surprised to find he never had to get his car fixed at the dealership. ''That guy never, ever looked back,'' he adds. ''G.M., Ford, Chrysler -- they've basically lost a whole generation of Americans.''
 You might figure that Toyota is elated at the way things have gone lately: its market share in the U.S. has risen in the past couple of years while American automakers like Ford (and to a lesser degree, G.M.) have been in a tailspin. But this assumption is probably only partly correct. ''We want them to be strong,'' Jim Press says, referring to Ford and G.M. ''When you play a ball game, you don't want to win by errors.'' Jim Womack puts it more bluntly: ''The last thing Toyota wants is for any of those guys to collapse.'' For one thing, it could be politically disastrous for the Japanese company if it were considered responsible for the death of a grand American institution. ''But it's also completely worthless to Toyota in the market,'' Womack adds. ''They're selling all the vehicles they can make already. What they actually want is just continuous, slow decline -- decline at the same rate that they have the ability to organically expand. That's the ideal world for them.''5. Toyota Has It Made in America
 McAllen, Tex., is a small city in the state's southernmost tip, which has among the highest numbers of pickup-truck sales in any U.S. market, according to Toyota's research. That made it an ideal location for focus groups and marketing research: What did these people need? What did they think of Toyota? And what would actually get them to drive a Tundra? Toyota ultimately decided to pursue customers it calls ''true truckers.'' True truckers aren't ordinary pickup owners; rather, these men are the Platonic ideal of truck-driving authenticity. They might work on the ranch or the construction site; they might fish for bass every weekend. ''They're the taste makers, the influentials,'' Ernest Bastien, a vice president of vehicle operations, told me in San Antonio. ''I think all consumers are influenced by professionals. The professional uses a certain tool, and then they want it, too.'' What Toyota needed was to find the true truckers, get them behind the wheel of a Tundra and then hope that Obu and Schrage's engineering would take care of the rest. If the true truckers bought it, their followers would, too.
 Toyota expects that some buyers will be moving up from its smaller truck, the Tacoma; others will be trading in their weaker, older Tundra for the new model. Still other buyers may be families that view pickup trucks with big back seats (so-called double cabs) as an alternative to an S.U.V.'s But building a new factory in the U.S. for the truck, locating the plant in the heart of Texas pickup country and then flying the Texas flag outside all speak to the company's focus on severing truck owners' blood ties to Ford and G.M. These loyal owners are the hardest to woo. Indeed, they may be beyond reach. Just as G.M. and Ford may have lost a generation of car buyers, Toyota may have put off a generation of full-size truck buyers with the T100 and the first Tundra.
 The company doesn't think so. In recent years, Toyota has successfully marketed cars like the Prius and brands like the Scion through grass-roots endeavors, which often meant showcasing the Prius to an audience of influentials. With Scion, the company wanted to get the cars in the hands of hipsters who would make them seem desirable and rare to young drivers, a strategy backed by limiting production this year to 150,000 vehicles, even as demand will probably exceed that amount. Some of these techniques seemed appropriate for the Tundra too. ''There are so many of these buyers that probably will feel uncomfortable going into a Toyota dealer because they don't see a Toyota on the construction site and never have and they don't want to be the first one to show up with one,'' Brian Smith, the head of Toyota's truck operations, told me. So for the past year, the company's marketers have tried to ''soften'' resistance to the brand. ''Street teams'' drive Tundras to big construction sites with water in the summer and coffee and doughnuts in the winter. ''We say: 'Hey guys, you ever been in a Toyota before? Just take a moment to sit in it and tell us what you think,' '' Smith says. Already Toyota has sent its street teams on hundreds of runs.
 Toyota focused the marketing of the Tundra on what Smith calls five ''buckets'': 1) fishers and outdoorsmen; 2) home-improvement types; 3) Nascar fans; 4) motorcycle enthusiasts; and 5) country-music lovers. Anyone wondering why Toyota has become a major booster of Nascar or a sponsor of bass-fishing tournaments can see the logic. It's also why Toyota is sponsoring Brooks and Dunn, the country-music duo. And dealers are taking new Tundra trucks to Nascar events, country-music concerts, fishing tournaments and the like. ''Parking lots tend to be a long ways away from where the events are,'' Smith explains, referring to motocross competitions, ''so we have our dealers setting up shuttles.'' The plan is to pull up in a Tundra, offer visitors a ride but have them drive to the event on a slightly indirect course (laid out by a Toyota dealer). ''At the end,'' Smith says, ''we say, 'Thank you, you're guests of Toyota, here's a bottle of water, take a lanyard.' ''
 Based on the company's track record, it's tempting to predict a resounding victory -- if not a quick one, then a slow and steady one. But Toyota is by no means infallible. It failed in the large-truck market in the 1990s, and it faltered in the youth market until it came up with the Scion strategy. Its vehicles are sometimes outranked in Consumer Reports in safety and customer satisfaction by other automakers, especially Honda. The company's growth has sparked tremendous internal concerns about quality-control problems. 
 And Toyota has worries abroad too. Many auto analysts wonder if Toyota has the ability to succeed in emerging markets. ''Toyota is fairly weak in what we see as the second-largest growth market in the world, which we consider India,'' Ashvin Chotai, a London-based auto analyst for Global Insight, told me. In China, the largest growth area, Toyota expects to have 10 percent of the market by 2010, but the company faces intense competition, from both its American and Asian rivals. Jim Press often says that Toyota is not doing as well as the headlines suggest. The trustworthiness of this claim is debatable -- Press also says that G.M. is doing just fine -- but it's undeniable that the company will soon assume leadership in a market that's both global and brutal.
 However the Tundra does in the next few months, the company's history suggests that it never relinquishes a goal before reaching it. And what's striking is that if Toyota succeeds, it won't necessarily be because the company has done anything different this time. Toyota has never really caught the Big Three by surprise. Its marketing strategists have been trying to establish an aura of American authenticity since the early 1970s, when Toyota's TV ads featured four Dallas Cowboys squeezing into a Corolla. When I asked Takahiro Fujimoto, a management professor at the University of Tokyo and a longtime Toyota observer, whether the company's victories -- or the fact that it is now the world's largest automaker -- were hard to envision, he said no: ''Since almost everything that happened to this company in the past several decades has been evolutionary rather than revolutionary, there have been few surprises.''
 Toyota's triumphs are often reduced to spare inventory and just-in-time productivity, but that's too simplistic; there are many factors at work. Among management theorists, success derives from what they call the Toyota Way -- the company's culture of efficiency and problem-solving. Among historians, Toyota's supremacy is a product of happenstance, specifically its early years in the rural precincts of ravaged, postwar Japan. For those in the marketing world, Toyota has triumphed in its packaging of brands like Lexus and Scion. On Wall Street, its success is defined by huge profits and driven by low retiree costs and close relationships with parts suppliers. Toyota's prosperity also owes a large debt to its dealers, the true links to the consumer, who are very good at letting company executives know what customers like and don't like. And to the fact that Toyota does not award huge stock-option grants or bonuses to its executives. Our culture of excessive compensation has never really caught on there.
 All this doesn't make Toyota virtuous. But it does make Toyota different -- in some deep, cellular way -- from many American companies. Nothing in its DNA, to borrow a fashionable term among business-school academics, is focused on short-term gains. What's more, the long view as a business outlook seems to link so many aspects of the company's success. The long view took Toyota to California, and to its most important market, in 1957 and kept it in the United States even after the Toyopet failed miserably. The long view allowed Toyota to understand the need for improvement and the potential rewards of meeting a higher standard. And when it met higher standards, the company looked ahead at the evolution of its American customers, marshaled its resources and tried to figure out what should come next.6. Getting the Carbon Out of Cars
 Toyota's president, Katsuaki Watanabe, who like all of the company's top executives is based in Japan, recently declared that his dream for Toyota is to build a car that does not hurt anyone and cleans the air when it's running. This is not quite as fantastical as it sounds. Several automakers are developing cars with sensors that literally prevent them from crashing (though not from being crashed into). And in the heavy intersections in Tokyo where air quality is poor, Takahiro Fujimoto told me, part of Watanabe's vision is already real: ''The emission gas of some advanced cars is in fact cleaner than the intake air.'' The most vexing challenge, though, is what fuel cars will run on in a future where oil is too scarce or tailpipe emissions too dangerous on account of global warming. About 10 percent of global carbon emissions come from cars, S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks. Many automakers, Toyota included, now trumpet their vehicles as ''clean,'' but this label, while by no means unimportant, refers to engine technology that reduces smog-forming emissions like nitrogen oxides or unburned hydrocarbons. But every gallon of gas burned still produces more than 19 pounds of CO2.
 What I found within Toyota is that its engineers and executives all take environmental issues seriously, but on their own terms. For many consumers, of course, Toyota's hybrid innovations established a green halo over the company. Yet the environmental community is more wary of the company's lauded progressivism than you might expect. Many environmental advocates are dismayed by Toyota's participation (as a member of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers) in a suit to block California's new laws curtailing greenhouse-gas emissions. And some view Toyota's strenuous efforts, especially in the U.S., to sell gas-guzzling trucks and S.U.V.'s as counterproductive. ''I think the reality is that Toyota's focus on the truck market has been to make them look as American as possible, rather than be the global environmental leaders they are on the car side,'' Jason Mark, the former head of the vehicle program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, told me. As Mark sees it, Toyota's activities matter more than any other automaker's. ''First, they'll be the biggest car company very soon,'' he says. ''Second, they've demonstrated a knack for innovation with the Prius. And third, they've demonstrated a commitment for stewardship that I don't think one could attribute to the domestic automakers.''
 When I spoke with John DeCicco, an automotive specialist at Environmental Defense, a New York-based advocacy group, he said that in the near term, at least, it's better not to count on a silver bullet -- a drastic changeover to hydrogen-powered vehicles, for instance. There are many reasons that this will remain a long-term goal. One is that cars, especially ones of good quality, last a long time. Another is that automakers are profit-driven public corporations, and any new technology has to be competitive in the marketplace. To see just how long that can take, consider that Toyota began developing the Prius at a time, 1991, when gas was plentiful and cheap. Today, seven years after its introduction in the U.S., it has less than 1 percent of the car market. Higher gas prices or gas taxes may alter this. But for now, environmental advocates like DeCicco urge carmakers to focus on making modest changes to popular vehicles (making S.U.V.'s lighter, for example, thereby increasing fuel efficiency), which could have a more significant environmental impact than a sophisticated new technology. When DeCicco began analyzing total greenhouse-gas emissions from each car company's American fleet, he noticed that in 2003, for instance, there was a significant change for the better in Toyota's rate. This wasn't because of its hybrids but because of its redesign of the Corolla. ''When you make a small change in efficiency in a high-volume product like that,'' DeCicco told me, ''it can have a bigger net effect in your carbon than a major change in a small-volume seller.''
 Still, more economical cars for the short term cannot solve the long-term problem. Toyota expects to be in business 100 years from now, one person in the company's West Coast office told me, long after oil has been depleted or rendered unusable because of its carbon content, and for that reason it has placed all its bets on hybrid technologies. Indeed, Toyota created its hybrid systems not so much with the current era in mind, but because it views hybrids as more practical and energy-efficient. Whether the future is in biodiesel, ethanol or hydrogen doesn't seem to matter; the hybrid system could be adapted to any of those fuels, says Bill Reinert, Toyota's U.S. engineer in charge of advanced vehicle planning. Reinert also told me that the current Toyota system already has the ability to accommodate the larger battery capacity of a plug-in hybrid, which would use electric power for local trips and fuel only for longer excursions. But those large batteries don't yet exist. Was that extra capacity put there on purpose? ''Hell, yes,'' he says. ''This company is not stupid.'' 
 Reinert adds that every Toyota engineer designing a new car gets an environmental-impact budget as well as a financial one. Designers must consider the total amount of carbon dioxide produced in the design, production and lifetime operation of a new vehicle. This sounds both encouraging and socially responsible. But you have to wonder too if it's really an equation for sustainability. Right now, Reinert says, there are about three-quarters of a billion cars worldwide; by 2050, if market trends continue, ''we could conceivably have 2 billion or even 2.5 billion cars.'' Accommodating those cars will entail building new roads and new factories and spending vast amounts of energy to make shipments. All those activities will create enormous emissions on their own. So even with giant strides in clean-vehicle technology, just doubling the number of vehicles could increase the overall environmental effect by a factor of three.
 To their credit, engineers at Toyota like Reinert do not soft-pedal the immensity of the challenge. And they argue, sometimes convincingly, that Toyota will be a large part of the solution. Jim Press does, too, but his is a different kind of optimism. A few days after the new Tundra made its debut, Press gave a speech to the Society of Automotive Analysts in Detroit in which he seemed confident that this would be Toyota's century. New technologies are on the way, he promised. And the demographics of the American market look good: boomers are buying more cars. Americans are living longer. And the growth rate of the U.S. population is greater than China's. Even in the face of what looks like a difficult year for car sales, the industry is on the verge of a golden era. ''This is one of the few countries on earth where we have more cars per household than drivers,'' he said. ''Isn't that great?''
 At the beginning of his speech, Press joked to the audience that he was about to reveal the secret of Toyota's success. He never really did, except to look ahead with relentlessly bright expectations.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Nathan Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); BASEBALL (70%); PRODUCT RECALLS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; International Trade and World Market; Trucks and Trucking; Automobiles

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; General Motors Corp 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (52%) Jon Gertner; Jim Press

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



372 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-18-07: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Tight Spot

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
My company reimburses me for my parking garage. I found a two-car garage for $300 a month. I bill my company $150 for my half and sublease the other half for $225. I think this is fair, but my mother disagrees, believing that I should charge only my net cost, $75 a month. You? name withheld, Queens 
Reluctant as I am to contradict anyone's mother, here I must. You may honestly bill your company $150, the true cost of your half of the two-car garage. What you do with, and earn from, the other half is beside the point. (Here in Manhattan, the likeliest uses for any available space are nail salon, bank branch or Duane Reade; keep that in mind if your current tenant vacates.)
 Your mother might see this differently if you had two single garages in two separate neighborhoods. Surely she would agree that having one in Brooklyn as a business venture would not affect your boss's obligation to reimburse you for the one in Queens where you park. In your actual situation, the architecture and location differ; the ethical implications do not.
 I resigned from a company where I worked for 15 years. In that time, I received many letters of commendation from clients and co-workers, some addressed to me and others to my boss. May I present these to prospective employers, or would this violate my previous employer's privacy? David Nieves, New York City
 Showing these notes to other people would not harm your boss, an essential ethical concern. Nor would it be illegal, according to the specialist in workplace law I consulted. But if you wish to be overly fastidious, you will share only letters sent to you, not those addressed to the boss.
 You should, of course, omit any that reveal trade secrets or criminality -- ''D.N. did a fine job smuggling those nuclear centrifuges into North Korea using your new proprietary process. . . .'' and that sort of thing. But I infer that there is none of the former and that you would have promptly reported the latter.
 My fiance gave me a conflict-free African diamond engagement ring. Initially, I wanted a Canadian diamond, but Amnesty International and Nelson Mandela advocate supporting the conflict-free African diamond trade. Now I am debating if we should support the diamond industry at all and instead just go for a band. What is the most ethical thing a newly engaged gal can do? Erin MclaChlan, Brooklyn
 Most ethical? If you aspire that high, eschew these costly geegaws entirely and use the money on a nice mink coat -- no, wait, sorry, not a fur. Use the money on a donation to Amnesty International or another worthy organization working to alleviate suffering in Africa.
 But ethics doesn't demand saintliness, just ordinary decency. (I don't condemn your using electricity, although power plants pollute the atmosphere.) In making this decision, you should honor any organized boycott, any meaningful effort at reform. And you might be reasonably guided by respected and sophisticated people and organizations, like Mandela and Amnesty International, which have devoted much thought to a complicated subject.
 UPDATE: With her fiance's approval, McLachlan exchanged her ring for a Canadian diamond and then, on further consideration, swapped back.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ETHICS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (85%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (84%); SMUGGLING (77%); CENTRIFUGES (68%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); FINE JEWELRY (60%); BANK BRANCHES (54%) Ethics; Diamonds; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Parking Garages and Lots; Labor; Privacy; Renting and Leasing ; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: Randy Cohen; Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (77%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



373 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q & A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 432 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:
With British Airways and other European carriers imposing new baggage rules, does this mean that even if you are a frequent flier with elite status, you will only be able to check in one bag if you are flying in economy? -- A. T. Reyes, Hong KongThere are traditionally two sets of rules for checked baggage: the ''piece'' system, allowing one to three bags, with limits on the size and weight of each piece, and the ''weight'' system, allowing any number of items up to a specific total weight, usually depending on the class of travel. Several airlines are adopting the piece system across their networks. 
British Airways has adopted a new, simplified piece policy as of Feb. 13. On flights between Britain and the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Nigeria, Brazil and Mexico, the maximum weight for any one bag is 23 kilograms (51 pounds), with a maximum dimension per bag (height plus width plus length) of 98 by 39 by 31 inches. In economy, the limit is one bag; in business, two bags; and in first class, three bags. The airline says, though, that ''to allow our customers to become familiar with our new bag policy,'' it will allow a weight limit of 32 kilograms (70 pounds) a bag for travel completed by Sept. 30.
 Virgin Atlantic operates a piece system on trans-Atlantic and Nigerian routes, each bag weighing no more than 32 kilograms and with maximum dimensions of 62 inches. Business passengers are allowed three pieces, and economy passengers, two. But on routes to South Africa, Australia, Asia and Dubai, there is a maximum total weight of 30 kilograms (66 pounds) for business-class passengers, and 23 kilograms for premium economy and economy passengers.
 American Airlines allows, on international routes, two pieces of checked baggage, each with a maximum dimension of 62 inches and a weight of 50 pounds. For domestic flights, the limit is two bags, each not exceeding 45 inches total and not weighing more than 50 pounds.
 My advice is to check airline Web sites for baggage rules for both the class and the route you are flying. Many travelers have run into problems with different sets of rules when changing from one airline to another, or from a longer to a shorter flight. Anna Martin, a British Airways spokeswoman in London, says that British Airways Executive Club members, whatever their status, have no special privileges when it comes to baggage allowances. However, airlines may bend the rules, depending on how much a passenger paid and how full the flight. 
 Excess weight is normally charged at 1.5 percent of the highest one-way coach fare. ROGER COLLIS

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Q&A column in the Travel section today about airline baggage allowances misstated the number of bags permitted on British Airlines flights between Britain and the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Nigeria, Brazil and Mexico in economy class. It is two bags, not one.
The Q&A column on Feb. 18 about airline baggage allowances misstated the number of bags permitted on British Airways' flights between Britain and the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Nigeria, Brazil and Mexico. In economy, the limit is two bags, not one bag; in business class it is three bags, not two bags. The column also misstated the maximum size allowed for each bag. Measuring the bag in inches, its height plus its width plus its length cannot exceed a total of 62 inches. The maximum dimensions are not 98 inches in height, 39 inches in width and 31 inches in length (for a total of 168 inches).

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nina Rausch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (89%); AIR FARES (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (71%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



374 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: When the Food Critics Are Deskside

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
BRIAN KUTCHA does not mean to annoy his boss with his eating habits, but he is a struggling actor and worries about his appearance. So he eats five little meals daily to stay slender, nibbling on couscous or chickpeas at his desk. 
 Never mind that his boss, Stephen Viscusi, who runs his own headhunting firm in Manhattan, would prefer that employees not pollute the workplace with lunch. ''Bringing food into the office dynamic makes things too familiar, more like the free-for-alls that might have taken place in your family kitchen growing up,'' Mr. Viscusi said.
He rattled off his food peeves: ''Serial eaters'' like Mr. Kutcha, who loudly chomp through the day. ''Show offs'' who feel they deserve points for lunching at their desks. And people who can't decide what to have and poll the entire office for ideas. 
 These days, more and more employees consume their lunches from the comforts of their cubicles. 
 ''I see it all the time,'' said Joseph Gibbons, the research director of the FutureWork Institute, a consulting firm in Brooklyn that focuses on workplace issues. ''We're used to eating alone and having everything we need right there and being very self-sufficient. That carries over to the workplace.''
 Other reasons people dine ''al desko'' vary, said Robin Jay, author of ''The Art of the Business Lunch.'' They need to high-tail it out of the office at 5 p.m. sharp to pick up the kids. They want to save money, or they are just too stressed to leave. 
 ''The power lunch of the '80s, where people would have three martinis and blast through the afternoon, is dead,'' Ms. Jay said.
 In the last decade, the lunch hour has become a misnomer. A 2005 study conducted by Opinion Research Corporation for Steelcase, an office furniture manufacturer, found that 55 percent of 700 office workers surveyed took 31 minutes for lunch, down from 36 minutes in 1996. 
 But that precious half-hour was not devoted to dining. Instead, workers ran errands, read or made personal calls. Jeanine Holquist, a spokeswoman for Steelcase, said ''we assume they ate at their desks while multitasking.'' 
 Eating at the office has its own stresses. No matter how private you think it is, what you eat -- and how much -- sends telltale signals. People make assumptions about your character, whether you're driven (grilled salmon) or lazy (pepperoni pizza).
 ''Food is a constant topic of conversation at our office,'' said Margaret Wilesmith, the president of Wilesmith Advertising/Design in West Palm Beach, Fla. ''Each individual's identity is somehow defined by his or her food choices.'' 
 A co-worker noticing your third cheeseburger of the week is annoying. But a boss sizing up unhealthy choices carries far more influence. 
 ''In a workplace context, the effect of such judgment is not just social but also potentially economic,'' said Philip N. Cohen, an associate professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who has taught courses on the sociology of food. ''Why would a co-worker or manager trust you with responsibility at work if they see you making bad decisions in your self-management enterprise during meals?'' 
 Gayle A. Brandel, the chief executive of Professionals for NonProfits, a staffing company, said that what her employees eat reflect their diligent work habits. Her vice president begins his day with a cup of oatmeal, Ms. Brandel said, boasting. 
 Mr. Viscusi was more blunt. ''When I'm interviewing someone and I see their bones protruding, I know it's a good hire,'' he said. ''They're extremely disciplined.''
 Ms. Wilesmith welcomes deskside dining because she views it as a sign of dedication to the company. ''If someone goes out to eat here, it's an oddity and almost annoys people because it means you're not available 24/7,'' she said. 
 Lunching in your cubicle isn't necessarily a career booster. ''What's going to make you more money in the long run, a lunch that you spent working and billing $350, or having face time with clients and building a better relationship?'' said Ms. Jay, who often dines out at midday. 
 Eating in isn't always smart nutritionally, either. Dieters can end up sharing barbecue takeout instead of choosing their own fare. 
 ''Small offices or companies can make lunchtime a big deal, where everyone puts in their order, it gets delivered and everyone eats together,'' said Geri Brewster, a dietitian and nutritional consultant for Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. ''It's really easy for some to get caught up in the 'What are we going to order for lunch today' mode.'' 
 Fewer people would eat at their desks if they realized what lurked near their iMacs. Charles Gerba, a microbiologist at the University of Arizona, has swabbed various everyday surfaces for bacteria. A 2006 study conducted by Dr. Gerba, and financed by Clorox, found that the most germ-laden places are telephones, keyboards, computer mice and desktops. 
 Some lunchtime habits are conspicuous no-nos, like hogging the company refrigerator. A colleague of Mr. Kutcha's used to bring a whole chicken on Mondays, microwave it, then nibble on the refrigerated carcass till Friday. ''Clients would come in and it was like, 'Welcome to KFC junior,' '' he said. 
 Lara Dyan, co-host of ChickChat, a syndicated radio program, knows what it is like to be on the receiving end of such wrath. For a dozen years, Ms. Dyan, 37, worked at a telecommunications company where typing through lunch was encouraged. 
 Trouble was, she loved Chinese food, and she was an achingly slow eater. ''I'd get chow fun with everything in it and graze,'' she said. ''Everyone in cubeland would be smelling the MSG.''
 Still, her boss preferred to suffer through her pungent meals rather than have her leave the office for a half-hour. ''He said, 'No, No, don't do that,' '' Ms. Dylan recounted. 
 Things are a little bit different at Food & Wine magazine. One would expect that employees would try to outdo one another with brown-bag lunches of homemade duck terrine or by ordering in from E.A.T. on Madison Avenue. In fact, an editor recently broke ranks and ordered a turkey sandwich from Subway.
 ''It inspired others of us to check it out,'' said Dana Cowin, the editor in chief. ''We thought she discovered something.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: DESK SET -- Margaret Wilesmith (standing) sees dedication in eating in. Top, Brian Kutcha, left, just annoys Stephen Viscusi, his boss. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE DESIGN (89%); OFFICE FURNITURE (89%); OFFICE FURNITURE MFG (87%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); FURNITURE MFG (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%) Labor; Food

COMPANY: OPINION RESEARCH CORP (64%); STEELCASE INC (57%)

TICKER: SCS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (64%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%); NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



375 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Why Let a Lender Pay Your Taxes?

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MOST people keep up well enough with their monthly bills. So why do so many homeowners allow mortgage lenders to pay their real estate tax and insurance bills for them?
 That is the proposition at the core of mortgage escrow services, in which lenders collect money on the borrower's behalf as part of the monthly mortgage payment, then use those funds to pay the borrower's real estate taxes and homeowner's insurance, usually twice a year. Mortgage industry executives say a majority of the nation's borrowers use escrow services, either out of choice or as a requirement.
Government-insured loans like those backed by the Federal Housing Administration or the Veterans Administration mandate escrow accounts for borrowers, generally because they eliminate the risk that a borrower will default on taxes or will fail to insure the house. 
 Borrowers with less than 20 percent equity in their homes must also use escrow accounts, except in California, where the threshold is 10 percent.
 But many people choose the escrow option even when it is not required, and even though paying directly could save money. ''Borrowers tend to select it just because it's a consumer-friendly budgeting vehicle,'' said Michael Gross, the managing director of Countrywide Home Loans, one of the nation's biggest real estate lenders. ''It gives them a few less things to worry about during the year. And in some regions if you're late with your insurance premium even by a few days, carriers can cancel the policy.''
 Mr. Gross said that 61 percent of the company's borrowers use escrow accounts even when they are not required and that this figure has remained steady over the last decade. In some states like New York and Connecticut, lenders are required to pay interest on escrow accounts. 
 So although borrowers do not pay lenders for escrow programs, the service is not always cost free, depending on the prevailing interest rates. ''You're giving up interest or investment returns on the money you give the lender,'' said Eric Tyson, the author of ''Mortgages for Dummies'' (Wiley, 2004).
 In years past, when interest rates on money-market accounts hovered in the 2 percent range, the amount of money lost was negligible. ''But with money-market funds paying some of their highest yields in years, it's pretty easy to get 5 percent on your money right now,'' Mr. Tyson said. ''And you could just set up an escrow account on your own.''
 At current money-market account rates, he said, borrowers who keep $10,000 in an escrow account for a year can earn $500 in interest. ''The only question is whether you're disciplined enough to handle that. If you have trouble budgeting or are likely to raid the account for a vacation, it's probably money well spent to have the lender do it for you.'' 
 A commonly overlooked element of escrow accounts is the reserve function, which allows lenders to impound more than the amount required to cover taxes and insurance. New York bars lenders from collecting such reserves. Vermont caps escrow reserves at 8 percent and Montana at 10 percent. In other states, lenders typically collect an amount that, at year's end, equals one or two months of escrow payments. For some lenders, like Wells Fargo, the reserve is not optional, while others, like Countrywide, allow borrowers to opt out. 
 Lenders say the reserve is meant to ease the pain of steep tax or insurance increases.
 But if the borrower has a sufficient financial cushion to absorb such increases, the $30 or $50 monthly reserve payment may be better off in a money-market account or directed to violin lessons for the children. 
 Those who call their lenders to eliminate their reserve payments may want to keep the telephone numbers handy. Each year, Countrywide (for example) automatically renews the reserve option even if the borrower opted out the previous year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PROPERTY ESCROW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (85%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); VETERANS (54%) Housing; Mortgages; Taxation; Property Taxes; Insurance

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



376 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; GREENTECH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1657 words

HEADLINE: A Civics Lesson With a Multiple-Choice Test

BYLINE: By BOB KNOLL

 BODY:
AMERICANS love choice, as a glimpse at any supermarket's cereal aisle will attest. And with the nation paying more attention to fuel economy and environmental matters, it's only logical that automakers are offering the same basic cars in varieties ranging from big and mean to green and clean.
 But while several companies are selling models with either gas or hybrid powertrains, Honda has taken its Civic compact a step further. In additional to the gas-only and gas-electric versions, Honda offers a Civic that runs on compressed natural gas, a very clean fuel that is easy to refine and transport and generally costs less than gasoline. Furthermore, the nation's natural gas supplies come almost entirely from North America, not from the volatile Middle East.
The Civic GX is the only regular production vehicle in the United States that uses natural gas; it is the cleanest internal-combustion car ever tested by the Environmental Protection Agency. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, an environmental advocacy group known as A.C.E.E.E., gives the GX its highest green score, above the Civic Hybrid and the Toyota Prius. 
 Until last fall, the GX was sold only in California. It is now offered in New York, which is among the states that have adopted California's clean-air rules.
 So the 2007 Civic offers a unique opportunity to compare the performance and economy of cars with distinctly different powertrains that are otherwise much the same. 
 The Civic was redesigned for the 2006 model year, and the line includes other variants, including coupes and the high-performance (but less fuel-efficient) Si. 
 Aside from the 197-horsepower Si, the 2007 sedans deliver either 140 horses, in conventional gasoline form; 110, with the Civic Hybrid; or 113, from the natural gas GX.
 The conventional version has a 1.8-liter 4-cylinder engine with a government mileage rating of 30 miles a gallon in town, 40 on the highway, when paired with an automatic transmission. 
 The natural gas GX, which also has a 1.8-liter 4, carries an E.P.A. gasoline-equivalent rating of 28/39.
 The Hybrid integrates a battery-driven electric motor with a 1.3-liter gas engine. It is rated 49 m.p.g. in town, 51 on the highway. 
 I had an opportunity to drive all three versions back to back to get a sense of their differences and similarities in everyday use in urban and suburban areas of Connecticut. In general, the Civic is a respected compact car that merits a spot on the list of many small-car shoppers. In each of its forms, I found it a good-looking, nimble economical car, certainly one of the best of its breed. And I found that the Civics were quite similar despite their different powertrains.EX: Peppy and Polished
 The conventional Civic that I tested was an EX -- the fanciest trim level, aside from the sporty Si -- with a sticker price of $22,159, including the optional navigation system and XM Satellite Radio. The base DX is $15,605 and the midrange LX is $17,555. 
 Conventional Civic sedans come with a five-speed manual transmission or, for $800 extra, a five-speed automatic. All Civics have side air bags for the front seats, side curtain bags and antilock brakes.
 With its 140-horsepower engine and responsive automatic transmission, my EX test car was agile and fun to drive. Its ride was typical of a sedan this size; so was its noise level and seating comfort. 
 There was plenty of power on tap and the fuel economy was about what I'd expected -- I averaged about 30 m.p.g. without trying too hard. 
 The EX is an ultra-low-emissions vehicle under California rules, and its smog index is 0.39. The average vehicle scores 0.40, so this Civic, while clean, is not exceptionally so.
 Still, the gasoline Civic ranks No. 12 on the A.C.E.E.E.'s list of America's greenest cars. It is nicely finished, relatively powerful and refined. Hybrid: Having It Both Ways
 All Civic Hybrids are equipped like the EX -- very nicely, in other words -- for a starting price of $23,195. The only significant option is a package that includes the navigation system and satellite radio for $1,750.
 The Civic Hybrid currently qualifies for a $2,100 federal income tax credit.
 In contrast to the other Civics, the Hybrid has a continuously variable transmission without fixed gear ratios. Because this type of gearbox has no noticeable shift points, it is very smooth but can convey some odd sensations as the car's speed attempts to match the engine's speed. 
 The variable transmission is more fuel-efficient than a conventional automatic. The Hybrid also has electric power steering, which saves fuel compared with the conventional belt-driven hydraulic power steering in the EX and GX. 
 Having driven most of the hybrid automobiles on the market, I can say that the Civic's system is the most transparent I have come across. The engine shuts down almost imperceptibly when the car is stopped and the brake pedal is depressed, then starts instantly when you lift your foot from the brake pedal. After a bit of experience you don't even notice this starting and stopping.
 While Honda says the car can be propelled by the electric motor alone at speeds up to 35 m.p.h., I was unable -- despite a serious effort -- to get the car to run on the batteries alone at low speeds.
 While the Civic Hybrid responds nicely in city driving, it is not very peppy or responsive at higher speeds, with the variable transmission contributing to its relaxed demeanor. 
 But fuel economy is top notch, and on regular fuel I averaged nearly 47 m.p.g. in mixed driving and often saw 50 m.p.g. or better on the instantaneous mileage readout.
 Under the California system, the Civic Hybrid carries the cleanest emissions rating of any car that uses gasoline: AT-PZEV, for advanced technology partial-zero-emission vehicle.
 The hybrid's battery pack carries an eight-year or 80,000-mile warranty. The Hybrid's rear seatbacks cannot be folded like those in conventional Civics because the batteries are behind the back seat.GX: Cooking With Gas
 A distinct version of the Civic, the GX is equipped pretty much like the Hybrid, though it comes with a five-speed automatic transmission and is not available with a navigation system. It has a sticker price of $25,185, including shipping.
 The GX also qualifies for a $4,000 federal tax credit through December 2010.
 Like the Hybrid, the natural gas Civic does not have the snappy feel of the conventional gasoline model. The lack of power is most noticeable when climbing modest grades at highway speeds when the transmission downshifts several gears in an effort to maintain speed. While this is accomplished smoothly, it still makes the car feel a bit sluggish. 
 The E.P.A. calculates the GX's fuel economy on the basis of what it calls the gasoline gallon equivalent. A full tank of natural gas, pressurized at 3,600 pounds a square inch, is equivalent to eight gallons of gasoline. On that basis, the GX is rated at 28 m.p.g. in the city and 39 on the highway. In my own driving, I averaged a bit over 30 m.p.h., slightly better than I did in the conventional Civic.
 The GX's overall emissions are considerably lower than even the Hybrid's, though it is also rated AT-PZEV. The GX not only emits less smog-causing compounds than a gasoline car, it also produces about 25 percent less of the emissions linked to global warming. 
 The GX's natural gas tank is behind the rear seat, taking up a considerable amount of trunk space (and, like the Hybrid's, eliminating the fold-down rear seat). 
 The tank is rated for a maximum of 3,600 p.s.i., giving the GX a potential travel range of about 260 miles -- though I started getting nervous when the low-fuel light illuminated around mile 200. But some fueling stations are capable of only a 3,000 p.s.i. fill (the equivalent of about six gallons of gasoline), which further reduces the distance the car can go. 
 Filling the tank is much like pumping gasoline, though the GX has a special filler mechanism. Refueling from a pressurized source takes five minutes or less, about the same as filling up with gasoline at a self-serve station.
 So driving a natural gas car would seem to have a lot of advantages and not much downside, right? Unfortunately, there is a major drawback: fueling stations are sparse, particularly outside urban areas.
 Since many natural gas vehicles belong to government or corporate fleets, fueling stations are often run by government agencies and do not cater to public customers.
 Natural gas stations have been opening in California, New York and some other states, and obviously more will be coming as these vehicles become more popular.
 I found the nearest fuel station that would accept credit cards was 42 miles from my house in eastern Connecticut. Unfortunately, this station was charging $3.49 a gallon, considerably more than the going rate in California of $1.85 to $2.25. 
 Given the limited travel range of the GX, a driver must always keep in mind where the stations are, making the GX best suited as a commuter car -- especially if you install a home-fueling device called Phill, which can be purchased or leased through Honda dealers. Only an exceptionally enterprising driver would want to take one on a cross-country trip.
 All three Civic sedans have their merits and each appeals to particular sensibilities. 
 For the best driving experience, the conventional EX is the hands-down winner. 
 Save-the-planet types can take heart in either the Civic Hybrid or GX, since both have emissions as low as anything but an all-electric vehicle.
 The Hybrid uses the least fossil fuel, but it still adds to the coffers of OPEC.
 The natural gas GX is not only the cleanest car sold in America, it contributes to the nation's energy independence by using a domestic fuel in plentiful supply.
 But the GX is simply not available -- yet -- in most of the United States, so the Hybrid may be the best compromise.

GRAPHIC: Photos: GASOLINE: Civic EX.
GAS/ELECTRIC: Civic Hybrid
 NATURAL GAS: Civic GX Chart: ''Civic Sedans a la Carte'' lists features and specifications for selected Civic Sedans. (pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); SEDANS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); SUBURBS (50%) Automobiles; Gas (Fuel); Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR AN ENERGY EFFICIENT ECONOMY (56%)

PERSON: Bob Knoll

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



377 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHELSEA; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Will Good Deeds Count?

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
When a new building is planned for a neighborhood, the battle lines are often drawn over jobs (will new ones be provided?), height (will anyone's view be blocked?) and use (will the basement house a drug rehabilitation program?). 
 In the case of the 15-story brick-and-glass residential tower proposed by the General Theological Seminary for Ninth Avenue near 20th Street, opponents have focused on some of these issues.
They note, for example, that the site falls within the Chelsea Historic District, and that current zoning for the site permits buildings no taller than seven stories. For those reasons the project will need approval by the Landmarks Preservation Commission and the City Planning Commission. 
 Opponents also complain about the prospect of a high-end residential tower in a neighborhood where gentrification is already a hot issue. 
 In an unusual turn for such debates, however, talk has also focused on the values and character of the institution that is building the tower, specifically the seminary's longtime concern for and work on behalf of gay men and lesbians.
 At a stormy meeting of the local community board on Feb. 7, Adam Honigman, a board member in favor of the project, described the seminary as ''the heart and soul of the light that is leading many out of the darkness of hate.'' 
 In addition, professors who teach at the seminary spoke about the 190-year-old institution's support of gay people and its work with the homeless, as well as the Alcoholics Anonymous meetings held on its premises. General Theological was the first Episcopal seminary in America to allow some gay and lesbian couples to live together on campus, and it has long been friendly to gay and lesbian groups, employees and students.
 The seminary's supporters have portrayed the new tower as a life-or-death project that would produce revenue without which the seminary cannot maintain its decaying Gothic buildings or even continue to function. For them, the debate over the tower is essentially a debate about the importance and value of the seminary itself.
 But many community board members who attended the meeting rejected arguments about the seminary's work on behalf of what is known as the L.G.B.T. -- the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender -- community and said the real issue was the plans for the building.
 ''They kept bringing in letters about the great work that they had done in the L.G.B.T. community,'' Tony Simone, a member of the community board, said a week after the meeting, at which the board voted not to support the project. ''No one's arguing with that. We support the seminary's mission. What we don't support is the plan they have to develop this building.'' ALEX MINDLIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the residential tower planned for Ninth Avenue. (Photo by General Theological Seminary) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); ZONING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITIES (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Episcopal Church; Homosexuality; Housing

ORGANIZATION: General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church

PERSON: Alex Mindlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



378 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2359 words

HEADLINE: Turf Wars

BYLINE: By ABBY GRUEN

 BODY:
MIDWAY through field hockey season last fall, K. J. Warren, the captain of the Mamaroneck High School varsity squad, would begin practices by arranging blue tarps on the field to protect it from impending rain. The team, which won a New York State championship in 2004, had already missed several important practices because of poor field conditions and could not afford to skip more.
 It was not lost on Ms. Warren that Mamaroneck's archrival, Lakeland High School in northern Westchester County, which went on to win the 2006 state championship, had been playing on a synthetic turf field for two years.
''When you have a synthetic turf field you know that you can practice every day,'' said Ms. Warren, a 17-year-old senior who is headed to Harvard, where she expects to continue playing field hockey. Her Mamaroneck team not only lost valuable practice time because of the condition of its own field, but was also forced to play some of its home games on borrowed fields a half-hour drive away. 
 To help meet the increasing demand for durable athletic fields as growing numbers of sports teams play ever-expanding seasons, hundreds of cities, towns and school districts around the region have installed costly synthetic turf surfaces in the last five years to replace grass. 
 Many communities that have not invested in artificially surfaced fields are now feeling pressure to follow suit. But not everyone is embracing synthetic turf, citing the considerable expense. For a multisport synthetic surface the size of a football field, the cost ranges from $600,000 to $1 million for installation, and up to $5,000 a year for maintenance, according to industry sources. In several communities, the debate over installing turf has pitted suburban parents and sports boosters against residents wary of higher taxes.
 Alison Paul, whose son plays football on grass at Sleepy Hollow High School in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., is a member of a parents' group now working with the school board on addressing overused fields, including the possibility of investing in synthetic turf. 
 ''It's like when computers came in and everyone had to get computers,'' Ms. Paul said. ''It raised the bar, and now when schools are getting turf fields it puts your kid at a disadvantage, because your kid is slugging it out in the mud while the other kids can play on turf in all weather.''
 The shortage of playing fields is a bigger problem in older cities and suburbs where development has left limited space for new fields. The oldest high schools often have only one or two fields, designed years ago for their football and baseball teams. 
 Since Title IX was enacted in 1972, the gender gap in sports has narrowed and high school girls' programs are mirroring the boys' in breadth. At the same time, there has been a boom in community recreational and travel leagues in soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, baseball, softball and football, with programs from the peewee through adult levels all competing for field time. In some cases, teams want to practice throughout the year, which is impossible on most grass fields.
 Some taxpayers, particularly in New Jersey, are saying enough is enough. Two weeks ago, voters in Glen Ridge, in Essex County, soundly rejected a $6.9 million bond issue that would have included $2 million to replace two existing fields with synthetic turf.
 ''It became a contentious battle over not just turf, but who controls the community -- how we want to be taxed, and what we value as a community,'' said Kit Schackner, 55, a founder of Glen Ridge Votes, a taxpayer group organized late last year to oppose the bond issue. ''Property taxes have risen in six years by 47 percent. A smaller bond ordinance for less -- just the necessary improvements -- would have passed without a whimper.''
 Similar bond proposals that included money for synthetic fields were turned down in the last year in Verona and in Irvington, N.Y., and Babylon, N.Y. Then there are poorer cities that are not even considering synthetic turf. 
 In Greenwich and Westport, Conn., however, booster groups for youth sports have raised millions of dollars in the past two years to supplement town money for their first turf conversions. 
 The popularity of synthetic turf fields at the high school level began growing in the late 1990s when the industry started experimenting with a surface made from shag nylon fibers roughly two inches high, saturated with an ''infill'' of rubber granules, sometimes mixed with sand. Unlike previous synthetic surfaces, which were basically heavy nylon carpeting over a pad, the new turf was not hard or abrasive, said Elliot Levine, president of Sprinturf, a manufacturer based in Wayne, Pa.
 ''My concerns for safety, as far as injuries, are drastically changed,'' said Dennis Robinson, the athletic director at Lakeland High School in Shrub Oak, N.Y. ''If a student falls, it's a cushion.''
 Last year, 850 synthetic turf fields were installed in the United States, according to industry sources, who estimate there are more than 150 fields in New Jersey, 150 in New York and at least 30 in Connecticut. 
 Supporters of artificial turf are not limited to youth sports groups. On a recent Wednesday night at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, the Rye Men's Soccer Club was scrimmaging on a two-year-old synthetic turf field. With snow in the forecast and puddles turning to ice in the parking lot, the men, from 30 to 60 years old, were still racing up and down the field.
 ''This is fantastic,'' said Brian O'Gallagher, 50, of Rye, who has been playing in the club's semiweekly pickup games for six years. ''Because the strands are of varying lengths you don't get burned when you slide. You don't get shin splints. We haven't had any knee injuries. '' 
 The field was installed with money from the Westchester County Legacy Program, an open-space preservation fund, which has committed close to $22 million for 15 turf fields over the past six years. In the Village of Larchmont, N.Y., where Ms. Warren plays field hockey, the school district, three municipalities and five sports leagues are now working together with Fields for Kids, a coalition of volunteers, to begin the process of finding money and space for both grass and synthetic fields.
 ''The truth is that anything we do is more effective if we do it on an intermunicipal basis,'' said Elizabeth N. Feld, the mayor of Larchmont. ''Otherwise we end up cannibalizing each other. We'd be tapping the same private donor pool. We'd be taxing the same base.''
 Larchmont has taken a first step toward installing a synthetic field by applying for a $2.5 million grant from the county Legacy Program. The money would be spent for improvements to Flint Park, where the high school field hockey team plays, including a new synthetic turf field. Fields for Kids has also promised to help raise up to $1.5 million in private donations to restore additional grass fields and waterfront in the park.
 But the county's future emphasis will be on turf instead of grass, said Joseph A. Stout, commissioner of parks, recreation and conservation, who oversees the Legacy Program.
 ''We won't get involved in a project if it's not turf, because the durability of the fields is light-years ahead of grass,'' Mr. Stout said. ''You can play on them every day, all day long, and they don't wear out. They cost more upfront to build, but maintenance costs are much less.''
 In New Jersey, the state-run Green Acres Program, administered by the Department of Environmental Protection, provided more than $2.8 million for six synthetic turf fields in Bergen and Essex Counties -- in Fort Lee, Hackensack, Lodi, Maplewood, and Brookdale County Park in Bloomfield and Montclair. High schools are not eligible for state financing since the fields are not being preserved for conservation, so some communities are issuing bonds by referendum or getting private donations.
 Last year, in Verona, an Essex County town of 13,000, a parents' group, the Turf Field Fund Committee, was able to raise $50,000 in private donations over 10 weeks, mostly through a raffle. But that was not enough to sway voters to approve a $1.6 million referendum to add turf and lighting to the local high school field.
 Carlo Calabrese, 51, a lifelong resident of Verona, whose three children have all played sports at the high school, said, ''We're going to do our best to try now to look for private donations.'' 
 The school district's budget is so tight that field maintenance has been deferred for four or five years, making conditions even worse, said Steven Spardel, 45, president of the school board. 
 ''Our labor costs and our health care costs increase faster than our whole budget can increase,'' said Mr. Spardel, who works in the pharmaceutical industry. ''We're not going to fire a math teacher so we can grow grass. They should throw us out of office if we made that decision.'' 
 As a football coach for his son's recreational league team in Summit, Dean Geibel, a real estate developer, was aware of a shortage of fields in his town. So, when the city council began exploring turf as a solution, he volunteered to pay half the $900,000 cost of converting one of the fields to synthetic grass. The city paid the other half, and the new field opened in time for the 2005 football season.
 ''I can't tell you how many times people come up to me and say thank you,'' said Mr. Geibel, 48.
 In Bernardsville, a group of parents have been trying to raise private money and work with local officials to address concerns about the overuse of the one high school field and a handful of town-owned fields.
 ''We saw that neighboring Basking Ridge was able to put in turf by raising half the money privately, and the other half with a loan secured by contracts with local youth athletic leagues who pay $5,000 to $10,000 a year to have access,'' said Doug Smoot, 46, a father of two varsity high school soccer players and a founding member of the group, which has raised $100,000 so far. The goal is for $800,000 to be raised privately this year. 
 ''But when we approached the school board, they said, we don't want 100-year-old Bernardsville High School, located in a quaint, charming neighborhood, to be busy with games and lights until 9:30 or 10 at night,'' Mr. Smoot said. To address that concern, the parents are proposing limited use of lights.
 In 2004, in Westport, a group of volunteers representing various sports groups in town got together to raise private money for new synthetic fields.
 After soliciting $1.5 million from 220 private donors, the group, the Westport Field of Dreams, was able to install two turf fields in time for the fall 2006 sports season. Each of the athletic groups, including the high school football booster club, the soccer and field hockey associations and the Police Athletic League, committed to raising $100,000. The committee, which is in the process of raising $860,000 for a third field, is expecting the Town of Westport to put in $700,000 for a fourth field, with both to be ready by fall 2007.
 ''We knew we had to install synthetic turf to be at a competitive level with other communities in the state,'' said the Field of Dreams chairman, Dan De Vito, who is also the operations supervisor for Westport's parks and recreation.
 The public high school in Greenwich, Conn., one of the largest in the state, has installed four new turf fields in the past two years.
 A booster club, the Greenwich High School Sports Foundation, raised a quarter of the $4 million cost of the fields, and the balance was paid by the Town of Greenwich through its capital budget, said Anthony Byrne, director of facilities for the Greenwich School District. Field scheduling is handled by the town, but school teams have first priority.
 In Stamford, Conn., the first three synthetic turf fields were installed at the two public high schools for about $3 million, and were paid for out of the city's capital budget, said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy. ''Every year we are putting money aside.''
 The recreational athletic leagues have asked that the next few fields be put on city park property where the leagues would have greater access -- and priority in scheduling -- than they have on school property, said Bob Pepi, a director of the Stamford Youth Soccer League. The city has committed to build the next turf field at West Beach Park, with construction expected to start next fall.
 Like Stamford, the Town of Oyster Bay, in Nassau County, N.Y., has a much larger tax base than many suburban municipalities. 
 ''It used to be that the focus around here was build, build, build,'' said the town supervisor, John Venditto. ''Then, in the '90s, the focus changed, and people began to ask for more open space and recreational facilities for their children. We set out to make ourselves the recreational capital for the Northeast.''
 The town issued two $30 million environmental bonds, in 2001 and 2003, to preserve open space. Another, just as large, is being considered this year. In the past three years the town has built six and a half synthetic turf fields (the ''half'' is for peewee soccer), with four more full-sized fields expected to be completed by 2008. Money for the town's field conversions has come from the capital budget, the environmental bonds and two $250,000 grants from the New York Economic Development Program, administered by the State Dormitory Authority.
 Mr. Venditto is particularly proud of two synthetic turf fields that are on property that had been designated for commercial development.
 ''We don't need to build on all of our open space,'' Mr. Venditto said. ''A turf field is far more sorely needed than another big box store.''
 In Massapequa, in the Town of Oyster Bay, youth soccer and lacrosse travel teams play outside on the turf all winter, unless there is snow.
 ''When people ask me, 'Are these fields worth it?' '' Mr. Venditto said, ''I ask, 'What price do you place on the value of these fields in terms of our young people?' If even one of our children gets involved with activities in the park instead of on the street corner, it's invaluable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEP OFF THE GRASS -- A synthetic surface at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains is the Rye Men's Soccer Club's home field. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AND DON'T CHEW IT-- Artificial fields like the one above used by the Rye Men's Soccer Club at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, and the synthetic surface at John J. Burns Town Park in Massapequa, N.Y., center photographs, have different maintenance requirements from natural grass, requiring some different prohibitions. In Bernardsville, below, a proposal to replace one of the high school's athletic fields with artificial turf has met with criticism from nearby homeowners who say the increased use that would result would diminish their quality of life. (Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
(Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); SUBURBS (68%); PARENTING (65%) Athletics and Sports; Artificial Turf ; Athletics and Sports

PERSON: Abby Gruen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



379 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Zoned to the Horizon

BYLINE: By George Hawkins. 
George Hawkins is the executive director of New Jersey Future, a research group that monitors land use.

DATELINE: Trenton 

 BODY:
THERE is a hidden cost to New Jersey's property tax system that hurts families, businesses and the environment, yet it's an issue that is rarely addressed: sprawl. 
 Poorly planned growth has put New Jersey on track to becoming the first state to be completely ''built out'' -- and the state's tax system is largely to blame. At issue is the so-called ratables chase, which encourages local officials to seek new development as a way to hold down property tax rates.
How have property taxes encouraged sprawl? Just do the math. The average cost of educating a child in this state is $12,981, while the median residential property tax bill (only part of which covers education costs) is $5,352, according to the census. 
 Clearly, property taxes fail to pay for schools, so many towns in New Jersey have made the perfectly logical choice to favor the creation of business zones, essentially outlawing family housing. Commercial properties like shopping malls are preferred because they bolster the tax rolls while making fewer demands for services. Sadly, when towns opt for commercial business development, they seldom take into account how it will affect transportation, sewer service, the water supply and workforce housing. 
 Given the clear financial incentives favoring business over residential development, it is no wonder that New Jersey now faces a housing shortage as well as high real estate prices. New Jersey residents pay the highest housing costs, which includes mortgage payments or rent, insurance, property taxes and heating and utility bills, in the nation and have for the last three years. 
 But it's not just a housing shortage that results from this preference for commercial development. There are other aspects of quality of life that are hurt by the sprawl that commercial development creates. Take traffic. New Jersey has the third worst average daily commute in the United States, 30 minutes each way. And open space in New Jersey is disappearing at a rate that is 2.3 times faster than the state's population increase. The loss of some 50 acres of open space each day to development endangers New Jersey's drinking water supply and increases storm runoff and the risk of flooding. 
 Then there's the economy. Traffic and the lack of housing are among the chief problems cited by an increasing number of companies that are leaving New Jersey to do business elsewhere. Since 1995, the Garden State has lost more high-tech jobs than any other state. And many of New Jersey's workers don't even live in the state. According to the census, about 76,000 people commute to northern and central New Jersey each day from lower-cost Pennsylvania.
 If New Jersey is to remain economically competitive, lawmakers must look beyond short-term fixes like tax credits or rebates and promote long-term reform that eliminates the ratables chase and slows sprawl. More state financing for schools and regional service sharing, which would reduce the competition between municipalities for commercial development, are just a few ways to address these systemic problems. 
 Interim solutions can also help. Providing economic incentives for the redevelopment of urban centers, where many properties now sit abandoned, would not only help the state's economy but also reduce environmental threats. According to the State Plan Impact Assessment, reversing sprawl by redirecting growth to New Jersey's aging urban centers would save $2.3 billion in capital costs over 20 years and would trim as much as $160 million from municipal and school district budgets. 
 Innovative solutions to create more workforce housing would also be a huge benefit to New Jersey. In fact, New Jersey should follow the lead of Massachusetts, which provides cash incentives to help communities build housing for families with schoolchildren. In 10 years, Massachusetts expects to create some 33,000 housing units at an annual cost of just $50 million.
 In the face of rising education costs that cannot be paid for by ever-increasing property taxes, the ratables chase is an understandable phenomenon, but it needs to stop. After all, if we can eliminate the ratables chase, we can slow sprawl and improve the quality of life for everyone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ZONING (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); UTILITY RATES (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); FLOOD INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SALES REBATES (58%); RETAILERS (52%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Economic Conditions and Trends; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: George Hawkins

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



380 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2358 words

HEADLINE: Turf Wars

BYLINE: By ABBY GRUEN

 BODY:
MIDWAY through field hockey season last fall, K. J. Warren, the captain of the Mamaroneck High School varsity squad, would begin practices by arranging blue tarps on the field to protect it from impending rain. The team, which won a New York State championship in 2004, had already missed several important practices because of poor field conditions and could not afford to skip more.
 It was not lost on Ms. Warren that Mamaroneck's archrival, Lakeland High School in northern Westchester County, which went on to win the 2006 state championship, had been playing on a synthetic turf field for two years.
''When you have a synthetic turf field you know that you can practice every day,'' said Ms. Warren, a 17-year-old senior who is headed to Harvard, where she expects to continue playing field hockey. Her Mamaroneck team not only lost valuable practice time because of the condition of its own field, but was also forced to play some of its home games on borrowed fields a half-hour drive away. 
 To help meet the increasing demand for durable athletic fields as growing numbers of sports teams play ever-expanding seasons, hundreds of cities, towns and school districts around the region have installed costly synthetic turf surfaces in the last five years to replace grass. 
 Many communities that have not invested in artificially surfaced fields are now feeling pressure to follow suit. But not everyone is embracing synthetic turf, citing the considerable expense. For a multisport synthetic surface the size of a football field, the cost ranges from $600,000 to $1 million for installation, and up to $5,000 a year for maintenance, according to industry sources. In several communities, the debate over installing turf has pitted suburban parents and sports boosters against residents wary of higher taxes.
 Alison Paul, whose son plays football on grass at Sleepy Hollow High School in Sleepy Hollow, is a member of a parents' group now working with the school board on addressing overused fields, including the possibility of investing in synthetic turf. 
 ''It's like when computers came in and everyone had to get computers,'' Ms. Paul said. ''It raised the bar, and now when schools are getting turf fields it puts your kid at a disadvantage, because your kid is slugging it out in the mud while the other kids can play on turf in all weather.''
 The shortage of playing fields is a bigger problem in older cities and suburbs where development has left limited space for new fields. The oldest high schools often have only one or two fields, designed years ago for their football and baseball teams. 
 Since Title IX was enacted in 1972, the gender gap in sports has narrowed and high school girls' programs are mirroring the boys' in breadth. At the same time, there has been a boom in community recreational and travel leagues in soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, baseball, softball and football, with programs from the peewee through adult levels all competing for field time. In some cases, teams want to practice throughout the year, which is impossible on most grass fields.
 Some taxpayers, particularly in New Jersey, are saying enough is enough. Two weeks ago, voters in Glen Ridge, in Essex County, soundly rejected a $6.9 million bond issue that would have included $2 million to replace two existing fields with synthetic turf.
 ''It became a contentious battle over not just turf, but who controls the community -- how we want to be taxed, and what we value as a community,'' said Kit Schackner, 55, a founder of Glen Ridge Votes, a taxpayer group organized late last year to oppose the bond issue. ''Property taxes have risen in six years by 47 percent. A smaller bond ordinance for less -- just the necessary improvements -- would have passed without a whimper.''
 Similar bond proposals that included money for synthetic fields were turned down in the last year in Irvington; Babylon on Long Island; and Verona, N.J. Then there are poorer cities that are not even considering synthetic turf.
 In Greenwich and Westport, Conn., however, booster groups for youth sports have raised millions of dollars in the past two years to supplement town money for their first turf conversions. 
 The popularity of synthetic turf fields at the high school level began growing in the late 1990s when the industry started experimenting with a surface made from shag nylon fibers roughly two inches high, saturated with an ''infill'' of rubber granules, sometimes mixed with sand. Unlike previous synthetic surfaces, which were basically heavy nylon carpeting over a pad, the new turf was not hard or abrasive, said Elliot Levine, president of Sprinturf, a manufacturer based in Wayne, Pa.
 ''My concerns for safety, as far as injuries, are drastically changed,'' said Dennis Robinson, the athletic director at Lakeland High School in Shrub Oak. ''If a student falls, it's a cushion.''
 Last year, 850 synthetic turf fields were installed in the United States, according to industry sources, who estimate there are more than 150 fields in New Jersey, 150 in New York and at least 30 in Connecticut. 
 Supporters of artificial turf are not limited to youth sports groups. On a recent Wednesday night at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, the Rye Men's Soccer Club was scrimmaging on a two-year-old synthetic turf field. With snow in the forecast and puddles turning to ice in the parking lot, the men, from 30 to 60 years old, were still racing up and down the field.
 ''This is fantastic,'' said Brian O'Gallagher, 50, of Rye, who has been playing in the club's semiweekly pickup games for six years. ''Because the strands are of varying lengths you don't get burned when you slide. You don't get shin splints. We haven't had any knee injuries. '' 
 The field was installed with money from the Westchester County Legacy Program, an open-space preservation fund, which has committed close to $22 million for 15 turf fields over the past six years. In the Village of Larchmont, where Ms. Warren plays field hockey, the school district, three municipalities and five sports leagues are now working together with Fields for Kids, a coalition of volunteers, to begin the process of finding money and space for both grass and synthetic fields.
 ''The truth is that anything we do is more effective if we do it on an intermunicipal basis,'' said Elizabeth N. Feld, the mayor of Larchmont. ''Otherwise we end up cannibalizing each other. We'd be tapping the same private donor pool. We'd be taxing the same base.''
 Larchmont has taken a first step toward installing a synthetic field by applying for a $2.5 million grant from the county Legacy Program. The money would be spent for improvements to Flint Park, where the high school field hockey team plays, including a new synthetic turf field. Fields for Kids has also promised to help raise up to $1.5 million in private donations to restore additional grass fields and waterfront in the park.
 But the county's future emphasis will be on turf instead of grass, said Joseph A. Stout, commissioner of parks, recreation and conservation, who oversees the Legacy Program.
 ''We won't get involved in a project if it's not turf, because the durability of the fields is light-years ahead of grass,'' Mr. Stout said. ''You can play on them every day, all day long, and they don't wear out. They cost more upfront to build, but maintenance costs are much less.''
 In New Jersey, the state-run Green Acres Program, administered by the Department of Environmental Protection, provided more than $2.8 million for six synthetic turf fields in Bergen and Essex Counties -- in Fort Lee, Hackensack, Lodi, Maplewood, and Brookdale County Parkin Bloomfield and Montclair. High schools are not eligible for state financing since the fields are not being preserved for conservation, so some communities are issuing bonds by referendum or getting private donations.
 Last year, in Verona, an Essex County town of 13,000, a parents' group, the Turf Field Fund Committee, was able to raise $50,000 in private donations over 10 weeks, mostly through a raffle. But that was not enough to sway voters to approve a $1.6 million referendum to add turf and lighting to the local high school field.
 Carlo Calabrese, 51, a lifelong resident of Verona, whose three children have all played sports at the high school, said, ''We're going to do our best to try now to look for private donations.'' 
 The school district's budget is so tight that field maintenance has been deferred for four or five years, making conditions even worse, said Steven Spardel, 45, president of the school board. 
 ''Our labor costs and our health care costs increase faster than our whole budget can increase,'' said Mr. Spardel, who works in the pharmaceutical industry. ''We're not going to fire a math teacher so we can grow grass. They should throw us out of office if we made that decision.'' 
 As a football coach for his son's recreational league team in Summit, N.J., Dean Geibel, a real estate developer, was aware of a shortage of fields in his town. So, when the city council began exploring turf as a solution, he volunteered to pay half the $900,000 cost of converting one of the fields to synthetic grass. The city paid the other half, and the new field opened in time for the 2005 football season.
 ''I can't tell you how many times people come up to me and say thank you,'' said Mr. Geibel, 48.
 In Bernardsville, N.J., a group of parents have been trying to raise private money and work with local officials to address concerns about the overuse of the one high school field and a handful of town-owned fields.
 ''We saw that neighboring Basking Ridge was able to put in turf by raising half the money privately, and the other half with a loan secured by contracts with local youth athletic leagues who pay $5,000 to $10,000 a year to have access,'' said Doug Smoot, 46, a father of two varsity high school soccer players and a founding member of the group, which has raised $100,000 so far. The goal is for $800,000 to be raised privately this year. 
 ''But when we approached the school board, they said, we don't want 100-year-old Bernardsville High School, located in a quaint, charming neighborhood, to be busy with games and lights until 9:30 or 10 at night,'' Mr. Smoot said. To address that concern, the parents are proposing limited use of lights.
 In 2004, in Westport, a group of volunteers representing various sports groups in town got together to raise private money for new synthetic fields.
 After soliciting $1.5 million from 220 private donors, the group, the Westport Field of Dreams, was able to install two turf fields in time for the fall 2006 sports season. Each of the athletic groups, including the high school football booster club, the soccer and field hockey associations and the Police Athletic League, committed to raising $100,000. The committee, which is in the process of raising $860,000 for a third field, is expecting the Town of Westport to put in $700,000 for a fourth field, with both to be ready by fall 2007.
 ''We knew we had to install synthetic turf to be at a competitive level with other communities in the state,'' said the Field of Dreams chairman, Dan De Vito, who is also the operations supervisor for Westport's parks and recreation.
 The public high school in Greenwich, Conn., one of the largest in the state, has installed four new turf fields in the past two years.
 A booster club, the Greenwich High School Sports Foundation, raised a quarter of the $4 million cost of the fields, and the balance was paid by the Town of Greenwich through its capital budget, said Anthony Byrne, director of facilities for the Greenwich School District. Field scheduling is handled by the town, but school teams have first priority.
 In Stamford, Conn., the first three synthetic turf fields were installed at the two public high schools for about $3 million, and were paid for out of the city's capital budget, said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy. ''Every year we are putting money aside.''
 The recreational athletic leagues have asked that the next few fields be put on city park property where the leagues would have greater access -- and priority in scheduling -- than they have on school property, said Bob Pepi, a director of the Stamford Youth Soccer League. The city has committed to build the next turf field at West Beach Park, with construction expected to start next fall.
 Like Stamford, the Town of Oyster Bay, in Nassau County, N.Y., has a much larger tax base than many suburban municipalities. 
 ''It used to be that the focus around here was build, build, build,'' said the town supervisor, John Venditto. ''Then, in the '90s, the focus changed, and people began to ask for more open space and recreational facilities for their children. We set out to make ourselves the recreational capital for the Northeast.''
 The town issued two $30 million environmental bonds, in 2001 and 2003, to preserve open space. Another, just as large, is being considered this year. In the past three years the town has built six and a half synthetic turf fields (the ''half'' is for peewee soccer), with four more full-sized fields expected to be completed by 2008. Money for the town's field conversions has come from the capital budget, the environmental bonds and two $250,000 grants from the New York Economic Development Program, administered by the State Dormitory Authority.
 Mr. Venditto is particularly proud of two synthetic turf fields that are on property that had been designated for commercial development.
 ''We don't need to build on all of our open space,'' Mr. Venditto said. ''A turf field is far more sorely needed than another big box store.''
 In Massapequa, in the Town of Oyster Bay, youth soccer and lacrosse travel teams play outside on the turf all winter, unless there is snow.
 ''When people ask me, 'Are these fields worth it?' '' Mr. Venditto said, ''I ask, 'What price do you place on the value of these fields in terms of our young people?' If even one of our children gets involved with activities in the park instead of on the street corner, it's invaluable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEP OFF THE GRASS -- A synthetic surface at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains is the Rye Men's Soccer Club's home field. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AND DON'T CHEW IT -- Artificial fields like the one above used by the Rye Men's Soccer Club at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, and the synthetic surface at John J. Burns Town Park in Massapequa, N.Y., center photographs, have different maintenance requirements from natural grass, requiring some different prohibitions. In Bernardsville, N.J., below, a proposal to replace one of the high school's athletic fields with artificial turf has met with criticism from nearby homeowners who say the increased use that would result would diminish their quality of life. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); SUBURBS (68%); PARENTING (65%) Athletics and Sports; Artificial Turf ; Athletics and Sports

PERSON: Abby Gruen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



381 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; The Suburban Life; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Bricks and Boundaries

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
A documentary that aired on public television this month was a useful reminder of how ignorance, fear, racism and political testosterone can make people do crazy things, particularly when TV cameras are around. But the film, ''Brick by Brick: A Civil Rights Story,'' which recounts the monumental struggle between the federal government and Yonkers over segregation in the city's neighborhoods and schools, is more than just a video flashback to an old news story from the woolly 1980's. It should be a sober warning about the present day. America -- never mind Yonkers -- still grapples with unsettled issues of poverty and race, and until that conundrum is resolved, it will keep reasserting itself in new and troubling ways. 
 The film, produced and directed by Bill Kavanagh (www.brick-by-brick.com) is a fascinating artifact, particularly for those too young or too new to Yonkers to remember its relatively recent role as the Birmingham of the Northeast. It lays out the city's starkly devised gridwork of racial separation. It revisits the heated public meetings and demonstrations that erupted over plans to disperse poor residents from black neighborhoods into white ones. It shows the self-negating stubbornness that led the Yonkers City Council to endure crippling fines over its refusal to bend to a federal judge's will and enact an affordable housing plan.
The story is told through the recollections of three families whose quiet calm and good sense make the swirling madness around them seem all the more surreal. But the events in the film really happened -- the library closings and layoffs, the noxious political grandstanding, the suicide of a young ex-mayor, the eventual bittersweet ribbon cuttings for some houses here and there. The story trickles down to a quiet end with lots of loose ends -- the city's east side becomes more diverse but doesn't collapse; some white people have a change of heart, but not everybody; poverty in southwest Yonkers continues as usual. 
 At a viewing of the film the other night at the Yonkers public library, the mood was poignant and prideful, as lawyers and subjects recounted the struggle and took note of the virtues of perseverance. But speaker after speaker was careful to inject a cautionary note. Some urged Mr. Kavanagh, who spent years making this film, to start making another one.
 Their proposed sequel could be the ironic twist to end all ironic twists. It involves the redevelopment of the Yonkers downtown and waterfront, in which city leaders are spinning grand visions of new offices and shops, a ball park and gleaming residential towers along the Hudson. The ingredients are essentially the same as in ''Brick by Brick'' -- ambitious city planners, the complicated racial mix, new development upending old neighborhoods. But the old dynamic has been flipped -- the new housing would be mostly for the relatively affluent, in what used to be the neglected part of town. 
 The looming villain now is not racism but gentrification. The concern among survivors of the last great Yonkers housing struggle is that there will be a new one, and that the losers -- poor people, minority owners of small businesses, people who aren't white and connected to the levers of power -- will be the same as they always are. 
 LAWRENCE DOWNES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CLOSINGS (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); MAYORS (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); JUDGES (65%); LAYOFFS (63%) Blacks; Discrimination; Television

PERSON: Lawrence Downes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



382 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: Nuclear Chat; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Deciding On the Enemy Worth Talking To

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to finding a way to disarm your enemies, here is a puzzle: How do you decide which dictatorial, nuke-building regimes to negotiate with, and which to freeze out, sanction or intimidate with a couple of aircraft carriers?
 That, in a nutshell, is a looming question raised by last week's long-delayed deal with North Korea. Even while hardliners and conservatives were assailing the administration last week for ''selling out'' to Kim Jong Il, some in the administration were wondering whether there are lessons here for dealing with Iran.
 The deal Mr. Bush approved requires North Korea to stop producing plutonium, seal its giant nuclear facility at Yongbyon and -- after a negotiation yet to happen -- take apart the nuclear complex. Over the next 60 days, the North also has to invite back the inspectors it threw out of the country four years ago -- and declare where it has hidden the rest of its nuclear materials and facilities.
 That would seem hard enough for the hermit nation, but the next part could be even harder: In return for concessions no one is yet talking about, the North would give up its nuclear arsenal. 
 Many hardened North Korea watchers say it will never happen. After all, that arsenal, estimated by American intelligence agencies at six to a dozen weapons or the fuel for them, is the only source of power for the isolated, bankrupt Hermit Kingdom. 
 But here's the curious part: Mr. Bush's aides worked out this ''first step'' in one-on-one talks in Berlin of the kind the White House refused to hold a few years back, while North Korea was still busily producing nuclear fuel to make its next generation of weapons. Those are exactly the steps Mr. Bush refuses to take with Tehran. 
 On Wednesday, even while celebrating the North Korean deal, Mr. Bush repeated his bottom line on opening talks with Tehran: They must stop enriching uranium first. 
 So what explains the difference? Why talk to one brutal regime that imprisons its dissidents in gulags, while refusing all kinds of advice -- from Republicans, the Iraq Study Group, and others -- to start talking to Iran?
 Inside the White House, the logic goes this way: North Korea's nuclear program is already ''mature,'' a delicate way of saying that, thanks to years of failed efforts of administrations that go back three decades, the country has joined the eight other nations known to have nuclear weapons. Insisting on suspending fuel production, one senior administration official said recently, would not gain the United States any leverage. 
 Iran, they argue, is different. It has no weapons -- at least not yet. The Americans' objective is to prevent the Iranians from following the North Korean model, and to avoid waking up some day to news of the Iranian equivalent of North Korea's nuclear detonation, which took place last October.
 But President Bush worries, his aides say, that to negotiate with Iran while it is still enriching uranium would be to open up Washington to blackmail. ''Think about it,'' said one senior administration official. ''While we're talking, the clock ticks. The Iranians can drag this out for years. But while the talks are on, no one is willing to invoke real sanctions'' -- or threaten, even vaguely, that if the issue isn't settled soon Mr. Bush or the Israelis might consider ''disabling'' Iran's facilities from the air.
 This results in the American conundrum, made worse by Iran's ability to cause trouble in Iraq, a problem the administration has been loudly declaring is getting worse. ''When you can't bomb, and you won't negotiate, you end up in a third box -- acquiescing to bad things happening,'' said Robert Gallucci, the dean of the Georgetown School of Foreign Service, who was the main American interlocutor with North Korea in the Clinton administration.
 ''Many will say, 'What about sanctions?' '' Mr. Gallucci added. But that ''often turns out to be acquiescing,'' especially if countries like Russia, one of Iran's biggest trading partners, decline to turn the screws.
 Of course, what Mr. Bush is facing now is the worst of all those bad choices. With no negotiations underway with Iran, the country has defied the United Nations and is continuing to enrich uranium (though it appears to have run into technical troubles that have slowed its progress). While the Security Council has imposed some mild sanctions, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice concedes that trying to escalate those punishments by passing more Security Council resolutions is probably ineffective. The Russians and the Chinese have made clear they simply won't go along much farther.
 That leaves Mr. Bush with the choice of hinting at military action -- an option his new secretary of defense, Robert Gates, has all but dismissed. ''For the umpteenth time we are not looking for an excuse to go to war with Iran,'' he declared the other day, out of exasperation. 
 So, instead, Mr. Bush has chosen to exert more financial pressure against European banks and others who do business with Iran, in hopes of squeezing the country so hard that it decides its leaders have to go.
 R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, argued in a speech in Washington on Wednesday that the squeeze is working -- in ways it could not in North Korea -- because Iran is ''not a monolithic system, there are many voices, many different points of view.'' Mr. Bush mused happily the other day about the troubles that Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Holocaust-questioning president of Iran, is facing from elements of Iranian society that want jobs and visas. 
 What may really be going on here, says Robert S. Litwak, the author of ''Regime Change,'' is that, ''Iran is seen as the more dynamic threat'' than North Korea. ''That means the administration felt it could defer the core issue of disarmament'' in the case of the North; it does not feel that it has that luxury with the Iranians, even if they are years from an actual weapon.
 But the ultimate lesson of the North Korea case may be that even after sanctions, even after mutual threats, at some point both sides have to take the leap toward negotiations. 
 The Iranians keep sending hints they are ready to do so; on Friday evening, in response to questions, a senior administration official who is at the center of Iran policymaking (but would not agree to be quoted on the record) insisted that ''it is not us refusing to talk to the Iranians, but they are refusing to come back'' under the conditions the United States and Europe established. 
 North Korea is also a reminder that those conditions can change. Just a year or two ago the deal reached last week would have been rejected by administration hardliners as rewarding bad behavior -- and perpetuating one of the world's most repressive governments. That is still the view of many of the advisers Mr. Bush once relied on.
 In the last two years of his administration, he has confronted reality in the coldest corner of East Asia. The question now is whether that foreshadows a similar shift as he confronts the dangers of the hottest corner of the Middle East.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speak -- Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad could be ready to negotiate. (Photo by Behrouz Mehri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (72%) North Korea; Iran; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



383 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Nafta Should Have Stopped Illegal Immigration, Right?

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
THE North American Free Trade Agreement, enacted by Congress 14 years ago, held out an alluring promise: the agreement would reduce illegal immigration from Mexico. Mexicans, the argument went, would enjoy the prosperity and employment that the trade agreement would undoubtedly generate -- and not feel the need to cross the border into the United States. 
 But today the number of illegal migrants has only continued to rise. Why didn't Nafta curb this immigration? The answer is complicated, of course. But a major factor lies in the assumptions made in drafting the trade agreement, assumptions about the way governments would behave (that is, rationally) and the way markets would respond (rationally, as well). 
Neither happened, yet Nafta remains the model for trade agreements with developing Latin countries, including the Central American Free Trade Agreement, passed by Congress in 2005. Three more Nafta-like agreements are now pending in Congress -- with Panama, Columbia and Peru. 
 When Nafta finally became a reality, on Jan. 1, 1994, American investment flooded into Mexico, mostly to finance factories that manufacture automobiles, appliances, TV sets, apparel and the like. The expectation was that the Mexican government would do its part by investing billions of dollars in roads, schooling, sanitation, housing and other needs to accommodate the new factories as they spread through the country.
 It was more than an expectation. Many Mexican officials in the government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari assured the Clinton administration that the investment would take place, and believed it themselves, said Gary Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington who campaigned for Nafta in the early 1990s. 
 ''It just did not happen,'' he said.
 Absent that investment, foreign factories congregated in the north, within 300 miles of the American border, where some infrastructure already existed. ''Monterrey is quite good,'' Mr. Hufbauer said, ''but in a lot of other cities the infrastructure is terrible, not even enough running water or electricity in poor neighborhoods. People get temporary jobs, but that is all.''
 Meanwhile, Mexican manufacturers, once protected by tariffs on a host of products, were driven out of business as less expensive, higher quality merchandise flowed into the country. Later, China, with its even-cheaper labor, added to the pressure, luring away manufacturers and jobs.
 Indeed, despite the influx of foreign-owned factories, total manufacturing employment in Mexico declined to 3.5 million by 2004 from a high of 4.1 million in 2000, according to a calculation of Robert A. Blecker, an American University economist. 
 As relatively well-paying jobs disappeared, Mexico's average wage for production workers, already low, fell further behind the average hourly pay of production workers in the United States, and Mexicans responded by migrating.
 ''The main thing that would have stemmed the flow of people across the border was a rapid increase in wages in Mexico,'' said Dani Rodrik, an economist and trade specialist at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government. ''And that certainly has not happened.'' 
 Something similar occurred in agriculture. The assumption was that tens of thousands of farmers who cultivated corn would act ''rationally'' and continue farming, even as less expensive corn imported from the United States flooded the market. The farmers, it was assumed, would switch to growing strawberries and vegetables -- with some help from foreign investment -- and then export these crops to the United States. Instead, the farmers exported themselves, partly because the Mexican government decided to reduce tariffs on corn even faster than Nafta required, according to Philip Martin, an agricultural economist at the University of California, Davis.
 ''We understood that the transition from corn to strawberries would not be smooth,'' Professor Martin said. ''But we did not think there would be almost no transition.''
 A financial crisis also dashed expectations. One expectation was that the Mexican economy, driven by Nafta, would grow rapidly, generating jobs and keeping Mexicans home. The peso crisis of 1994-95, however, provoked a steep recession, and while there was some big growth later, the average annual growth rate over Nafta's lifetime has been less than 3 percent. 
 The financial crisis struck just months after Nafta came into existence, undermining, early on, the Mexican government's ability to spend money on roads, education and other necessary government functions. 
 ''We underestimated Mexico's deficits in physical and human infrastructure,'' said J. Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and a Treasury official in the Clinton administration.
 But, he says, without Nafta the migration would have been even greater. For instance, he says, there would not have been as much investment in the north of the country. 
 Finally, the steady flow of Mexicans to the United States has produced a momentum of its own -- what Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Institute, calls a ''network effect,'' in which young Mexicans travel to the United States in growing numbers to join the growing number of family members already here.
 The upshot is that Mexican migration to the United States has risen to 500,000 a year from less than 400,000 in the early 1990s, before Nafta, Mr. Passel estimates. Roughly 80 percent to 85 percent of immigrants are here illegally, he says.
 The peso crisis, recession, the network effect -- their impact may have been beyond anyone's control, but not the assumptions about how the market and the government would act.
 ''We have indeed had one disappointment after another on this score,'' Mr. Rodrik said, noting that the same assumption about government spending is part and parcel of the agreements, now before Congress, with Columbia, Peru and Panama. 
 While there is opposition to these proposals, it is mainly from Democrats who want a better safety net for American workers who might be hurt. 
 The European Union, in contrast, assumes little about government spending on the part of economically weaker nations joining it. The union itself has hugely subsidized the improved services needed by entering countries like Portugal, Spain, Greece and Poland, rather than leave financing to the relatively meager resources of entering countries.
 The money is used not only for public investment, Mr. Rodrik noted, but also to subsidize companies setting up operations in the new countries and to support government budgets.
 ''I am not saying Nafta was a bad agreement,'' Mr. Rodrik said. ''But more than a trade agreement is required for countries to converge economically. And Nafta has been viewed as a shortcut to convergence without having to do all the other stuff.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Expectations -- Mexican families increasingly crossed the border because higher-paying jobs never made their promised appearance. (Photo by Omar Torres/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Chart: ''Not Exactly What They Had in Mind''Nafta took effect in 1994, but the Mexican economy has not prospered as expected, particularly in recent years.Mexican Wages DownHourly wages for production workers. Figures converted to 2004 U.S. dollars.1994: $2.912004: $2.50MEXICAN WORKERSWAGES DOWN 14%1994: $13.712004: $15.69U.S. WORKERSWAGES UP 14%Factory Jobs DeclinedTotal workers in manufacturing.Graph tracks total workers in manufacturing from 1994 to 2004.Jobs declined 15% since their peak in 2000.Mexico's G.D.P. Growth Is WeakGraph tracks annual change, in percent, from 1994 to 2004.11-year average: 2.9%1995: -6.2%2004: 4.2%There was no growth in 2001.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics [wages]
government of Mexico [manufacturing jobs]
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development [wages and G.D.P.]) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (60%) International Trade and World Market; North American Free Trade Agreement; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Labor; Unemployment; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (50%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PANAMA (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



384 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: They Are America

 BODY:
Almost a year ago, hundreds of thousands of immigrant workers and their families slipped out from the shadows of American life and walked boldly in daylight through Los Angeles, Washington, Chicago, New York and other cities. ''We Are America,'' their banners cried. The crowds, determined but peaceful, swelled into an immense sea. The nation was momentarily stunned.
 A lot has happened since then. The country has summoned great energy to confront the immigration problem, but most of it has been misplaced, crudely and unevenly applied. It seeks not to solve the conundrum of a broken immigration system, but to subdue, in a million ways, the vulnerable men and women who are part of it. Government at all levels is working to keep unwanted immigrants in their place -- on the other side of the border, in detention or in fear, toiling silently in the underground economy without recourse to the laws and protections the native-born expect. 
The overwhelming impulse has been to get tough, and tough we have gotten:
 Border enforcement. What little the last Congress did about immigration was focused on appeasing hard-line conservatives by appearing to seal the border. President Bush's new budget continues that approach, seeking 3,000 more Border Patrol officers and another $1 billion for a 700-mile fence, adding to the billions spent to militarize the border since the 1990s. That still isn't enough to build the fence and it hasn't controlled the illegal flow; you need more visas and better workplace enforcement to do that. It has directed much traffic into the remote Southwest desert, making more immigrants vulnerable to smugglers and leaving many people dead.
 Federal raids. In December federal agents stormed a half-dozen Swift meatpacking plants, rounding up hundreds of suspected illegal immigrants and exposing the secret that is no secret: America's dirtiest, hardest jobs are done by people too desperate to shun them and too afraid to complain. The raids have been replicated in other states and industries, on day-labor street corners and in homes from Connecticut to California. In immigrant communities, the undercurrent of fear has been replaced by terror, and employers are jittery, too. The immigration agency says it singles out only fugitives in Operation Return to Sender, but the sweeps are broad and panic is indiscriminate.
 Local crackdowns. State, county and local officials have picked up where they left off last year, introducing bills to get tough on illegal immigrants. They cannot control federal policy, so they try other ways to punish those they see as unfit neighbors, to stifle their opportunities, extract money, expose them to legal jeopardy and otherwise inflict suffering, in the deluded hope that piling on miseries will make them disappear. In suburban Long Island, where resentment over an influx of day laborers has festered under a hapless and intolerant county government, lawmakers are considering banning workers from county roadsides. Texas legislators are mulling a bill to reject the 14th Amendment and deny the benefits of citizenship to children born in this country to undocumented parents. Local officials all over are trying to deputize police officers as immigration agents, causing overburdened police forces and prosecutors to bristle. Some bills are symbolic, most are simply spiteful, and their effect is a chaotic patchwork, not a sane national policy.
 Gutted due process. Laws enacted a decade ago and tightened after 9/11 distance even legal immigrants from the protection of the law. Immigrants are routinely detained without bond, denied access to lawyers, deported without appeal and punished for one-time or minor infractions with a mechanistic ferocity that precludes a judge's discretion or mercy. Several of the immigration bills that Congress has considered seek to heighten the efficiency with which immigrants who run afoul of the authorities can be railroaded out of the country. This gums up another aspect of the legal system, which deals with refugees and asylum seekers. A much tighter web for immigrants has been erected, and it catches many blameless victims.
 The web of suspicion. The Justice Department wants to expand routine DNA collection to include detained illegal immigrants, creating a vast new database that will sweep up hundreds of thousands of innocent people. DNA, far more than fingerprints, is a trove of deeply personal information. Its routine collection from law-abiding citizens is considered an outrageous violation of privacy rights. In the belief that illegal immigrants lack such rights, DNA swabs and blood would be collected even if a detainee is not suspected of a crime. This reinforces the notion that immigrants should be treated as one huge class of criminal suspects.
 The bureaucratic trap. The federal bureaucracy, notorious for backlogs and bad service, wants to charge more to immigrants who want to become Americans -- an average increase of 66 percent in the price of visas and citizenship papers. Such steep and arbitrary increases would create a means test for citizenship, an affront to our national values.
 The rise of hate. The Anti-Defamation League, acutely sensitive to the presence of intolerance, has detected an increase in Ku Klux Klan activity around the country, much of it focused on hatred of new immigrants. This virus in the bloodstream usually erupts amid national ferment and fear, and according to a report available at www.adl.org, hate groups like the Klan have moved quickly to exploit the simmering debate over immigration.
 Hopelessly fixated on toughness, the immigration debate has lost its balance, overlooking the humanity of the immigrant. There is a starkly diminished understanding that hospitality for the stranger is part of the American ethos, and that as much as we claim to be a nation of immigrants, we have thwarted them at every turn. We must do better.
 The new year began with renewed optimism for the chances of sensible immigration reform in Washington. The hope is justified, but time is short and real change will still require boldness and courage. Citizenship must be the key to reform. The idea of an earned path to citizenship for illegal immigrants was missing from President Bush's State of the Union address this year, though he has continued to say his usual favorable words about reform. The new Democratic Congress and moderate Republicans cannot be afraid to stand up to the anti-amnesty demagogues and lead Mr. Bush to a solution. 
 Enforcement of laws cannot be ignored. Punish immigrants who enter illegally, make them pay back taxes and fines, restrict their ability to get work through deceit and false identities. But open a path to their full inclusion in the life of this country.
 The alternative -- the path of immigrant exploitation, of harassment without hope -- will only repeat the ways the country has shamed itself at countless points in its history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); REFUGEES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SMUGGLING (68%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Editorials; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Citizenship

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



385 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Illegitimate Complaints

BYLINE: By Stephanie Coontz. 
Stephanie Coontz, the director of research and public education at the Council on Contemporary Families, is the author of ''Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage.''

DATELINE: Olympia, Wash. 

 BODY:
PITY poor little Dannielynn, just 5 months old and already the potentially multimillion-dollar prize in a paternity battle waged by three of the unsavory men who partied with her mother, Anna Nicole Smith, in the last years of her troubled and tawdry life. There's an even creepier fourth potential candidate: Ms. Smith's half-sister claims that Ms. Smith's late husband, the nonagenarian billionaire J. Howard Marshall, left behind frozen sperm. And now Ms. Smith's estranged mother has also rushed forward to claim custody of the baby. Could anything be worse for this little girl than to be at the center of such a media circus or to end up with one of these characters?
 Actually, yes. For thousands of years, the future of a child born out of wedlock was of absolutely no interest to anyone, especially if she was an orphan. The only people likely to take her in were people who needed free labor on their farms or required a child ''helper'' small enough to run under dangerous factory machines piecing together broken threads or picking up dropped objects. 
For 500 years, British law, on which American law was modeled, held that a child born to an unwed mother was a ''filius nullius'' -- literally, a child of no one, entitled to support from no one. Little Dannielynn would not have had a right to her mother's inheritance, much less a legal claim to receive support from the family of either her deceased mother or her father. 
 Until a little over a century ago, if an unwed mother died, her parents and siblings, not her child, had first claim to her property. If the child's mother lived, she was often forced to abandon the child to ensure her own survival. For most of history, a woman's sexual partner or estranged mother would never have fought for the right to raise a little Dannielynn. 
 Only for the last 100 years have European and American laws protected the right of children like Dannielynn to inherit from their mothers' estates. It was not until 1968 that the child of an unmarried woman could collect on debts owed to her mother or sue for a mother's wrongful death. And the right to inherit from an unwed father was not guaranteed until 1977. 
 When a young unmarried father, Sherman Gordon, was murdered in 1974, leaving no will, his daughter, who lived with him, got nothing. His possessions went instead to his parents and siblings, because Illinois law did not recognize the rights of illegitimate children. 
 The sordid details surrounding the battle over Dannielynn have led many people to wish that we could revive traditional family values and re-establish marriage as the central institution for organizing sexual relationships and child-rearing. But as usual, the lessons of history are more complex. The fact that Dannielynn has a right to inherit from either of her parents is the result of legal processes that have undermined the role of marriage in determining people's economic and social rights. Surely this change is a welcome corrective to the injustice of traditional marriage laws and family values that stigmatized ''bastards'' for life. 
 It's not as if the old laws of marriage and the old family values stopped people from engaging in sordid sexual liaisons; they merely swept the casualties under the rug. When the future President Grover Cleveland fathered an illegitimate child with a department store clerk, he arranged to have his son taken from her by force and adopted by another family. When the mother objected, Cleveland had her committed to an insane asylum. And the African-American mother of Strom Thurmond's illegitimate child, a former maid in his parents' house, never exposed Thurmond's racist hypocrisy, but instead made do with whatever gifts he offered. 
 The Anna Nicole Smith story may be distasteful. But it hardly represents a more depraved morality than the ''dignified silence'' that surrounded deviations from the family values and marriage customs of the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); FAMILY (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); LEGAL PATERNITY (78%); ORPHANS (77%); MURDER (75%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); WILLS (69%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (64%) Child Custody and Support; Law and Legislation; Marriages; Wills and Estates; Child Custody and Support

ORGANIZATION: Council on Contemporary Families

PERSON: Stephanie Coontz; Anna Nicole Smith; Dannielynn Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); EUROPE (71%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



386 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for Nassau's Future

 BODY:
The remarkable career of Thomas Suozzi, Mr. I Hate Albany, is a powerful example of how to go places by picking fights. But that approach has its limits. Mr. Suozzi, the Nassau county executive, ran for governor last year and got smushed; now he is back where he started, presumably well positioned to learn how useful it can be to get along with others. 
 That would be a good thing, because Mr. Suozzi will need to weave a large web of cooperation and good will if he is to secure what may be the most serious and ambitious goal of his tenure: revitalizing the Hub, the sprawling wasteland in central Nassau that is now home to a decrepit sports arena, acres of blacktop, crowded roads and a host of other underperforming county assets. Mr. Suozzi has made the Hub the centerpiece of his vision for a new Nassau County, where businesses, shops, industry and new mass-transit links hum in densely arranged but well-planned spaces and provide the economic vigor that keeps the rest of the region green, clean and recognizably and lovably suburban.
Mr. Suozzi's vision got a boost this month when the County Legislature approved a development deal for the Hub with the Lighthouse Group, a joint venture of the billionaire Charles B. Wang and Reckson Associates Realty, Long Island's largest landlord. The project now goes to the Town of Hempstead, which controls zoning for the property and thus will exert tremendous influence over the size, scope and fate of Mr. Suozzi's dream.
 The Republicans who run Hempstead must care very little about securing Mr. Suozzi's legacy or burnishing his reputation. But they surely care a great deal about the future of Nassau, and should recognize that Mr. Suozzi's success in making the Hub work will be their success as well. The site has languished under both Republican and Democratic administrations, and any plan that makes the Hub into a regional gem will be remembered long after all the partisan squabblers are forgotten.
 For a while it seemed that Mr. Suozzi might be envisioning the Hub as a personal monument, after he struck a solo deal with Mr. Wang on a plan that included a colossal, highly overblown lighthouse. The current proposal has no monumental aspect, and the fact that it passed the County Legislature with a bipartisan majority, 16 to 2, suggests that people are ready to put both partisan politics aside, and figure out what will work for Nassau County.
 If that happens, it will depend both on Mr. Suozzi's ability to be a deal maker, not a pugilist, and on Hempstead's willingness to be his partner. There is clear evidence that Mr. Suozzi has had humility drilled into him. Besides his defeat last fall, there was that embarrassing car crash when his driver ran a red light, and he vowed to slow himself down a bit. His recent campaign ad in the special State Senate election, in which he and Gov. Eliot Spitzer played a cheery Stiller and Meara in singing the praises of the Democratic candidate, Craig Johnson, was a cheery counterpart to the gloomy shrillness of the ads run by the losing Republican.
 These are good signs, and Nassau residents should expect more of them. Mr. Suozzi has got the ball rolling on the Hub; Hempstead needs to pick it up and play.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ZONING (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); POLITICS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: SL GREEN REALTY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (55%) Reckson Associates Realty Corp

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%)

PERSON: Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; Charles B Wang

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



387 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2361 words

HEADLINE: Turf Wars

BYLINE: By ABBY GRUEN

 BODY:
MIDWAY through field hockey season last fall, K. J. Warren, the captain of the Mamaroneck High School varsity squad, would begin practices by arranging blue tarps on the field to protect it from impending rain. The team, which won a New York State championship in 2004, had already missed several important practices because of poor field conditions and could not afford to skip more.
 It was not lost on Ms. Warren that Mamaroneck's archrival, Lakeland High School in northern Westchester County, which went on to win the 2006 state championship, had been playing on a synthetic turf field for two years.
''When you have a synthetic turf field you know that you can practice every day,'' said Ms. Warren, a 17-year-old senior who is headed to Harvard, where she expects to continue playing field hockey. Her Mamaroneck team not only lost valuable practice time because of the condition of its own field, but was also forced to play some of its home games on borrowed fields a half-hour drive away. 
 To help meet the increasing demand for durable athletic fields as growing numbers of sports teams play ever-expanding seasons, hundreds of cities, towns and school districts around the region have installed costly synthetic turf surfaces in the last five years to replace grass. 
 Many communities that have not invested in artificially surfaced fields are now feeling pressure to follow suit. But not everyone is embracing synthetic turf, citing the considerable expense. For a multisport synthetic surface the size of a football field, the cost ranges from $600,000 to $1 million for installation, and up to $5,000 a year for maintenance, according to industry sources. In several communities, the debate over installing turf has pitted suburban parents and sports boosters against residents wary of higher taxes.
 Alison Paul, whose son plays football on grass at Sleepy Hollow High School in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., is a member of a parents' group now working with the school board on addressing overused fields, including the possibility of investing in synthetic turf. 
 ''It's like when computers came in and everyone had to get computers,'' Ms. Paul said. ''It raised the bar, and now when schools are getting turf fields it puts your kid at a disadvantage, because your kid is slugging it out in the mud while the other kids can play on turf in all weather.''
 The shortage of playing fields is a bigger problem in older cities and suburbs where development has left limited space for new fields. The oldest high schools often have only one or two fields, designed years ago for their football and baseball teams. 
 Since Title IX was enacted in 1972, the gender gap in sports has narrowed and high school girls' programs are mirroring the boys' in breadth. At the same time, there has been a boom in community recreational and travel leagues in soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, baseball, softball and football, with programs from the peewee through adult levels all competing for field time. In some cases, teams want to practice throughout the year, which is impossible on most grass fields.
 Some taxpayers, particularly in New Jersey, are saying enough is enough. Two weeks ago, voters in Glen Ridge, in Essex County, soundly rejected a $6.9 million bond issue that would have included $2 million to replace two existing fields with synthetic turf.
 ''It became a contentious battle over not just turf, but who controls the community -- how we want to be taxed, and what we value as a community,'' said Kit Schackner, 55, a founder of Glen Ridge Votes, a taxpayer group organized late last year to oppose the bond issue. ''Property taxes have risen in six years by 47 percent. A smaller bond ordinance for less -- just the necessary improvements -- would have passed without a whimper.''
 Similar bond proposals that included money for synthetic fields were turned down in the last year in Irvington, N.Y.; Babylon on Long Island; and Verona, N.J. Then there are poorer cities that are not even considering synthetic turf.
 In Greenwich and Westport, Conn., however, booster groups for youth sports have raised millions of dollars in the past two years to supplement town money for their first turf conversions. 
 The popularity of synthetic turf fields at the high school level began growing in the late 1990s when the industry started experimenting with a surface made from shag nylon fibers roughly two inches high, saturated with an ''infill'' of rubber granules, sometimes mixed with sand. Unlike previous synthetic surfaces, which were basically heavy nylon carpeting over a pad, the new turf was not hard or abrasive, said Elliot Levine, president of Sprinturf, a manufacturer based in Wayne, Pa.
 ''My concerns for safety, as far as injuries, are drastically changed,'' said Dennis Robinson, the athletic director at Lakeland High School in Shrub Oak, N.Y. ''If a student falls, it's a cushion.''
 Last year, 850 synthetic turf fields were installed in the United States, according to industry sources, who estimate there are more than 150 fields in New Jersey, 150 in New York and at least 30 in Connecticut. 
 Supporters of artificial turf are not limited to youth sports groups. On a recent Wednesday night at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, the Rye Men's Soccer Club was scrimmaging on a two-year-old synthetic turf field. With snow in the forecast and puddles turning to ice in the parking lot, the men, from 30 to 60 years old, were still racing up and down the field.
 ''This is fantastic,'' said Brian O'Gallagher, 50, of Rye, who has been playing in the club's semiweekly pickup games for six years. ''Because the strands are of varying lengths you don't get burned when you slide. You don't get shin splints. We haven't had any knee injuries. '' 
 The field was installed with money from the Westchester County Legacy Program, an open-space preservation fund, which has committed close to $22 million for 15 turf fields over the past six years. In the Village of Larchmont, N.Y., where Ms. Warren plays field hockey, the school district, three municipalities and five sports leagues are now working together with Fields for Kids, a coalition of volunteers, to begin the process of finding money and space for both grass and synthetic fields.
 ''The truth is that anything we do is more effective if we do it on an intermunicipal basis,'' said Elizabeth N. Feld, the mayor of Larchmont. ''Otherwise we end up cannibalizing each other. We'd be tapping the same private donor pool. We'd be taxing the same base.''
 Larchmont has taken a first step toward installing a synthetic field by applying for a $2.5 million grant from the county Legacy Program. The money would be spent for improvements to Flint Park, where the high school field hockey team plays, including a new synthetic turf field. Fields for Kids has also promised to help raise up to $1.5 million in private donations to restore additional grass fields and waterfront in the park.
 But the county's future emphasis will be on turf instead of grass, said Joseph A. Stout, commissioner of parks, recreation and conservation, who oversees the Legacy Program.
 ''We won't get involved in a project if it's not turf, because the durability of the fields is light-years ahead of grass,'' Mr. Stout said. ''You can play on them every day, all day long, and they don't wear out. They cost more upfront to build, but maintenance costs are much less.''
 In New Jersey, the state-run Green Acres Program, administered by the Department of Environmental Protection, provided more than $2.8 million for six synthetic turf fields in Bergen and Essex Counties -- in Fort Lee, Hackensack, Lodi, Maplewood, and Brookdale County Park in Bloomfield and Montclair. High schools are not eligible for state financing since the fields are not being preserved for conservation, so some communities are issuing bonds by referendum or getting private donations.
 Last year, in Verona, an Essex County town of 13,000, a parents' group, the Turf Field Fund Committee, was able to raise $50,000 in private donations over 10 weeks, mostly through a raffle. But that was not enough to sway voters to approve a $1.6 million referendum to add turf and lighting to the local high school field.
 Carlo Calabrese, 51, a lifelong resident of Verona, whose three children have all played sports at the high school, said, ''We're going to do our best to try now to look for private donations.'' 
 The school district's budget is so tight that field maintenance has been deferred for four or five years, making conditions even worse, said Steven Spardel, 45, president of the school board. 
 ''Our labor costs and our health care costs increase faster than our whole budget can increase,'' said Mr. Spardel, who works in the pharmaceutical industry. ''We're not going to fire a math teacher so we can grow grass. They should throw us out of office if we made that decision.'' 
 As a football coach for his son's recreational league team in Summit, N.J., Dean Geibel, a real estate developer, was aware of a shortage of fields in his town. So, when the city council began exploring turf as a solution, he volunteered to pay half the $900,000 cost of converting one of the fields to synthetic grass. The city paid the other half, and the new field opened in time for the 2005 football season.
 ''I can't tell you how many times people come up to me and say thank you,'' said Mr. Geibel, 48.
 In Bernardsville, N.J., a group of parents have been trying to raise private money and work with local officials to address concerns about the overuse of the one high school field and a handful of town-owned fields.
 ''We saw that neighboring Basking Ridge was able to put in turf by raising half the money privately, and the other half with a loan secured by contracts with local youth athletic leagues who pay $5,000 to $10,000 a year to have access,'' said Doug Smoot, 46, a father of two varsity high school soccer players and a founding member of the group, which has raised $100,000 so far. The goal is for $800,000 to be raised privately this year. 
 ''But when we approached the school board, they said, we don't want 100-year-old Bernardsville High School, located in a quaint, charming neighborhood, to be busy with games and lights until 9:30 or 10 at night,'' Mr. Smoot said. To address that concern, the parents are proposing limited use of lights.
 In 2004, in Westport, a group of volunteers representing various sports groups in town got together to raise private money for new synthetic fields.
 After soliciting $1.5 million from 220 private donors, the group, the Westport Field of Dreams, was able to install two turf fields in time for the fall 2006 sports season. Each of the athletic groups, including the high school football booster club, the soccer and field hockey associations and the Police Athletic League, committed to raising $100,000. The committee, which is in the process of raising $860,000 for a third field, is expecting the Town of Westport to put in $700,000 for a fourth field, with both to be ready by fall 2007.
 ''We knew we had to install synthetic turf to be at a competitive level with other communities in the state,'' said the Field of Dreams chairman, Dan De Vito, who is also the operations supervisor for Westport's parks and recreation.
 The public high school in Greenwich, Conn., one of the largest in the state, has installed four new turf fields in the past two years.
 A booster club, the Greenwich High School Sports Foundation, raised a quarter of the $4 million cost of the fields, and the balance was paid by the Town of Greenwich through its capital budget, said Anthony Byrne, director of facilities for the Greenwich School District. Field scheduling is handled by the town, but school teams have first priority.
 In Stamford, Conn., the first three synthetic turf fields were installed at the two public high schools for about $3 million, and were paid for out of the city's capital budget, said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy. ''Every year we are putting money aside.''
 The recreational athletic leagues have asked that the next few fields be put on city park property where the leagues would have greater access -- and priority in scheduling -- than they have on school property, said Bob Pepi, a director of the Stamford Youth Soccer League. The city has committed to build the next turf field at West Beach Park, with construction expected to start next fall.
 Like Stamford, the Town of Oyster Bay, in Nassau County, has a much larger tax base than many suburban municipalities. 
 ''It used to be that the focus around here was build, build, build,'' said the town supervisor, John Venditto. ''Then, in the '90s, the focus changed, and people began to ask for more open space and recreational facilities for their children. We set out to make ourselves the recreational capital for the Northeast.''
 The town issued two $30 million environmental bonds, in 2001 and 2003, to preserve open space. Another, just as large, is being considered this year. In the past three years the town has built six and a half synthetic turf fields (the ''half'' is for peewee soccer), with four more full-sized fields expected to be completed by 2008. Money for the town's field conversions has come from the capital budget, the environmental bonds and two $250,000 grants from the New York Economic Development Program, administered by the State Dormitory Authority.
 Mr. Venditto is particularly proud of two synthetic turf fields that are on property that had been designated for commercial development.
 ''We don't need to build on all of our open space,'' Mr. Venditto said. ''A turf field is far more sorely needed than another big box store.''
 In Massapequa, in the Town of Oyster Bay, youth soccer and lacrosse travel teams play outside on the turf all winter, unless there is snow.
 ''When people ask me, 'Are these fields worth it?' '' Mr. Venditto said, ''I ask, 'What price do you place on the value of these fields in terms of our young people?' If even one of our children gets involved with activities in the park instead of on the street corner, it's invaluable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEP OFF THE GRASS -- A synthetic surface at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, is the Rye Men's Soccer Club's home field. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AND DON'T CHEW IT -- Artificial fields like the one above used by the Rye Men's Soccer Club at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, and the synthetic surface at John J. Burns Town Park in Massapequa, center photographs, have different maintenance requirements from natural grass, requiring some different prohibitions. In Bernardsville, N.J., below, a proposal to replace one of the high school's athletic fields with artificial turf has met with criticism from nearby homeowners who say the increased use that would result would diminish their quality of life. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); SUBURBS (68%); PARENTING (65%) Athletics and Sports; Artificial Turf ; Athletics and Sports

PERSON: Abby Gruen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



388 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; TRENDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Her Mission: Giving a Younger Generation Reasons to Stay on the Island

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LLOYD HARBOR 

 BODY:
NO ONE plays the shiny black grand piano anymore in Nancy Rauch Douzinas's living room here. Her daughters used to play it, Ms. Douzinas said, but they have moved off the Island.
 Eva Douzinas Veson, 31, lives in Boston, where she has a software business with her husband and their two children. Ruth Douzinas, 30, an environmental engineer, and her husband live in Manhattan with their 3-month-old.
Nancy Douzinas is president of the Rauch Foundation, a family philanthropy based in Garden City that for each of the last four yearshas produced the Long Island Index, a study of economic and social trends. Ms. Douzinas has been busy examining the Island's woes and the lack of ''stickiness'' that extends way beyond her own front door. The Island, Ms. Douzinas said, needs to be a place ''that you want to return to and that sticks the young people.'' 
 According to the foundation's latest report, ''In a Tough Spot: Jobs, Taxes and Affordability on Long Island,'' released last month, Ms. Douzinas's far-flung clan is not unusual. Sixtynine percent of people ages 18 to 34 are somewhat or very likely to leave the Island in the next five years, the report stated.
 Ms. Douzinas, 58, and her husband, Kostas, a retired engineer and part owner of a software business, raised their family in Port Washington. Their older daughter decided to move out of state because of the taxes, she says; their younger daughter didn't want the commuting life.
 They are ''the kind of talent you want to attract,'' Ms. Douzinas said. She hopes the Index will be a catalyst for change, stemming what the report called a ''brain drain'' as young people move off the Island.
 ''People are making other choices,'' Ms. Douzinas said. ''People are saying, 'What do you get for the money?' ''
 According to the data, which cost the Rauch Foundation $500,000 to $600,000 to compile, with help from Stony Brook and Hofstra universities, discontent is rising. More residents are finding it harder to pay their mortgages, with high taxes compounding the affordability issue. The Index showed that taxes are considered a ''very'' or ''extremely'' serious problem by 84 percent of Long Islanders. Houses are beyond the reach of many families, and rentals account for only 17 percent of housing units, according to the report, far less than in other parts of the region.
 As living costs rise and wages on the Island stagnate, Ms. Douzinas said the younger generation is asking, ''O.K., you get the good schools, but what else do you get?''
 Still, with 82 percent of those surveyed calling the Island a ''good'' or ''excellent'' place to live, prizing the natural beauty, the beaches, parks and water activities, along with proximity to Manhattan, Ms. Douzinas sees opportunity amid adversity.
 ''That gives you the platform to build a case, 'How do we bring about change?' '' she said. Ms. Douzinas is particularly interested in ''people working together in new ways.''
 She began working actively with the Rauch Foundation in 1990 after practicing for 20 years as a psychologist and family therapist. The philanthropy was founded in 1961 by her father and uncle, who made their fortune as owners of the Ideal Corporation, a clamp manufacturing business that is now part of Tomkins, a British conglomerate.
 The foundation's goals are three-pronged: giving disadvantaged children a better start in life, improving the natural environment and fostering leadership in the nonprofit sector. The Index, which may have a different focus next year, is its largest project.
 The report also found that the Island is falling short of its land preservation goals, preserving just over 2,200 acres a year, not enough to reach a state goal of protecting drinking water, which comes from underground aquifers.
 Planning is the Island's biggest challenge, Ms. Douzinas said.
 ''We haven't figured out how to have roots as a community,'' she said. ''Roots as a community means quality of life, thinking about the housing options and thinking about how you care for old people and young people.''
 But roots sometimes run deep. The Douzinases also lived in the city when their daughters were toddlers, then returned to the suburbs. 
 ''There is a shot that one of them will come back'' to live on the Island, Ms. Douzinas said of her daughters. Maybe, she mused, someday her grandchildren will play that grand piano.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ROOTED -- Nancy Rauch Douzinas sees high living costs driving people out. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); CHARITIES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: Rauch Foundation

PERSON: Nancy Rauch Douzinas; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



389 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2358 words

HEADLINE: Turf Wars

BYLINE: By ABBY GRUEN

 BODY:
MIDWAY through field hockey season last fall, K. J. Warren, the captain of the Mamaroneck High School varsity squad, would begin practices by arranging blue tarps on the field to protect it from impending rain. The team, which won a New York State championship in 2004, had already missed several important practices because of poor field conditions and could not afford to skip more.
 It was not lost on Ms. Warren that Mamaroneck's archrival, Lakeland High School in northern Westchester County, which went on to win the 2006 state championship, had been playing on a synthetic turf field for two years.
''When you have a synthetic turf field you know that you can practice every day,'' said Ms. Warren, a 17-year-old senior who is headed to Harvard, where she expects to continue playing field hockey. Her Mamaroneck team not only lost valuable practice time because of the condition of its own field, but was also forced to play some of its home games on borrowed fields a half-hour drive away. 
 To help meet the increasing demand for durable athletic fields as growing numbers of sports teams play ever-expanding seasons, hundreds of cities, towns and school districts around the region have installed costly synthetic turf surfaces in the last five years to replace grass. 
 Many communities that have not invested in artificially surfaced fields are now feeling pressure to follow suit. But not everyone is embracing synthetic turf, citing the considerable expense. For a multisport synthetic surface the size of a football field, the cost ranges from $600,000 to $1 million for installation, and up to $5,000 a year for maintenance, according to industry sources. In several communities, the debate over installing turf has pitted suburban parents and sports boosters against residents wary of higher taxes.
 Alison Paul, whose son plays football on grass at Sleepy Hollow High School in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., is a member of a parents' group now working with the school board on addressing overused fields, including the possibility of investing in synthetic turf. 
 ''It's like when computers came in and everyone had to get computers,'' Ms. Paul said. ''It raised the bar, and now when schools are getting turf fields it puts your kid at a disadvantage, because your kid is slugging it out in the mud while the other kids can play on turf in all weather.''
 The shortage of playing fields is a bigger problem in older cities and suburbs where development has left limited space for new fields. The oldest high schools often have only one or two fields, designed years ago for their football and baseball teams. 
 Since Title IX was enacted in 1972, the gender gap in sports has narrowed and high school girls' programs are mirroring the boys' in breadth. At the same time, there has been a boom in community recreational and travel leagues in soccer, field hockey, lacrosse, baseball, softball and football, with programs from the peewee through adult levels all competing for field time. In some cases, teams want to practice throughout the year, which is impossible on most grass fields.
 Some taxpayers, particularly in New Jersey, are saying enough is enough. Two weeks ago, voters in Glen Ridge, in Essex County, soundly rejected a $6.9 million bond issue that would have included $2 million to replace two existing fields with synthetic turf.
 ''It became a contentious battle over not just turf, but who controls the community -- how we want to be taxed, and what we value as a community,'' said Kit Schackner, 55, a founder of Glen Ridge Votes, a taxpayer group organized late last year to oppose the bond issue. ''Property taxes have risen in six years by 47 percent. A smaller bond ordinance for less -- just the necessary improvements -- would have passed without a whimper.''
 Similar bond proposals that included money for synthetic fields were turned down in the last year in Irvington, N.Y.; Babylon on Long Island; and Verona, N.J. Then there are poorer cities that are not even considering synthetic turf.
 In Greenwich and Westport, however, booster groups for youth sports have raised millions of dollars in the past two years to supplement town money for their first turf conversions. 
 The popularity of synthetic turf fields at the high school level began growing in the late 1990s when the industry started experimenting with a surface made from shag nylon fibers roughly two inches high, saturated with an ''infill'' of rubber granules, sometimes mixed with sand. Unlike previous synthetic surfaces, which were basically heavy nylon carpeting over a pad, the new turf was not hard or abrasive, said Elliot Levine, president of Sprinturf, a manufacturer based in Wayne, Pa.
 ''My concerns for safety, as far as injuries, are drastically changed,'' said Dennis Robinson, the athletic director at Lakeland High School in Shrub Oak, N.Y. ''If a student falls, it's a cushion.''
 Last year, 850 synthetic turf fields were installed in the United States, according to industry sources, who estimate there are more than 150 fields in New Jersey, 150 in New York and at least 30 in Connecticut. 
 Supporters of artificial turf are not limited to youth sports groups. On a recent Wednesday night at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, the Rye Men's Soccer Club was scrimmaging on a two-year-old synthetic turf field. With snow in the forecast and puddles turning to ice in the parking lot, the men, from 30 to 60 years old, were still racing up and down the field.
 ''This is fantastic,'' said Brian O'Gallagher, 50, of Rye, who has been playing in the club's semiweekly pickup games for six years. ''Because the strands are of varying lengths you don't get burned when you slide. You don't get shin splints. We haven't had any knee injuries. '' 
 The field was installed with money from the Westchester County Legacy Program, an open-space preservation fund, which has committed close to $22 million for 15 turf fields over the past six years. In the Village of Larchmont, N.Y., where Ms. Warren plays field hockey, the school district, three municipalities and five sports leagues are now working together with Fields for Kids, a coalition of volunteers, to begin the process of finding money and space for both grass and synthetic fields.
 ''The truth is that anything we do is more effective if we do it on an intermunicipal basis,'' said Elizabeth N. Feld, the mayor of Larchmont. ''Otherwise we end up cannibalizing each other. We'd be tapping the same private donor pool. We'd be taxing the same base.''
 Larchmont has taken a first step toward installing a synthetic field by applying for a $2.5 million grant from the county Legacy Program. The money would be spent for improvements to Flint Park, where the high school field hockey team plays, including a new synthetic turf field. Fields for Kids has also promised to help raise up to $1.5 million in private donations to restore additional grass fields and waterfront in the park.
 But the county's future emphasis will be on turf instead of grass, said Joseph A. Stout, commissioner of parks, recreation and conservation, who oversees the Legacy Program.
 ''We won't get involved in a project if it's not turf, because the durability of the fields is light-years ahead of grass,'' Mr. Stout said. ''You can play on them every day, all day long, and they don't wear out. They cost more upfront to build, but maintenance costs are much less.''
 In New Jersey, the state-run Green Acres Program, administered by the Department of Environmental Protection, provided more than $2.8 million for six synthetic turf fields in Bergen and Essex Counties -- in Fort Lee, Hackensack, Lodi, Maplewood, and Brookdale County Park in Bloomfield and Montclair. High schools are not eligible for state financing since the fields are not being preserved for conservation, so some communities are issuing bonds by referendum or getting private donations.
 Last year, in Verona, an Essex County town of 13,000, a parents' group, the Turf Field Fund Committee, was able to raise $50,000 in private donations over 10 weeks, mostly through a raffle. But that was not enough to sway voters to approve a $1.6 million referendum to add turf and lighting to the local high school field.
 Carlo Calabrese, 51, a lifelong resident of Verona, whose three children have all played sports at the high school, said, ''We're going to do our best to try now to look for private donations.'' 
 The school district's budget is so tight that field maintenance has been deferred for four or five years, making conditions even worse, said Steven Spardel, 45, president of the school board. 
 ''Our labor costs and our health care costs increase faster than our whole budget can increase,'' said Mr. Spardel, who works in the pharmaceutical industry. ''We're not going to fire a math teacher so we can grow grass. They should throw us out of office if we made that decision.'' 
 As a football coach for his son's recreational league team in Summit, N.J., Dean Geibel, a real estate developer, was aware of a shortage of fields in his town. So, when the city council began exploring turf as a solution, he volunteered to pay half the $900,000 cost of converting one of the fields to synthetic grass. The city paid the other half, and the new field opened in time for the 2005 football season.
 ''I can't tell you how many times people come up to me and say thank you,'' said Mr. Geibel, 48.
 In Bernardsville, N.J., a group of parents have been trying to raise private money and work with local officials to address concerns about the overuse of the one high school field and a handful of town-owned fields.
 ''We saw that neighboring Basking Ridge was able to put in turf by raising half the money privately, and the other half with a loan secured by contracts with local youth athletic leagues who pay $5,000 to $10,000 a year to have access,'' said Doug Smoot, 46, a father of two varsity high school soccer players and a founding member of the group, which has raised $100,000 so far. The goal is for $800,000 to be raised privately this year. 
 ''But when we approached the school board, they said, we don't want 100-year-old Bernardsville High School, located in a quaint, charming neighborhood, to be busy with games and lights until 9:30 or 10 at night,'' Mr. Smoot said. To address that concern, the parents are proposing limited use of lights.
 In 2004, in Westport, a group of volunteers representing various sports groups in town got together to raise private money for new synthetic fields.
 After soliciting $1.5 million from 220 private donors, the group, the Westport Field of Dreams, was able to install two turf fields in time for the fall 2006 sports season. Each of the athletic groups, including the high school football booster club, the soccer and field hockey associations and the Police Athletic League, committed to raising $100,000. The committee, which is in the process of raising $860,000 for a third field, is expecting the Town of Westport to put in $700,000 for a fourth field, with both to be ready by fall 2007.
 ''We knew we had to install synthetic turf to be at a competitive level with other communities in the state,'' said the Field of Dreams chairman, Dan De Vito, who is also the operations supervisor for Westport's parks and recreation.
 The public high school in Greenwich, one of the largest in the state, has installed four new turf fields in the past two years.
 A booster club, the Greenwich High School Sports Foundation, raised a quarter of the $4 million cost of the fields, and the balance was paid by the Town of Greenwich through its capital budget, said Anthony Byrne, director of facilities for the Greenwich School District. Field scheduling is handled by the town, but school teams have first priority.
 In Stamford, the first three synthetic turf fields were installed at the two public high schools for about $3 million, and were paid for out of the city's capital budget, said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy. ''Every year we are putting money aside.''
 The recreational athletic leagues have asked that the next few fields be put on city park property where the leagues would have greater access -- and priority in scheduling -- than they have on school property, said Bob Pepi, a director of the Stamford Youth Soccer League. The city has committed to build the next turf field at West Beach Park, with construction expected to start next fall.
 Like Stamford, the Town of Oyster Bay, in Nassau County, N.Y., has a much larger tax base than many suburban municipalities. 
 ''It used to be that the focus around here was build, build, build,'' said the town supervisor, John Venditto. ''Then, in the '90s, the focus changed, and people began to ask for more open space and recreational facilities for their children. We set out to make ourselves the recreational capital for the Northeast.''
 The town issued two $30 million environmental bonds, in 2001 and 2003, to preserve open space. Another, just as large, is being considered this year. In the past three years the town has built six and a half synthetic turf fields (the ''half'' is for peewee soccer), with four more full-sized fields expected to be completed by 2008. Money for the town's field conversions has come from the capital budget, the environmental bonds and two $250,000 grants from the New York Economic Development Program, administered by the State Dormitory Authority.
 Mr. Venditto is particularly proud of two synthetic turf fields that are on property that had been designated for commercial development.
 ''We don't need to build on all of our open space,'' Mr. Venditto said. ''A turf field is far more sorely needed than another big box store.''
 In Massapequa, in the Town of Oyster Bay, youth soccer and lacrosse travel teams play outside on the turf all winter, unless there is snow.
 ''When people ask me, 'Are these fields worth it?' '' Mr. Venditto said, ''I ask, 'What price do you place on the value of these fields in terms of our young people?' If even one of our children gets involved with activities in the park instead of on the street corner, it's invaluable.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: KEEP OFF THE GRASS -- A synthetic surface at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains is the Rye Men's Soccer Club's home field. (Photographs by Alan Zale for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AND DON'T CHEW IT -- Artificial fields like the one above used by the Rye Men's Soccer Club at Saxon Woods Park in White Plains, and the synthetic surface at John J. Burns Town Park in Massapequa, N.Y., center photographs, have different maintenance requirements from natural grass, requiring some different prohibitions. In Bernardsville, N.J., below, a proposal to replace one of the high school's athletic fields with artificial turf has met with criticism from nearby homeowners who say the increased use that would result would diminish their quality of life. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)
(Photo by Alan Zale for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (71%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); SUBURBS (68%); PARENTING (65%) Athletics and Sports; Artificial Turf ; Athletics and Sports

PERSON: Abby Gruen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



390 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com.STATE OF CONNECTICUTHartford Hearing on general permits of diversion for consumption. 
Wednesday at 1 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037. Stratford Hearing on a permit for Harborside Associates. Thursday at 6:30 p.m. Stratford Town Hall, 2725 Main Street. (860) 424-3037. FAIRFIELD COUNTYBethel Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Bethel Board of Education. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501. Brookfield Economic Development Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Brookfield Town Hall, 100 Pocono Road. (203) 775-7300. Danbury Zoning Board of Appeals. Thursday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500. Darien Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 6 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300. Monroe Planning and Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Monroe Town Hall, 7 Fan Hill Road. (203) 452-5417. New Fairfield Permanent Building Committee. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. New Fairfield Town Hall, 4 Brush Hill Road. (203) 312-5616. Redding Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002. Ridgefield Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700. Weston School Building Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Weston Town Hall, 56 Norfield Road. (203) 222-2656. Wilton Inland Wetlands Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Wilton Town Hall, 238 Danbury Road. (203) 563-0100. HARTFORD COUNTYAvon Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300. Avon Zoning Board of Appeals. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Avon Town Hall, 60 West Main Street. (860) 409-4300. Simsbury Culture, Parks and Recreation Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200. LITCHFIELD COUNTYBarkhamsted Board of Finance. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285. Bethlehem Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Bethlehem Town Hall, 36 Main Street South. (203) 266-7510. Falls Village Historical Society. Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707. Plymouth Board of Finance. Thursday at 7 p.m. Plymouth Town Hall, 80 Main Street. (860) 585-4001. Roxbury Historic District Commission. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Roxbury Town Hall, 29 North Street. (860) 354-9938. Salisbury Special selectman budget meeting. Tuesday at 2 p.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182. Washington Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 4:30 p.m. Washington Town Hall, 2 Bryan Plaza. (860) 868-2259. Watertown Town Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Watertown High School, 324 French Street. (860) 945-5230. Woodbury Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144. MIDDLESEX COUNTYEssex Zoning Board of Appeals. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Essex Town Hall, 29 West Avenue. (860) 767-4340. Portland Economic Development Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Portland Town Hall, 33 East Main Street. (860) 342-6715. NEW HAVEN COUNTYCheshire Inland Wetlands Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Cheshire Town Hall, 84 South Main Street. (203) 271-6660. Woodbridge Inland Wetlands Agency. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400. NEW LONDON COUNTYGroton Historic District Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Groton Town Hall, 45 Fort Hill Road. (860) 441-6640. Montville Planning and Zoning Commission workshop. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311. TOLLAND COUNTYAndover Capital Improvement Planning Committee. Thursday at 7 p.m. Old Firehouse, Center Street. (860) 742-7305. Tolland Zoning Board of Appeals. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600. WINDHAM COUNTYAshford Board of Finance. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401. Danielson Conservation Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Killingly Town Hall, 172 Main Street. (860) 779-5300.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (75%); WETLANDS (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



391 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Airlines at La Guardia Fight Bush Administration Proposal to Auction Off Landing Rights

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
The Bush administration wants to auction off all landing rights at La Guardia Airport, hoping to use the free market to improve sharing of a scarce resource. But the airlines that land there say the plan amounts to government expropriation of their property and will lead to higher ticket prices. 
 The debate resembles a dispute over rent control, with the airlines arguing that they should be allowed to continue to buy, sell or sub-let to each other their landing rights, known as slots. They will probably fight the plan in Congress. 
But the federal government says that the slots are a public resource, and that regulations should not give too much advantage to the airlines that have had them for years. The Federal Aviation Administration asserts that auctioning the slots will ensure that they are distributed in a way that will be better for consumers. 
 The dispute has been developing since 2000, when Congress passed a law intended to gradually lift decades-old limits on traffic at La Guardia and other busy airports, by phasing out so-called slot rules. 
 But when the Transportation Department began approving new flights to La Guardia in 2000, the airlines added 300 a day, on top of the existing 1,100, causing the average delay for all arriving flights to grow to 38 minutes from 16 minutes. And planes leaving La Guardia late arrived at their destinations late, so the delays rippled through the national system.
 ''It's insane, the demand out there,'' said Pasquale DiFulco, a spokesman for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport.
 La Guardia handled 400,000 flights last year, compared with 378,000 for Kennedy International, although La Guardia is 560 acres, compared with 5,000 acres at Kennedy. Kennedy has two sets of parallel runways; LaGuardia has two runways, and they cross each other, so they cannot be used simultaneously.
 To fix the problem in 2000, the government stepped in with a series of ''temporary'' limits on flights into La Guardia, which have changed slightly but are still in force. But last week, the administration proposed maintaining a cap on the total number of flights and auctioning the slots, as part of a complicated bill on a new national financing mechanism for air traffic control.
 Marion Blakey, the F.A.A. administrator, said the purpose of the auction was ''using the market to ensure we're making the most of this very popular resource in New York.'' 
 The language in the administration's bill is not specific, but Nancy D. LoBue, the deputy assistant administrator for aviation policy, said that the auction would be done in a way that gives new competitors a chance of getting slots at La Guardia. 
 The bill calls for the Port Authority to run the auction. Mr. DiFulco said his agency might also try writing provisions into the gate leases or instituting congestion charges, requiring airlines to pay more at peak periods. La Guardia, however, has very few off-peak periods; most of the day it is near its limit, defined as 75 scheduled flights per hour, plus 6 nonairline flights. The airlines dislike the nonairline flights, and argue with the precise overall limit.
 And they dispute the authority of the F.A.A. to tinker with control of the slots. 
 For example, last August the F.A.A. said it wanted a rule at La Guardia that would prevent airlines from obtaining monopoly power over certain routes. 
 But the airlines say that since their business was deregulated in 1978, the F.A.A. should not be in that business. The F.A.A.'s role should be limited to safety and efficiency, the airlines say.
 They also assert ownership rights. Delta, for example, says it paid Pan Am for slots when Pan Am ceased operations, and then upgraded the Marine Air Terminal at La Guardia to handle its planes.
 But the airlines are not united in this view. The Air Carrier Association of America, which represents small carriers, complained that at the moment, small carriers have only 20 slots, while ''many legacy carriers have that many slots in single markets.'' The group also complained that some big carriers were hogging slots, by flying many small planes to major hubs, when they should be making fewer trips with bigger planes, opening slots to their competitors. 
 At the F.A.A., Nan Shellabarger, the director of aviation policy and plans, said there was broad consensus that some controls were necessary, and that Congress had ''tolerated'' the F.A.A. stepping in to reimpose landing quotas in 2000, and thus was likely to approve some system now. She said that the Secretary of Transportation had authority beyond the F.A.A. administrator to regulate flights. 
 An auction, F.A.A. officials say, would not allocate landing rights on a purely economic basis. Just as the current system does, it would probably include provisions to encourage service to rural areas, since companies flying small planes to those places might be less able to compete in bidding against airlines flying bigger planes. 
 Sametta Barnett, the director of government affairs for Delta, said that when that provision was first enforced, ''we weren't thrilled with it.'' But now, she said, ''Our bread-and-butter is small communities. We're glad to do it.'' 
 The F.A.A.'s proposal is a small section of a huge bill introduced by the Bush administration to change the way travelers pay for air traffic control. That proposal faces tough questioning in Congress, but some action is likely, because the existing taxes expire on Sept. 30.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about a dispute over a Bush administration plan to auction off all landing rights at La Guardia Airport referred incorrectly in some copies to one aspect of the plan. The administration has proposed maintaining a cap on the total number of flights into La Guardia -- not lifting it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The government says auctioning the landing slots at La Guardia will ensure that they are distributed in a way that will benefit consumers. (Photo by Matt Campbell/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); AIR FARES (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); RENT CONTROL (77%); APPROVALS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BUDGETS (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; La Guardia Airport (NYC); Auctions; Airports; United States; Law and Legislation ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Airlines and Airplanes; Air Traffic Control; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Aviation Administration

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: Matthew Wald; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



392 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Mill Towns Of Connecticut Lose Factories, And Way of Life

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: SEYMOUR, Conn. 

 BODY:
Victor Silva, 50, has lived in Ansonia, a town just south of here, all his life. He knew he would work in a factory, smoothing out metal or loading trucks. He never expected getting laid off three times as one struggling factory after another scaled back or shut down entirely.
 Now, he can recite the trajectory as if it were gospel.
 First it was Seymour Specialty, which shut down after it could not make a profit on sheet metal and brass. A sprawling supermarket has since taken its place in the center of town. 
 He moved to Ansonia Copper and Brass, a bustling factory that he thought would do well for decades. But four years ago Mr. Silva was one of about 100 workers let go. A few weeks ago, the company announced it would lay off 85 more employees.
 Most recently, Mr. Silva came to the New Haven Copper Company, which gave him a solid job for years. But next month, New Haven Copper will shut its doors, making Mr. Silva and nearly 50 workers the latest victims of Connecticut's declining manufacturing industry.
 ''I am getting too old for this,'' Mr. Silva told a couple of buddies the other day, a whisper of exasperation in his voice. ''I have to find something that I can stick with. I need something stable.'' 
 Mr. Silva's story is a familiar one in towns across the central valley of Connecticut as one locally owned manufacturing plant after another closes, taking jobs that in many cases have been in the same family for generations. 
 The state estimates that in the last decade alone, the manufacturing economy has shrunk by nearly a fourth, to 193,900 people with manufacturing jobs from 248,500. The ripples can be felt throughout the region where shells of former factories dot the banks of the Naugatuck River. 
 The local steel workers union has seen its membership shrink to nearly half its size in the last decade, to 1,400 from 2,600.
 Trade schools, where hard-working fathers sent their sons to learn the family business, have been replaced by centers for the elderly and office buildings. 
 And the local forklift repairman, who at one time had several fleets working on dozens of machines a day, now considers himself lucky to get a dozen machines in the shop in a week. 
 But the disappearance of the factories may do more to alter the face of the local culture than it is doing to the area's economy.
 Some of the more enterprising towns have kept their economy intact by taking advantage of city dwellers in search of weekend getaway spots, second homes or even a new place to put down roots. 
 The result has in many cases transformed vacant mills into kitschy antique stores and quirky art shops. And some larger towns -- once the hubs of brass, copper and wire plants -- have steadily replaced their aging and abandoned factories with strips of big box discount stores. 
 So it is in Seymour, a middle-class town of 15,000 midway between New Haven and Waterbury.
 New Haven Copper opened in 1848, three years before Seymour was officially incorporated, and for decades it had its ups and downs -- at its height employing nearly 150 workers -- as it was passed from one wealthy businessman to another. But through the decades, it cranked out material for devices that monitor underwater activity, and later for cables that contain electrical wiring. 
 Today, city leaders hope to replace the copper plant in the center of town with a restaurant or two and maybe a Target or a Kohl's or some other discount department store. 
 ''Good, bad or indifferent, it's just not going to be the same,'' said Robert J. Koskelowski, the first selectman of the town, in a phrase he repeats often these days. ''It's not, and there's nothing we can do besides accept it and make the best of it.'' 
 The economics behind the erosion of factories and the changing face of Connecticut's mill towns is relatively simple. As the cost of material went up, conglomerates swooped in and bought out the small shops. But in many cases manufacturing costs remained too high to be competitive in a free-trade world, so the companies chose to move their shops to the South or overseas. 
 In the face of this, Mr. Silva can sound utterly optimistic. He hopes to get a job driving a long-haul rig, where he says he can earn more than the $47,000 he made last year by working as much as 20 hours' overtime a week. 
 Others are equally hopeful, partly because of money the state and federal governments are giving laid-off workers for retraining. David Freeman, a union leader at New Haven Copper, says he plans to use the $23,000 he will receive to pay for classes in electronics. 
 ''I'll make more money, I'll be fine,'' Mr. Freeman said. ''All these guys will be fine. That's not the point. That's not the only thing.'' 
 For Mr. Freeman and others like him, it is the changing lifestyle that is most threatening. 
 As Mr. Freeman and Mr. Silva sit over a couple of light beers at Zois Pizza across the street from New Haven Copper on South Main Street, they spend just as much time complaining about having to find jobs in a neighboring town as they do bemoaning the loss of jobs to workers overseas. 
 ''It used to be that my father and his father worked together,'' Mr. Freeman said, pointing to Mr. Silva. ''So they knew what was going on with us. They saw each other all time, they walked to work and knew where to check on us. Now, we'll probably have to drive for an hour to get a job. And that means a guy in that town isn't going to get the job either. Nothing is simple anymore.'' 
 Across town, Scott DeGeorge, 45, still lives simply. He walks to the Housatonic Wire factory, where he is the last employee in the plant these days.
 His father and his grandfather worked in the same building, yet he knows he will be the last generation in his family to work there. 
 ''All the guys I worked with aren't doing this anymore,'' Mr. DeGeorge said, looking down at his hands caked with grease. ''They moved to construction, service, whatever they could find. This is what I knew I would do. It's just what everybody did.'' 
 Alex Budzinski, whose father started the business 36 years ago, is selling the brick building, which will be converted into high-priced condominiums for people from New York and other cities in Connecticut eager to find a place in a safe, small town. 
 Yes, says Mr. Budzinski, who has seen the number of customers plummet for more than a decade, it will be disappointing to see another factory sentenced to the history books. But the numbers -- and the offer of millions of dollars -- made the decision for him. 
 ''We all kind of wake up, look around us and see how things are changing,'' he said. ''First the textile plants were gone, then the wires were gone. But that's what happens, people move out, people move in and the place changes.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alex Budzinski, above, at Housatonic Wire in Seymour, Conn., is selling the brick building, which will be converted into condominiums. Mr. Budzinski's father started the business 36 years ago. At far left, Scott DeGeorge, the last employee at the plant where his father and his grandfather once worked. At left, Mike LaCava, left, and Victor Silva work at New Haven Copper Company, which will close soon. (Photographs by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. 33)
The New Haven Copper Company, the latest plant to close. (Photo by Todd Heisler/The New York Times)(pg. 34)Chart: ''Shrinking Factory Jobs''The manufacturing industry in New Haven County, Conn., has substantially declined in recent decades, giving way to other industries, like retail and professional services.Employment in New Haven County's top three industriesGraph tracks employment in manufacturing, wholesale and retail and professional services since 1900.Percent of all employment in New Haven CountyGraph tracks percentage of all employment in manufacturing, wholesale and retail and professional services since 1900.Notes: Data for 1960 is not available. Data for 1980 does not include the towns of Ansonia, Derby and Seymour.(Sources by Queens College Department of Sociology
 Census Bureau)(pg. 34)Map of Connecticut highlighting Seymour: Shells of former factories dot the central valley of Connecticut. (pg. 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); RELOCATIONS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); MEN (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (60%) Metals and Minerals; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Labor; Wire and Cable; Apparel; Relocation of Business; Metals and Minerals; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: ANSONIA COPPER & BRASS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3315 STEEL WIREDRAWING & STEEL NAILS & SPIKES (57%)

PERSON: Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Connecticut ; Seymour (Conn); New Haven County (Conn); Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



393 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Listening For Clues On Spending

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A CRUCIAL indicator of the economy's health is consumer spending, and a crucial indicator of that is the money earned by companies that cater to consumers' needs and whims. Several big retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores, the biggest, will report their earnings this week, and the direction of the stock market may hinge on their results. 
 ''Anything that sheds light on the consumer is something the market needs to know,'' said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup Investment Research. ''Retailers talking about their earnings outlooks for fiscal '07 will either further cloud the story or provide a little clarity.''
His forecast is for continued cloudiness, not so much because of what the retailers say as what investors hear. Unless the results of Wal-Mart, J. C. Penney, Abercrombie & Fitch and the others scheduled to report this week are indisputably better or worse than analysts expect, investors are likely to interpret them in ways that conform to their market outlook, Mr. Levkovich said.
 ''If you're a bear, you'll find things to be nervous about,'' he said, ''and if you're a bull, you'll find things to make you feel better.''
 Mr. Levkovich aligns himself with the second group.
 ''Generally speaking, the U.S. consumer remains in relatively good health,'' he said. ''The key driver for consumer spending is change in disposable income, which is heavily influenced by jobs.''
 Unemployment remains low and job creation strong, even if some recent reports showed fewer new jobs than economists had forecast. In such a climate, all that is needed to keep consumers heading to the stores is material desire, and there seems to be no letup in that.
 ''The idea of a spent-out consumer kind of defies economic reality,'' Mr. Levkovich said. It defies psychological and technological reality, too. Neat stuff keeps being invented, and the thirst to acquire it never goes away.
 ''It used to be that a 26-inch TV screen was as big as you could get,'' he said, thinking of a time not so many years back. Now, he added, if the screen is ''anything less than 37 inches, you're practically in the Stone Age.''
 Deborah Weinswig, Citi's retailing analyst, recently raised her earnings estimates for several retailers that are scheduled to report earnings this week and next for the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31, including Federated Department Stores and Penney. (Closing the books on Jan. 31 is an industry custom intended to place the holiday shopping season in a single quarter of the fiscal year.) 
 Her forecasts for the majors include $2.85 a share for Wal-Mart, $3.17 for Target, $4.88 for Penney and $2.19 for Federated.DATA WATCH -- All of that spending has apparently done little to fuel inflation. A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts an increase of 0.2 percent in the Consumer Price Index for January, excluding volatile food and energy items. That report is due on Wednesday, the same day that the Index of Leading Economic Indicators is forecast to show a 0.2 percent January gain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); BONDS (73%); JOB CREATION (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); MACY'S INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); M (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



394 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3607 words

HEADLINE: A Media Mogul Tries Remote Control

BYLINE: By RON STODGHILL

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

 BODY:
ROBERT L. JOHNSON, the black billionaire, is ringside at a charity boxing match here, awash in a sea of white businessmen. A low-key deal maker, he prefers intimate dinners with the likes of Bill Clinton, Harvey Weinstein or John Malone. But tonight he has joined members of the South's ultra-elite for a quasi-frat party, a swaggering, testosterone-fueled evening featuring hundreds of tuxedo-clad honchos feted with steak and martinis and greeted by scantily-clad hostesses. Mr. Johnson takes to the slugfest as the night wears on, rolling his shoulders to dodge imaginary blows, as if he himself were up against the ropes.
 Which, perhaps, he is.
Mr. Johnson, who founded and then sold the Black Entertainment Television network to Viacom for $3 billion in 2000, is working hard these days to appear as more than just an outsider in Charlotte, where he also happens to own the beleaguered local National Basketball Association franchise, the Bobcats. So far, though, that is pretty much how the locals view him. There may be many reasons why the label of outsider clings to Mr. Johnson, but one easy explanation is that he rarely gives the Bobcats hands-on treatment. 
 As Mr. Johnson tries to recast himself as a mainstream business mogul, his calendar has become very crowded, thanks to a high-powered push to start and buy several companies. That spree has produced a sprawling portfolio of properties, including a hedge fund, a private equity firm, a chain of more than 100 high-end hotels, several commercial banks and savings institutions, a film company and several gambling ventures. 
 And however loudly each of those businesses may clamor for his attention, however boisterously the communities they serve may want more face time with the boss, Mr. Johnson is in no rush to soothe their nerves.
 ''I am not an operational executive anymore,'' he says, impatience creeping into his voice. ''I run a holding company, and my role is that of a rancher, running herd over a field of cattle.
 ''It's not just one ball in the air for me now, but lots of them,'' he adds. ''This is my second act.''
 As Mr. Johnson zips across the business landscape, trying to defy the aphorism that there are no second acts in American life, his handling of the Bobcats, which he bought in 2003 for $300 million, may provide a crucial litmus test. Mr. Johnson, the first African-American owner in a league populated by African-American stars, is intent on using his wealth and celebrity to break down economic and cultural walls that have historically marginalized black entrepreneurs, and to give black executives corner offices in a broad range of industries. So he sees a successful run as the head of a professional sports franchise as an emblematic challenge. 
 For all of that noble sense of purpose, though, Mr. Johnson is a famously flinty loner. His go-it-alone attitude has done little to soften his image among some here as a person simply looking to milk a Southern boomtown. That image, along with a reluctance to pour more money into the Bobcats, has not endeared him to local fans -- helping to undermine his fledgling hoops franchise.
 The basketball legend Michael Jordan, who joined the Bobcats last summer as a minority partner and manager of operations, attributes Mr. Johnson's strains to the rigors of the learning curve. ''Bob is one of the most sophisticated businessmen that I know, but being that he didn't have any experience in this business, he may have been more tight with the dollars than he should have been,'' he says. ''But Bob knows now that he's got to spend, that being successful in professional sports requires a whole different approach. Like me, he's very competitive and knows how to win.''
 Mr. Johnson's attendance at the charity boxing match last month was a good-will gesture toward a city that has rebuffed him by considering him an absentee owner, a carpetbagger of sorts, and labeling the Bobcats as scrubs. Ever indefatigable, he says he has plenty of time to change all that.
 ''We're still early in this process,'' says Mr. Johnson, whose team has a record and attendance that rank near the bottom of the league. ''Nobody loses money on an N.B.A. franchise, and I will certainly not be the first.''
 BOB JOHNSON has spent at least half his 60 years as a pre-eminent force in African-American pop culture, a shrewd backstage operator who tied a bow around black celebrity and converted urban music, fashion and comedy into the cash cow called BET.
 While running BET, which he founded in 1980, Mr. Johnson found himself routinely criticized by blacks for showing racy music videos day and night instead of creating original programs with socially uplifting themes. In Mr. Johnson's pragmatic view, though, music videos were a television executive's dream: they drew huge audiences and were cheap to put on the air. He reminded naysayers that the ''E'' in BET stood for ''entertainment,'' not ''education'' or ''enlightenment.''
 ''My tombstone will read: 'This is the guy who aired rap videos,' '' Mr. Johnson says. ''But you know how I deal with that? I put it where it belongs, which is in the pretty-much-irrelevant category.''
 Many blacks lashed out at Mr. Johnson again when he sold BET to Viacom, a mainstream corporate buyer. Mr. Johnson, who has blended a surgeon's emotional detachment with an accountant's fixation on the bottom line throughout his career, seems unaffected by those barbs as well. He says he is aware that some consider him miserly and emotionally disengaged, but he shrugs that off as the price of success. 
 ''I never saw myself as running a family business for family benefit; I always wanted to create businesses that were built on maximizing shareholder value,'' Mr. Johnson says. ''And my philosophy has always been predicated on the fact that talented African-Americans ought to be given an opportunity to create real wealth in this country, and that white Americans have to allow us to get onto the starting blocks.''
 For Mr. Johnson, born in Mississippi in 1946 as the ninth of 10 children, the starting block was a grimy factory basement in Freeport, Ill. His mother and father had jobs at the Burgess Battery plant in Freeport, and Mr. Johnson worked there as a maintenance worker one summer while attending the University of Illinois at Champaign. According to ''The Billion Dollar BET,'' an unauthorized account of Mr. Johnson's career by the journalist Brett Pulley, Mr. Johnson clashed often with his superiors and was fired. The boot, though, came with some advice. ''If you're going to get a job, you better work for yourself,'' his supervisor told him, according to the book. ''Working for other people just doesn't seem to be your cup of tea because you've got a unique way of how you want to do things.'' 
 After graduation from the University of Illinois, where he met his wife, Sheila Crump (they divorced in 2002), Mr. Johnson studied public administration at Princeton. The couple moved to Washington in the early 1970s, a time when the civil rights movement was opening the door to more black voices in the media. Mr. Johnson worked in various public affairs posts before becoming a lobbyist in 1976 for a cable television trade group.
 One of the group's board members was John C. Malone, who was in the early stages of turning his company, Tele-Communications Inc., into one of the nation's largest cable companies. Mr. Malone and other cable operators were scrambling for programming that would give them an edge over traditional network television giants. Mr. Johnson approached Mr. Malone with the idea of creating a cable channel that catered to audiences in cities with large black populations. 
 ''I was like Johnny Appleseed back then, buying up lots of things that fit our model because we needed programming,'' Mr. Malone says. ''It was great that Bob's idea had a positive social element to it, but it also fit my model.'' 
 Mr. Malone jumped at the idea, and in 1979 invested $500,000 for a 20 percent stake in the newly formed BET. Over the next decade, BET slowly gained traction with black audiences, gradually expanding its air time from a few hours a day to a full weekly schedule, recruiting major advertisers and lining up other strategic partners like the HBO unit of Time Inc. BET's gospel programs, black college sports, and black news and music gave the channel a solid niche. 
 ''We were the unicorn,'' Mr. Johnson says. ''People were surprised we existed.''
 In 1991, Mr. Johnson took BET public, making the network the first black-owned company on the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Johnson retained 56 percent of the voting power in a company with a market value of $472 million, according to Mr. Pulley's book. Despite that success, BET had doubters. ''I think the public was very cynical about a black-run and -controlled business,'' Mr. Malone says. ''There were a lot of bodies in the cable industry on the side of the road. The attitude was, 'Let's give it a shot, but I don't expect it to be successful.' ''
 TO continue attracting larger black audiences without huge investments in content, Mr. Johnson began to rely more heavily on music videos. After all, with ad rates substantially lower than those of rivals like MTV or VH1, the notion of creating high-minded original programming was not financially feasible, Mr. Johnson says. But by the early 1990s, gangsta rap music was gaining cultural prominence and its messages were edgier -- and more rife with images of sex and violence -- than the R&B music that BET had offered earlier. Many adults were offended, but young viewers loved the stuff.
 ''Bob took a cold view in responding to the market, and the fact was he just didn't have the financial muscle of an MTV,'' says the media consultant Willis Smith, whose firm in Durham, N.C., specializes in black television programming. ''He could not afford to offer what many viewers wanted from him. But in the end, he kept BET profitable regardless of what people have said about the quality of his programming.''
 Mr. Johnson's most vocal critic was the young black syndicated cartoonist Aaron McGruder, whose ''Boondocks'' comic strip ran in 250 newspapers nationwide and focused on a couple of brothers transplanted to the suburbs from their inner-city neighborhood. He routinely lampooned BET. One of his most controversial strips featured a woman's round, nearly nude backside, with text that, among other things, said: ''In order to follow the fine example set by Mr. Johnson, we present to you, the reader, in the spirit of black uplift -- a black woman's gyrating rear end.'' 
 Some newspapers dropped the strip, and it ignited a public spat between Mr. McGruder and Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson declines to discuss the matter, and Mr. McGruder, who no longer writes the strip, was unavailable for comment.
 By the late 1990s, having regained complete control of BET for himself and Mr. Malone through a stock buyback, Mr. Johnson was ready to move on. The opportunity came when Sumner M. Redstone, the Viacom chairman, offered to buy him out for $3 billion in 2000. 
 ''A lot of black people were hurt when he sold BET because we have this history where our entrepreneurs are expected to be emotionally attached to their companies,'' says Alfred Edmond Jr., editor in chief of Black Enterprise magazine. ''But Bob Johnson has never been one to personalize his relationship to his companies. They are just assets to him, and he prides himself on being able to drive up their value.''
 However much Mr. Johnson has sought to burnish and enlarge his reputation, his ownership of the Bobcats has resurrected some old criticisms. Like television, the basketball business is driven by ratings, advertisers and talent -- and so far Mr. Johnson has stumbled, in large part over issues that have haunted him before: customer complaints about product quality, and accusations of a lack of commitment to the community. 
 ''There has been a feeling here that Bob -- and he is trying to do better -- is this rich dude from Washington, D.C., and comes down and buys a franchise and doesn't even show up here much, not even for games,'' says Felix Sabates, a Charlotte businessman and minority shareholder in the Bobcats. But he expects Mr. Johnson will be successful. 
 Mark Packer, a local radio host, says: ''In a city like Charlotte, it is important for fans to see the owner, and we don't see much of Bob Johnson. But even more than that, the product that he is putting on the floor is an inferior product. Over the two and half years he has had this team, he simply hasn't spent enough money to put a winner on the floor.''
 The criticism does not end there. Scott Fowler, a columnist at The Charlotte Observer, wrote recently that ''thousands of people in our area view the Bobcats with resentment or indifference.''
 ''These folks wouldn't go to uptown Charlotte to watch a Bobcats game if someone handed them free tickets and pointed to a limousine to take them there,'' he added. That's a hard knock in a sports town where Mr. Johnson's polar opposite, Jerry Richardson, the white founder of the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League, ferries his fans around in a golf cart. The owner-as-average-guy touch and the Panthers' success on the field have endeared Mr. Richardson and his team to locals. 
 ON the afternoon before the charity boxing match, Mr. Johnson sits in a Charlotte eatery, a few blocks from the Bobcats' yet-to-be-named coliseum, reflecting on the history of black capitalists in America -- a past, he says, that is painfully slight. 
 ''The fact is, black people do not have much of a history in creating wealth in this country. As a result, we are not trusted to handle other people's money,'' he says. ''We are valued mostly for our physical talent, our artistic talent and maybe our ability to sell to other blacks. But when it comes to building value in companies, or managing the money of whites, overseeing investments, there has always been this discrimination.''
 He shrugs and stabs his crab cake. ''But let's face it, on the other hand, race discrimination gives me a natural public relations advantage. Because of race discrimination, I can get a pat on the back just for being first,'' he says. ''That's how I get the visibility, the first-mover advantage. That's what I like -- to enter the arena first.''
 Mr. Johnson has just returned from Utah, where he attended the Sundance Film Festival in search of opportunities for Our Stories, a Los Angeles-based film company he started late last year. The trip was bittersweet. While the dearth of black-oriented films at the festival disappointed him, it also solidified his faith in the prospects for his new venture. His partner is the indie-movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, whose own new enterprise, the Weinstein Company, will serve as his distributor. JPMorgan Chase has sunk $175 million into Our Stories. 
 ''What I like about Bob is that he dreams over the horizon when most people can't,'' Mr. Weinstein says. ''This is about an African-American entrepreneur who is starting a black-owned movie studio because he stepped forward and had the expertise to pull it together.''
 In a sense, the financial model for Our Stories -- tapping the resources of mainstream white investors as a means of gaining the economic efficiencies afforded by scale -- is how Mr. Johnson has built most of his companies, and it distinguishes him from most of his African-American counterparts. His private equity fund, for instance, is financed partly by the Washington-based Carlyle Group, while his hedge fund has backing from Deutsche Bank.
 Other black entrepreneurs, like Madame C. J. Walker, the black hair care products maven; Alonzo Herndon, founder of the Atlanta Life Insurance Company; and John Johnson, the publisher of Ebony and Jet magazines, also made fortunes in niches selling products aimed at black customers -- but their financial platforms were mostly homegrown and their market visions more narrow. Bankrolled with personal savings or family loans, and powered by social as well as economic goals, most African-American businesses were passed down to family members with little concern for outside investors. 
 There are, of course, exceptions, like Wally Amos, the founder of Famous Amos cookies. ''I knew there were people who would not buy my cookies because I am black,'' says Mr. Amos, who started his company (which is now owned by Kellogg) in 1975. ''But that was not my problem; it was theirs. To me anybody with a mouth was a potential customer.''
 Mr. Johnson says his approach is like that of the late Reginald F. Lewis, the black Harvard Business School graduate and corporate lawyer whose venture capital firm acquired Beatrice International Foods, the global food, beverage and grocery store conglomerate, in 1987 for $985 million. The transaction, bankrolled partly by the onetime junk-bond king Michael R. Milken, created the largest black-owned business in the United States, with annual revenue of $1.8 billion. 
 ''Look, the social activist mold that was poured for Al Sharpton or Jesse Jackson or Vernon Jordan was not poured for me; the artistic mold that was poured for Oprah Winfrey and Jay-Z was not poured for me, either -- that is not the DNA that I got,'' Mr. Johnson says. ''The mold that was poured for me is the same one that was poured for Ken Chenault, Richard Parsons, Stanley O'Neal. I create wealth and value. That's what I do, and I'm good at it.'' 
 Mr. Malone concurs and says that blacks have been unfair to Mr. Johnson. ''It's a real challenge in the black race to be successful and not be regarded as having sold out,'' he says. ''It's a terrible shame that the entire black community doesn't embrace people like Bob, honor him.''
 In Charlotte, at least, Mr. Johnson has his share of white critics. So while it might be convenient to attribute Mr. Johnson's struggles with the Bobcats as partly a function of the color of his skin, there is a strong possibility that a more involved, hands-on black owner might be enjoying a smoother honeymoon than Mr. Johnson.
 IN the three years since he took over the Bobcats, Mr. Johnson has -- largely from a distance -- initiated a series of senior management shakeups and cuts, a move from an old arena to a new one and, for season ticket holders, a price increase followed by a price reduction. As the N.B.A. showcases its top athletes today at its annual all-star game in Las Vegas, no Bobcats players will be featured. The Bobcats reside at the bottom of the Southeast Division of the league's Eastern Conference with 19 wins and 33 losses. And in a brand new arena that the city built for the Bobcats despite local opposition, the team's home attendance ranks 27th among the N.B.A.'s 30 teams. 
 ''I don't know of a professional sports franchise that can fill up an arena when they're in last place; you have to win games,'' says Mayor Patrick McCrory of Charlotte. ''It's just that simple.''
 It doesn't help that Charlotte fans still nurse a grudge over the last pro team that rolled into town. Back in the late 1980s, the businessman George Shinn started the Charlotte Hornets but relocated to New Orleans after his unsuccessful bid for a new basketball arena. 
 Mr. Jordan, the former Chicago Bulls star, says: ''There has been a wedge that's been created here. There was trust and respect that had been earned and then the team leaves. People are still upset about that.''
 For his part, Mr. Johnson says he is ready to mend those wounds. Yet even as he tries to demonstrate passion for Charlotte and the Bobcats, he sounds the notes of a brass-tacks, no-nonsense entrepreneur. ''I like this city,'' he says. ''It's business-oriented. It's got the big banks; the government is profit-oriented; it's a transportation hub. It's non-union.''
 It is that approach that leaves some observers wondering whether Mr. Johnson has what it takes to lift the value of a sports franchise that, in the end, is linked to team loyalty and winning. As Mr. Edmond of Black Enterprise observes: ''What makes him a great entrepreneur may end up handicapping him as the owner of a sports franchise where fans expect owners to love the team as much as they do.''
 Bought for $300 millionMusicOwns a jazz recording company, Three Keys Music, featuring smoothjazz artists.FilmStarted the Los Angeles-based film studio Our Stories last year, with the producer Harvey Weinstein. JPMorgan Chase is providing $175 million in debt financingNightclub/restaurantsOwns a Disney nightclub in Orlando, Fla., and high-end restaurants throughout the country.
 BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICESHedge fundThe venture with Deutsche Bank provides investment vehicles for pension funds and institutions.Private equityFormed an alliance with the Carlyle Group to identify investment opportunities in media and financial services. Intends to raise $500 million in capital commitments401(k) servicesHas majority ownership in RolloverSystems, a Charlotte, N.C.-based company that specializes in 401(k) rollovers.Commercial bankingMr. Johnson's Urban Trust Bank focuses on minority and urban customers and has branches in Washington and Orlando. Urban Trust Education Finance expects to start offering student loans this year.REAL ESTATEHotels and lodgingThrough RLJ Development and Urban Lodging Fund, Mr. Johnson owns more than 100 hotels and resorts, many branded as Hiltons and Marriotts.$3 billion in assetsGAMBLINGLottery machinesA Puerto Rico-based firm operates video lottery terminals throughout several Caribbean countries.(Source by RLJ Companies)(pg. 4) 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Robert L. Johnson, the businessman who is now majority owner of the Charlotte Bobcats of the N.B.A., referred incorrectly to part of the educational background of Reginald F. Lewis, the late corporate lawyer and financier to whom Mr. Johnson compared his business approach. Mr. Lewis graduated from Harvard Law School, not Harvard Business School.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert L. Johnson founded and sold Black Entertainment Television. Now he owns the Bobcats, the N.B.A. team in Charlotte, N.C., and some old questions about his leadership style linger. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Alicia Keys performs at a party for Robert Johnson in 2005, when he left BET. (Photo by Matthew Simmons/Getty Images)
Tracey Edmonds, president and C.E.O. of Our Stories, with Mr. Johnson at the studio launch party in October 2006. (Photo by Stephen Shugerman/Getty Images)
President Bush with Mr. Johnson at an Urban Trust Bank in October 2006. (Pool photo by Win McNamee)
 (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Chart: ''Overseeing a Vast Empire''After selling his Black Entertainment Television in 2000, Robert L. Johnson has amassed a broad portfolio of entertainment, financial and other holdings.ENTERTAINMENTCharlotte BobcatsAcquired the N.B.A. expansion team in 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); BOXING (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Basketball; Biographical Information; Blacks; Millionaires and Billionaires

COMPANY: BLACK ENTERTAINMENT TELEVISION INC (58%); VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE BOBCATS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%) Charlotte Bobcats

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JOHN MALONE (57%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (57%); ALICIA KEYS (53%) Robert L Johnson; Ron Stodghill

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



395 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 2-18-07: QUESTIONS FOR DREW SHINDELL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Political Heat

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
Q: As a physicist and climatologist at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, you recently testified before Congress about ways in which the Bush administration has tried to prevent you from releasing information on global warming. Can you give us an example? Sure. Press releases about global warming were watered down to the point where you wondered, Why would this capture anyone's interest? Once when I issued a report predicting rapid warming in Antarctica, the press release ended up highlighting, in effect, that Antarctica has a climate.
If your department is that politicized, how does that affect research? Well, five years from now, we will know less about our home planet that we know now. The future does not have money set aside to maintain even the current level of observations. There were proposals for lots of climate-monitoring instruments, most of which have been canceled. 
 By NASA? Well, it's a NASA decision following the directives from their political leaders. The money has been redirected into the manned space program, primarily. 
 Are you referring to President Bush and his plan to send Americans to Mars? The moon and Mars, yes. It's fine to do it for national spirit or exploring the cosmos, but the problem is that it comes at the cost of observing and protecting our home planet. 
 Why is NASA involved in climate research in the first place? There is no federal agency whose primary mission is the climate, and that's a problem, because climate doesn't command the clout that it should in Washington. Since NASA is the primary agency for launching new scientific satellites, it has ended up collecting some of the most important data on climate change.
 I take it you don't ride along on the satellites. Like the guy in ''Dr. Strangelove'' who was riding on the bombs? No. I would volunteer to go up on the shuttle, but I don't think they would take someone like me. My eyesight is really bad. 
 What do you make of the news of that female astronaut who reportedly planned to kill a romantic rival? Who knew that NASA would turn up in Congress one week and in the tabloids the next?
 There are now several bills floating around Congress that would limit greenhouse-gas emissions. Is one better than the others? They are useful first steps. But they are just baby steps. In the long term, we have to reduce emissions much more than any of these bills envision. At the state level, California is a great example of what the rest of the country should be doing. They require that energy be used efficiently, and as a result their per capita energy use has stayed level for decades, despite the growth in their economy. 
 Why do you think the federal government has been so phobic about adopting energy-efficiency regulations? ''Phobic'' is the right word, because it's irrational not to conserve when you think of all the advantages, such as keeping money in consumers' pockets instead of sending it to Middle Eastern countries that hate us. 
 What do you consider the most immediate threat of global warming? More heat waves, more drought, rising sea levels and stronger hurricanes.
 On the plus side, will New Yorkers one day be able to walk down Broadway in the dead of winter and get a tan? No, it's not going to get sunnier. Same amount of sun. Just hotter. 
 The president acknowledged the problem of ''global climate change'' in his State of the Union address last month. What do you think of the phrase? I'm mostly O.K. with it. It's a phrase scientists use all the time. 
 And ''global warming''? A bad name. Global warming sounds cozy and comfortable. 
 So perhaps you should try a new coinage. ''Climate meltdown'' sounds a little more ominous. DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Christian Oth) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACECRAFT (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (64%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (62%) Weather; English Language; Global Warming; Research

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Drew Shindell; Deborah Solomon; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MARS (90%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ANTARCTICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



396 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Redevelopment Funds In Atlantic City

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your Feb. 11 editorial ''Betrayal in Atlantic City'' does not mention the increased level of competition in gaming up and down the Eastern seaboard -- and now within an hour's drive in Philadelphia and Delaware. 
 Without a changed Casino Reinvestment Development Authority financing formula to encourage reinvestment in existing properties, we may very well not have seen the development of the Borgata, House of Blues at Showboat, the Pier at Caesars and the Quarter at Tropicana -- not to mention new hotel towers at Harrah's and the Taj and prospective development at the old Sands.
Those new development dollars in Atlantic City lead to more gaming revenues and more funds being channeled into the development authority for the very projects you say must be supported -- like new housing and other local revitalization projects that lead to urban renewal. 
 A rising tide lifts all boats. The development authority will be successful only if the casino industry is successful. Keith DavisLinwoodThe writer is chairman of the Atlantic County Republican Committee. To the Editor:
 It's great that you publish an editorial, ''Betrayal in Atlantic City,'' decrying the diversion of $400 million in funds by the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority back to the casinos instead of having the money benefit the poor -- the legislative purpose intended. But is the matter going to rest there?
 The Jan. 28 Times report on which the editorial is based mentioned that these misappropriations took place over a seven-year period. This prompts another question: where were the governmental and press watchdogs when meetings, backdoor and otherwise, were occurring that permitted the allocations? After all, $400 million is no small potatoes and should have raised some eyebrows along the way.
 Shouldn't Gov. Jon S. Corzine and the state's citizenry -- taking a leaf from the book of one of the major beneficiaries of the disbursements, Donald Trump -- say ''You're fired!'' to the parties who engaged in this chicanery?Marcus WiesnerMontclair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); CASINOS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MISAPPROPRIATION (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Area Planning and Renewal; Gambling; Casinos ; Finances; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: Casino Reinvestment Development Authority

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%); JON CORZINE (51%) Keith Davis; Marcus Wiesner

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Atlantic City (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



397 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: No Cold War, Perhaps, but Surely a Lukewarm Peace

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN'S acerbic assault on American unilateralism last weekend in Munich might not have heralded a return to the bad old days of global ideological confrontation -- of blocs and proxy wars, dissidents and spies, arms races and mutually assured destruction -- even if some were quick to say it did. 
 The problem is, Cold War II could in its own way be just as messy and unpredictable. For all the talk of strategic partnership and even personal friendship between Mr. Putin and President Bush, the relationship between Russia and the United States has reached what is probably its lowest point since the Soviet Union collapsed a decade and a half ago.
This is now ''the world of one master, one sovereign,'' Mr. Putin said in Munich, and he was in no way pleased. ''The United States,'' he said, ''has overstepped its national borders, and in every area.'' 
 The countries seem headed into a period of tensions when every step is met with distrust and some counterstep, putting them on opposite sides of hotspots around the world, from Iran to Georgia to Kosovo. 
 And with presidential elections in both countries coming in 2008, it is unlikely to get better, since candidates rarely score points at home by being conciliatory abroad.
 The countries are now openly competing for influence in Europe, in the Caucasus and in Central Asia, where access to natural resources and military bases has become paramount for both. The Bush administration's plan to build ballistic missile defenses in Poland and the Czech Republic is viewed with outright hostility here. So is NATO's flirtation with Georgia and Ukraine, both former Soviet republics that Russia considers part of its historic sphere of influence.
 Equally hostile is the American view of Russia's arms sales to Syria, Venezuela and, most worrisome of all, Iran. Russia last month provided Iran with $700 million worth of TOR-M1 antiaircraft batteries whose likely target in the event of conflict would be American fighters and bombers, just as Russian anti-tank weapons, originally sold to Syria, were used against Israeli forces fighting Hezbollah in Lebanon last year, prompting diplomatic protests from Israel.
 The areas in which Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush have cooperated closely -- against terrorism and the spread of nuclear weapons -- suddenly seem like sources of confrontation as much as collaboration. Last week's deal with North Korea to suspend its nuclear programs offers hope of collaboration, but a declaration by Russia's top general that Russia could withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, negotiated by Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in 1987, portends the opposite.
 ''There was an equilibrium and a fear of mutual destruction,'' Mr. Putin said in his Munich speech, delivered at an annual trans-Atlantic security conference. ''And in those days one party was afraid to make an extra step without consulting the other. And this was certainly a fragile peace and a frightening one, but as we see today, it was reliable enough. Today it seems that the peace is not so reliable.''
 Russia and the United States are no more likely to go to war than before, when their nuclear arsenals assured a perpetual standoff, as they still do. But potential flashpoints abound. And, as in the cold war, it would not take much for simmering tensions to become a grave breach, even a violent one.
 Last September, for example, someone in South Ossetia, the Russian-supported enclave in Georgia, fired on a helicopter carrying the Georgian defense minister on the same day that a Senate delegation including John McCain was flying around the region.
 ''Can you imagine,'' said Andrew Kuchins of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, ''if they had shot down John McCain's helicopter?'' 
 Mr. Putin's speech, which was interpreted at least by some in Russia as a defining moment akin to Winston Churchill's in 1946 that gave the world the phrase ''Iron Curtain,'' almost certainly reflected Russia's rediscovered swagger on the world stage. It certainly could become a historical marker. Buoyed by soaring energy prices, Mr. Putin's Kremlin is more assertive about its role in the Middle East, in Asia, in Europe -- and inevitably that means tripping over American interests in those places.
 Mr. Putin was also airing long-simmering grievances about the heavy-handedness of American foreign policy that began under President Bill Clinton and continued under Mr. Bush. The complaint is of the United States' disregard for Russia's feelings on issue after issue since the 1990s, from the expansion of NATO to the alliance's war against Serbia, when Russia was simply too weak and chaotic to do anything about it.
 ''The West has not reckoned with the quick revival of Russia,'' said Alexander Rahr, a Russia expert at the German Council on Foreign Relations. He stopped short of predicting Cold War II but, ''We can surely speak of the emergence of a cold peace.''
 After reaching out to Mr. Bush in the first hours after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Putin and others here have expressed dismay at what they see as a string of broken promises: an unfinished war in Afghanistan, with a growth of heroin production that inevitably reaches Russia; and, even worse, the seeming permanence of an airfield in Kyrgyzstan once billed as temporary. Then there is the war in Iraq, which Russians vehemently opposed and Mr. Putin warned would be catastrophic for regional peace.
 American officials have expressed equal dismay with Mr. Putin's unmet promises on democratization and an ''energy dialogue'' that was supposed to expand opportunities for American oil and gas companies but died with the Kremlin's campaign to impose state control over natural resources. Mr. Putin spent last week in the Middle East, including Qatar, another major producer of natural gas, expressing interest in a ''gas OPEC'' that could coordinate policy and prices for Europe and the United States.
 ''That is what worries me about a new cold war: both sides feel betrayed,'' said Sergei M. Rogov, director of the Institute for the Study of the United States and Canada in Moscow.
 Mr. Rogov said the two countries now disagreed on economics, politics, military matters and, most important, values. The latter includes distinct worldviews, he said: Russia's desire for multinational solutions that give it a voice versus American unilateralism that, especially under Mr. Bush, disdains the constraints of international treaties and obligations. Increasingly they seem to be talking past each other.
 The most ominous development, Mr. Rogov said, would be a breakdown in cooperation on nuclear nonproliferation. To turn the tide of nationalistic ambitions to acquire nuclear weapons will require the countries to agree, as they did with North Korea but have yet to do with Iran.
 ''If we fight, politically not militarily,'' he said, ''who will be minding the store?'' 
 American officials were clearly shocked by the tone of Mr. Putin's speech but sought to emphasize the areas of agreement. And Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates went so far as to retort, ''One cold war was enough.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Finger-Wagging Friends -- For Presidents Bush and Putin, it's not personal.
 Oh, Sheathe Your Sickle -- The cold war antagonists Nikita Khrushchev and Richard Nixon did not mince words, translated or otherwise, in 1959. (Photo by Howard Sochurek/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS RACE (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TERRORISM (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); HEZBOLLAH (65%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States International Relations

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RICHARD NIXON (59%) Steven Lee Myers; George W (Pres) Bush; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SYRIA (92%); GEORGIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); KOSOVO (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Russia; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



398 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Bleeding Jobs in Connecticut

 BODY:
Sometimes a chart, like a picture, is worth a thousand words. For proof, consider the insight provided by one graphic buried deep in the Economic Report of the Governor, which was released along with the proposed state budget earlier this month, as state law requires.
 This chart shows which of a dozen or so different sectors gained jobs in the last six years, and which ones lost. The big losers were manufacturing and ''information'' services, both down about one-fifth, the latter no doubt hurt by the collapse of the high-tech bubble. 
The big winners were the service industry, which pays relatively low wages, and -- hold the phone -- government. 
 Connecticut is in trouble if the only real growth is in jobs that involve pumping gas or flipping burgers, and jobs wholly financed by taxpayers. These numbers also highlight the urgency of the issues that will face the next boss of the state's Department of Economic and Community Development, a person that Gov. M. Jodi Rell is even now in the process of choosing. 
 In the six-plus years between July 2000 and the end of 2006, Connecticut suffered a net loss of 21,000 jobs. The biggest decline occurred in manufacturing, which dropped by a whopping 43,900 jobs, an illustration of the state's high energy costs as well as its regressive taxes on manufacturing. The information sector, which includes telecommunications and publishing, lost nearly 9,000 jobs, followed by a drop of 5,400 jobs in construction and mining. 
 At the same time, the service industry gained 17,700 jobs and government hired 19,800. 
 In fairness, a footnote in the report states that ''government'' jobs include ''employees of the Sovereign Tribal Nations in casinos.'' But those jobs make up the minority of the total, only about 4,000. During the period in question, jobs declined at Foxwoods Resort and Casino and increased at Mohegan Sun. 
 The job decline in the manufacturing industry hurt the state the most, not just in terms of lost jobs but also in terms of wages. Manufacturing employment pays about twice as much as the average casino salary of around $30,000, and far more than the average service industry wage, neither of which provides enough income to buy a house just about anywhere in Connecticut.
 It is not news that the state needs to improve the business climate. But Connecticut has in the past focused its incentives on large employers, often from out of state, largely ignoring the potential of helping small businesses, which are already here, grow bigger. The governor's office said that it proposed to extend tax credits to businesses that employ 25 people. But extending low-interest loans to even smaller businesses that employ nine or fewer would also be a good investment.
 There are impressive examples of midsize to large businesses around the state that started small. Oxford Health Plans, which started in Stephen Wiggins's spare bedroom in 1984, now generates billions of dollars in revenue. Sonalysts Inc., based in Waterford, started when David and Muriel Hinkle decided to bid for a small defense contract in 1973. It now employs more than 450. Nearly three-quarters of all businesses registered with the state are those that employ nine or fewer. 
 As the governor ponders her choice for the next commissioner, she should break with the failed policies of the past. A prosperous future cannot depend on service and government jobs alone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Labor; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials

PERSON: M JODI RELL (77%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



399 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL 3-20Attacks on Helicopters DetailedDocuments captured from Iraqi insurgents indicate that some of the recent fatal attacks against American helicopters are the result of a strategy to focus on downing coalition aircraft by mounting coordinated assaults, according to an American intelligence report. 1 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise visit to Baghdad to meet with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and other Iraqi officials about the new security plan. 20 An Iraqi Detainee's Grim TaleAn Iraqi released from detention at Camp Bucca has described the sprawling complex of barracks in southern Iraq as a place where guards casually used their stun guns and exposed prisoners to long periods of extreme heat and cold, and where detainees responded with hunger strikes and violent protests. 1 Pakistani Courtroom BombedA bomber blew himself up in a small district court room in Quetta, killing 15 people, including a senior judge, and wounding 35 others, officials said. 
The chief elected official of the province connected the attack to the string of suicide attacks that has killed some 40 people across the country in recent weeks. 17 Film Resonates in Uganda''The Last King of Scotland,'' a movie about the reign of the dictator Idi Amin, is being greeted with exuberance by Ugandans proud that one of this year's surprise hits in Hollywood is about their country. 1 Rebuilding Just Starting in GazaThe Israeli withdrawal from settlements in the Gaza Strip in 2005 raised Palestinian hopes for new homes, schools and businesses, but internal turmoil, the conflict with Israel and a lack of money have kept the settlements looking as they were the day the Israelis left. 3 NATIONAL 22-31Senate Rejects Iraq DebateSenate critics of President Bush's troop buildup in Iraq failed in a renewed effort to force debate on a resolution opposing the administration's military strategy. But seven Republicans broke from the president. 1Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's refusal to apologize for her 2002 vote authorizing military action in Iraq has left her exposed to a level of anger from the Democratic left that has surprised some of her advisers and has her campaign wondering how long it will last. 30 Blogging Out of DebtA decade after the Internet became a public stage for revelations from the bedroom, it is now peering into the really private stuff: personal finance. Dozens of debt blogs have sprung up in recent years, and some feel the exposure gives them the discipline to reduce their debt. 1 NEW YORK/REGION 33-38Vanishing Factory JobsAcross the central valley ofConnecticut, one locally owned manufacturing plant after another has closed. Over the last decade, the state estimates that the manufacturing economy has shrunk by nearly a fourth, and the ripples can be felt throughout the region. 33 OBITUARIES 38-39Ian StevensonA psychiatrist who turned to the paranormal as a tool, he was 88. 38Chess 25Weather 40
INTERNATIONAL 3-20Attacks on Helicopters DetailedDocuments captured from Iraqi insurgents indicate that some of the recent fatal attacks against American helicopters are the result of a strategy to focus on downing coalition aircraft by mounting coordinated assaults, according to an American intelligence report. 1 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise visit to Baghdad to meet with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and other Iraqi officials about the new security plan. 20 An Iraqi Detainee's Grim TaleAn Iraqi released from detention at Camp Bucca has described the sprawling complex of barracks in southern Iraq as a place where guards casually used their stun guns and exposed prisoners to long periods of extreme heat and cold, and where detainees responded with hunger strikes and violent protests. 1 Pakistani Courtroom BombedA bomber blew himself up in a small district court room in Quetta, killing 15 people, including a senior judge, and wounding 35 others, officials said. The chief elected official of the province connected the attack to the string of suicide attacks that has killed some 40 people across the country in recent weeks. 17 Film Resonates in Uganda''The Last King of Scotland,'' a movie about the reign of the dictator Idi Amin, is being greeted with exuberance by Ugandans proud that one of this year's surprise hits in Hollywood is about their country. 1 Rebuilding Just Starting in GazaThe Israeli withdrawal from settlements in the Gaza Strip in 2005 raised Palestinian hopes for new homes, schools and businesses, but internal turmoil, the conflict with Israel and a lack of money have kept the settlements looking as they were the day the Israelis left. 3 NATIONAL 22-31Senate Rejects Iraq DebateSenate critics of President Bush's troop buildup in Iraq failed in a renewed effort to force debate on a resolution opposing the administration's military strategy. But seven Republicans broke from the president. 1Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's refusal to apologize for her 2002 vote authorizing military action in Iraq has left her exposed to a level of anger from the Democratic left that has surprised some of her advisers and has her campaign wondering how long it will last. 30 Blogging Out of DebtA decade after the Internet became a public stage for revelations from the bedroom, it is now peering into the really private stuff: personal finance. Dozens of debt blogs have sprung up in recent years, and some feel the exposure gives them the discipline to reduce their debt. 1 NEW YORK/REGION 33-38Vanishing Factory JobsAcross the central valley ofConnecticut, one locally owned manufacturing plant after another has closed. Over the last decade, the state estimates that the manufacturing economy has shrunk by nearly a fourth, and the ripples can be felt throughout the region. 33 OBITUARIES 38-39Ian StevensonA psychiatrist who turned to the paranormal as a tool, he was 88. 38Chess 25Weather 40

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RIOTS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FILM (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); JUDGES (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UGANDA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007



400 of 601 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Rice, in Surprise Baghdad Visit, Presses Leaders for Progress

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Feb. 17 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice made a surprise visit to Baghdad on Saturday to meet with Iraqi officials about the new security plan and to press the Shiite-led government to accelerate reconciliation, reconstruction and economic progress. 
 Iraqi officials in recent days have said the start of the new push for security in Baghdad has been a success, significantly reducing violence.
Ms. Rice, in a meeting with reporters after her talk with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and other Iraqi leaders, said it was still too early to judge the effectiveness of the new plan. But she said she had pushed the Iraqis to think beyond short-term security, to how neighborhoods and Iraqi civil society could be rebuilt if sectarian violence between the ruling Shiites and the minority Sunnis subsided. 
 She said she had told Iraq's leaders to quickly finish work on an oil law that would distribute revenues evenly among Iraq's population. She also stressed the importance of creating a more balanced government by rehiring thousands of Sunni civil servants whom the Americans fired soon after the invasion in 2003, fearing they would remain loyal to Saddam Hussein.
 She described both proposed moves as proxies for larger, still unanswered questions about whether Iraq could become a truly united country. 
 ''I'm told that the oil law is almost complete.'' she said. ''I did say to my colleagues that I've heard it's almost complete before, and this time I hope it really is complete -- as in, complete -- because people are looking to see some elements of national reconciliation put into place. It's really critical.''
 The Baghdad stop, tagged on to Ms. Rice's scheduled trip to Israel, comes at a politically delicate time for the Bush administration. On Friday, a sharply divided House of Representatives passed a resolution formally repudiating President Bush's decision to send more than 20,000 new combat troops to Iraq. 
 The rare wartime rebuke to the commander in chief -- an act that is not binding but carries symbolic significance -- was approved 246 to 182, with 17 Republicans breaking ranks to join all but 2 Democrats in supporting the resolution.
 Ms. Rice said she used the restiveness in Washington to underline for Iraqi officials the spread of American frustration with Iraq's lagging political and economic progress. 
 She said she had ''made clear that some of the debate in Washington is, in fact, indicative of the concerns that the American people have about the prospects for success'' if Iraq's leaders did not quickly take actions to ensure longer-term stability. 
 Ms. Rice also addressed the administration's recent claim that the Quds Force, an elite branch of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard, had supplied Shiite militants in Iraq with deadly roadside bombs that had killed American troops. Echoing comments made by President Bush, Ms. Rice said she did not know whether the top levels of Iran's government had approved delivering the weapons to Iraq. But she said she did not think that excused Iran. 
 ''It is an activity that is done by an element of the Iranian government,'' she said, ''so I think the Iranian government has to be held accountable for it.''
 Earlier Saturday, Ms. Rice addressed about 25o American soldiers and civilian State Department employees at a palace that doubles as the United States Embassy. Standing in a cavernous lounge, beside an American espresso bar and below gilded ceilings embossed with Mr. Hussein's initials, she acknowledged criticism over the war in Congress.
 ''Some do not think this war was the right war to fight,'' she said. ''Some believe we in the administration haven't fought it quite right.'' But she also insisted that, despite those disagreements, both Democrats and Republicans appreciated the troops' efforts. 
 ''We can have our discussions and debates at home, but Americans want to win this war,'' she said. ''You're in a noble cause.'' 
 Mr. Rice also said that Iraq's struggles for stability were not dissimilar from what the United States once experienced: ''Perfect union was imperfect at its start.'' 
 She said Iraq's situation was similar, and she cautioned against viewing Iraqis as less competent at building a democracy. ''Usually people think of war and peace,'' she said. ''We all know that, in between, there's a lot.''
 Ms. Rice's visit came on a day of relative calm in Baghdad, but in the northern city of Kirkuk, two car bombs near the offices of a Kurdish political party, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, killed nine people.
 After her day in Baghdad, Ms. Rice traveled to Israel for a meeting on Monday between the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, and the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); APPROVALS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIGION (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (61%); ARMED FORCES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

 
