

801 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 5; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: More Than Cars, Not Quite Trucks (but Toyotas to the Core); 
RAV4: Even Grown, It Earns Grins

BYLINE:  By BOB KNOLL 

 BODY:
BEFORE there was a Ford Escape or Hyundai Santa Fe, before the Suzuki Vitara or Chevrolet Tracker, even before there was a Subaru Forester or Honda CR-V, there was the Toyota RAV4. It was among the first of the small, perky, youth-oriented vehicles called cute utes.
 Five years since the RAV4 made its debut, an extensively redesigned model is out. Toyota has significantly beefed up its small sport utility, which is now less of a toy and more of a truly useful utility vehicle. 
 Even in its new, somewhat larger guise -- the 2001 model is 1.3 inches longer and 1.6 inches wider -- the RAV4 is smaller, more lively and more agile than other small sport utilities. The previous two-door model is gone; there is now only a four-door body style with a side-hinged cargo door. Only one engine is available, a new aluminum 2-liter 4-cylinder with 148 horsepower that feels even peppier thanks to its variable valve timing. Either a five-speed manual transmission or four-speed automatic is available, as is front- or all-wheel drive. This is a full-time all-wheel-drive system, like the Highlander's, that splits the power 50-50 to front and rear.
To hold down the base price -- $16,695, including destination charge -- the option list is quite long. All-wheel drive adds $1,400 and an automatic transmission is $1,050. Popular options like air-conditioning, power windows, locks, and cruise control, along with a cassette-plus-CD sound system, are bundled in a $2,295 quick order package.
A fancier L trim package is $3,120, and there are stand-alone options like antilock brakes ($590) and leather interior ($800). In short, you can push the price of this little vehicle to $25,000 and beyond. 
I found the RAV4 to be fun to drive -- a lot more so than the Highlander. Toyotas usually go about their business with such quiet competence that they become, essentially, four-wheeled appliances. The Highlander is that way, but the RAV4 is not.
Its steering response is quick and precise, more so than many sedans'. The responsive engine becomes obtrusively noisy only at high revolutions. The brakes feel tight and progressive, similar to those of my own Audi A4, which I consider to be the standard. The ride is akin to that of a small car, choppy on some roads and smooth on others. In the deep snow that accumulated this winter in New England, the all-wheel-drive test vehicle managed to maintain good traction.
But I was disappointed with the fuel economy. Not only did I expect better than the 22.5 m.p.g. that I got over all, the gauge dropped annoyingly fast because of the rather small, 14.7-gallon tank.
As one might expect, the cabin is narrow. The rear seat is tight for two and very cramped for three. But that seat, which is split in half, folds and can be easily removed. With it out, the 68.3 cubic feet of volume exceeds that of two wagons whose back seats fold but do not come out -- the Subaru Outback (62.1 cubic feet) and Audi A4 Avant (63.7) -- and nearly matches that of the much larger Volvo Cross Country (70).
The RAV4's rear cargo area is exceptionally easy to load and unload because of the low floor and side-opening door. But take heed: there is no rear bumper. Even a slight fender-bender can cause expensive damage. Recent tests by the Institute for Highway Safety, a group financed by the insurance industry, found that rear damage in a 5 m.p.h. collision with a pole or flat barrier would cost more than $2,700 to repair.
The RAV4's instrument panel is simple and straightforward. The climate controls are three simple knobs -- no electronics here. The radio is situated up high and is easy to use. The "champagne colored" gauges are unusual -- their faces look like parchment -- but attractive.
There is the typical safety equipment: front air bags and force-limiting front belts, plus three-point belts for three rear-seat passengers. The outside seat positions in the back have the new Isofix child-seat anchors. 
The previous RAV4 got four stars (of a possible five) for both driver and front passenger in the government's front-crash tests. An Insurance Institute test of the new model -- crashed into a barrier at 40 m.p.h. -- showed improvement. The institute gave the 2001 RAV4 an acceptable rating.
Among small S.U.V.'s, about the same money will buy a RAV4, an Escape, a Santa Fe or a CR-V. But the Honda feels tinny and dated, and the reliability of the Escape and Santa Fe is yet unknown. The RAV4 is still the smallest, but it leads the pack in one respect: It is the most fun to drive.

INSIDE TRACK: Sports car in a box.

GRAPHIC: Photo: RAV4: Quick steering and a peppy engine make it one of the sportiest small S.U.V.'s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (62%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: KNOLL, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



802 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
What Price For a Pet's Life?

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
CHLOE the cat lived a long and mostly good life before dying one February morning. But according to Pamela Gordon, Chloe's owner, what should have been a peaceful ending for a feisty survivor was marred by a series of medical mishaps and an insensitive veterinarian.
 Ms. Gordon, an art dealer who lives in Greenwich Village, found Chloe abandoned in a Paris train station in 1983. She nursed her back to health and good spirits. Chloe was a relatively healthy 19-year-old until early this year. 
 Chloe's heart and kidneys failed in February, sending her into a rapid decline that Ms. Gordon believes could have been prevented if routine blood and urine tests had caught her kidney condition earlier. Ms. Gordon also complained that Chloe's doctor was hard to reach, failed to call in a prescription, gave Chloe the wrong kind of food and dismissed the cat as "aggressive." (The hospital said it had no record of a complaint from Ms. Gordon.)
The grief was bad enough. What was worse, Ms. Gordon said, was that when she began calling lawyers and animal rights groups to redress the injustice of Chloe's death she discovered that little could be done. 
Although she could file a professional complaint against Chloe's veterinarian, nothing in the law allowed her to collect damages for emotional distress and loss of companionship. Most of all, she wanted acknowledgment of the enormity of her loss, Ms. Gordon said. But because pets are considered property under the laws of most states, including New York, Ms. Gordon was advised that her best bet might be to collect the cost of replacing Chloe.
A few judges have ruled in individual cases that losing an animal is not the same as losing other property. But it is an evolving area of law. And awards have tended to be so small that lawyers don't take the cases on contingency. For example, one woman was awarded $700 for her emotional distress after she discovered a strange cat in her dog's coffin right before his burial. The dog had apparently been accidentally cremated.
For that reason, the city's animal rights activists are excited about a bill proposed by Assemblyman Patrick Manning, a Republican from Hopewell Junction, in the Hudson Valley, that would bring state law more in line with the feelings of people who regard their pets as members of the family.
The amendment to the state's Agriculture and Markets Law would make a person liable for up to $5,000 in "non-economic damages if that person kills or injures a pet through an unlawful and intentional reckless or negligent act." The damages, the bill says, "shall be limited to compensation for the loss of reasonably expected society, companionship, love and affection."
Mr. Manning said he proposed the bill because of two recent, highly publicized and malicious dog killings in upstate New York. In one case, a dog was shot in his owner's backyard; in the other, a dog was drowned in a nearby lake. Mr. Manning also heard from animal rights advocates in New York, which has its share of animals killed by the police, garbage collectors and errant bicyclists.
Mostly, Mr. Manning said, he wanted to send a message that animals lives are valued. He said he expected to find a lot of support for his bill in New York, where even studio dwellers are likely to have a cat or two.
Most of the pets living in the city are, like Chloe, companion animals without much "market" value, which means they are not farm animals, actors, models or show animals. The idea of animals as chattel or property goes back to common law. The law has evolved slowly to reflect the reality of pet life in this city, where New Yorkers can take their animals for massage or to luxury pet hotels equipped with television, and to dog clubs with restaurants and agility classes. According to the A.S.P.C.A., there are about 2.8 million households in New York, 1.5 million or so dogs and 1.6 million cats. 
Tennessee last year became the first state to pass legislation recognizing loss of companionship when a pet is killed. A similar bill is pending in Massachusetts. But not surprisingly, the American Veterinarian Service Association, which represent veterinarians, is opposed to broadening laws related to loss of pets. The group says suits for emotional distress will drive up malpractice insurance costs for veterinarians and be passed on in higher costs for pet owners. 
But for Ms. Gordon, money is not the issue.
"We had a wonderful life together," she said of Chloe. "I just wish the end had gone more smoothly. She was my child. She was my baby. When I lost my mother and my grandmother and I had boyfriends who came and went, she was always there for me."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (90%); PETS (89%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (86%); DAMAGES (86%); DOGS (77%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (66%); NEGLIGENCE (63%); KIDNEY DISEASE (58%); ART DEALERS (57%) VETERINARY MEDICINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: MANNING, PATRICK (ASSEMBLYMAN); LEE, FELICIA R; GORDON, PAMELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



803 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS WORLD; 
A High-Tech Lifeline In Europe's Rust Belt

BYLINE:  By PETER S. GREEN 

DATELINE: WARSAW 

 BODY:
THE factory floor of Z.R.E. Grodek seems an unlikely center of Poland's nascent Internet economy. Its 160 workers spend most of their time forging, banging and welding pieces of metal into boilers, racks, pumps and other parts for the heavy industry that the Internet revolution was supposed to make us forget.
 But unlike dozens of smokestack industries that barely cling to life in formerly Communist countries -- and are undercut by even cheaper labor in Asia and India -- Z.R.E. Grodek has found a new source of business via the Internet, which is slowly making its way onto the factory floors of Central and Eastern Europe. 
 Using a personal computer to dial up a business-to-business Web site in the United States, Z.R.E. Grodek, which was acquired two years ago by Universal Process Equipment Inc. of Robbinsville, N.J., has been bidding on contracts for American manufacturers seeking cheaper sources for labor-intensive products. Currently Z.R.E. (the initials stand for the Polish equivalent of the Electric Equipment Manufacturing Company) is building hundreds of metal frames for moving sheets of glass around a factory. The frames produced in the factory near Swiecie, about a three-and-a-half-hour drive northwest of Warsaw, will be used in American plants by Pilkington, a British glass maker. 
America's love affair with Internet investments soured because of over-optimistic bets on exotic technology applications that failed to produce speedy profits. But there is nothing fancy about Poland's current dot-com prosperity. Electronics entrepreneurs, investors and others have taken a look at the boom and bust of Silicon Valley and the Nasdaq index and focused their efforts and investments on bringing clicks to bricks, adapting traditional business to the Internet.
They have avoided most of the business-to-consumer models that crashed in America and are still a pipe dream in Poland, where only an estimated 5 to 8 percent of the population of 39 million has regular Internet access. And much of that is through old, unreliable phone lines.
"You can't make money on the Internet if there's no Internet in the first place," said Henning Esskuchen, an analyst at Erste Bank, an Austrian bank that is active in Central Europe. "What we think is doable and will survive in terms of start-ups are companies that focus on Internet infrastructure or on bringing existing companies to the Web."
Poland's overall economy remains one of the strongest in the region, growing 4.1 percent in 2000, and its sober entry into high technology should help the country in its quest to catch up to the living standards of Western Europe. Portals are opening, old media are moving online, inventors and developers are offering new products and new companies are still attracting investors. Industry analysts say investment in Poland's Internet sector is in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
In the last five years, 15 Polish high-technology companies have been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, though the market has not been kind to them recently. The exchange generally follows Nasdaq trends when it comes to technology shares, even if the Polish economy is not very dependent on the Internet. The 19-stock TechWIG index of Polish high-technology shares has fallen 42 percent since it was created in May 2000.
For now, Internet-related and information technology companies account for only a small percentage of the nation's economic activity, said Benita Mikolajewicz, an equity analyst at ING Barings in Warsaw. "Most of the Internet activity was done by traditional companies as a supplement to their main activity," she added.
That means opportunities for Poland's handful of high-technology venture capitalists. Rafal Styczen first made his fortune -- he declines to reveal its size -- six years ago, when, at 24, he floated his first high-technology company on the Warsaw exchange. The company, ComArch, in Krakow, designs and assembles computer systems for businesses. Last year, he started the Internet Investment Fund, also based in Krakow, to invest in Poland's new economy.
Mr. Styczen's fund has started nine companies. New investors have already bought interests in two of them, and two others are now operating profitably. The lack of stock market exposure has allowed Polish Internet companies to develop sensibly, he said, and to make their money by selling products and services, not shares.
"The hype was not here," Mr. Styczen said. "Internet companies didn't have time to raise a lot of money before the market went down."
Among his ventures is Billbird (www.mojerachunki.pl), which automates Poland's antiquated bill-paying system, a process that often requires payers to spend hours in line at post offices with wads of cash. SynergiXmedia, another venture, creates and sells interactive Web sites. Other investments include E-Center in Krakow, which provides a home, hardware and technical support for Web site operators, and Interactive Medicine, an online service for dentists to handle cumbersome bookkeeping and to manage orders for drugs and equipment.
Curiously, it is Poland's less-developed financial system that has helped the country's high-technology sector avoid much of the frenzied overextension that undermined many Silicon Valley start-ups.
POLAND has no masses of individual investors. Few people have significant savings, and interest rates on bank loans hover near 20 percent, making investing a luxury. And because investment dollars are scarce, Poland's fledgling Internet ventures have had to make a strong case for financing and have yet to let their growth get out of hand.
Venture capital from the United States, Britain and even from large Polish businesses like Elektrim S.A., a telecommunications conglomerate partly owned by Vivendi Universal of France, are all investing heavily in Polish high-technology businesses.
"The quality of business plans and new opportunities in the region is growing," says Marcin Hejka, strategic investments manager for Eastern Europe at Intel Capital, a division of the Intel Corporation, the world's largest maker of computer chips.
For the most part, Mr. Hejka said, money is still available. "If a company has a good idea, the right team and the right product, it shouldn't have trouble attracting venture capital investors" in Poland, he added.
Among the advantages that Poland and its neighbors offer to high-technology entrepreneurs is an abundance of smart, relatively low-paid engineers, Mr. Hejka said. One of Intel's investments is in NC Virtual Systems, based in Warsaw, which says it has solved a major problem for the mobile telephone industry -- how to cram enough data over the airwaves so that a portable device like a mobile phone can function almost as well as a desktop computer.
Such software could vastly accelerate the introduction of mobile Internet services that are now held back by slow operating systems and the limited capacity of the airwaves to carry the huge amounts of data needed to bring high-speed data transmissions to mobile phones. And that could mean vast profits for NC and its backers.
Banks, insurance companies and other service companies in Poland are also moving more of their operations online. And while media companies in Europe and the United States are cutting back on Internet investments, Agora A.S., the parent of Poland's largest and most profitable daily newspaper, Gazeta Wyborcza, is betting $10 million that its established brand will give it an edge as an Internet portal.
Filled with how-to information for consumers, Agora's Web site, www.gazeta.pl, will also have a database of the newspaper's archives, including reports from its 20 regional editions and its vast collection of classified ads.
Agora faces a challenge from I.T.I. Holdings, a Polish media group that recently bought 25 percent of the Polish computer services company Optimus and its Internet portal, Onet. I.T.I. already owns the nationwide television station TVN and four multiplex movie theaters.
Poland's Internet market clearly has room to grow, particularly as Internet use slowly climbs closer to Western European levels, said Ms. Mikolajewicz of ING Barings. In fact, Poland's style of dot-com entrepreneurship won a vote of confidence last week when Softbank Emerging Markets Inc., a $200 million venture capital fund created by the Softbank Corporation of Japan and a unit of the World Bank, opened a Central Europe office in Warsaw to invest in high-technology and Internet ventures in Central and Eastern Europe.
"What is developing in Central Europe is in many cases going to leapfrog developments elsewhere, and the market is just starting," said Matt Rothman, the chief executive of Softbank Emerging Markets. "So a lot of things that were tried and rejected in the U.S. will be avoided here, and you'll come up with more appropriate and localized solutions that I think will have a lot of success."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Z.R.E. Grodek, a metalworks in Poland, builds products for customers in the West under contracts secured over the Internet. (Photographs by Wojtek Szabelski/Free Press for The New York Times) Chart: "Reaching Out"Poland, which is finding ways to capitalize on the Internet, has one of the strongest economies in Central Europe. POLANDAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: +4.4G.D.P. IN 1998: $151.3 billion SLOVAKIAAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: +1.1G.D.P. IN 1998: 19.9 HUNGARYAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: +0.9G.D.P. IN 1998: 45.7 CZECH REPUBLICAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: -0.2G.D.P. IN 1998: 53.0 ROMANIAAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: -0.6G.D.P. IN 1998: 30.6 BULGARIAAverage annual real growth in gross domestic product, 1990-1998: -1.8G.D.P. IN 1998: 10.1 (Source: World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); GLASS MFG (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TRENDS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (60%); STOCK INDEXES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PROCESS EQUIPMENT INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (69%)

PERSON: GREEN, PETER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) POLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) POLAND

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



804 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Val Jensen; 
Jensen Portfolio

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
CAN a book change a life? Absolutely, says Val Jensen, lead manager of the $40 million Jensen Portfolio.
 In 1979, William E. Fruhan Jr., a Harvard Business School professor, wrote "Financial Strategy: Studies in the Creation, Transfer and Destruction of Shareholder Value." Mr. Fruhan studied 1,500 companies from 1965 to 1975 and found common characteristics among 72 outstanding performers: a focused business, excess capital and a sustained competitive advantage. Mr. Jensen was so impressed that nearly 17 years later, most of those 72 companies are still on his short list of stocks that he considers owning. 
 "We got 10 copies of the book but we gave most of them away," Mr. Jensen said from his office in Portland, Ore. "It did change our world. It's the foundation of our business."
The philosophical framework has proved solid for investors. The fund returned 11.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years ended Thursday, compared with 5.6 percent for its peers in the large-growth category and 5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc.
It lost just 2.3 percent during the difficult 12 months ended Thursday, compared with a 25.4 percent loss for its group and a 14.5 percent drop in the S.& P. 500. Jensen Investment Management, the fund's investment adviser, also manages about $160 million in individual accounts.
A company's cash is king for Mr. Jensen.
"We look for companies that have consistently generated cash earnings for their shareholders," he said. "Unlike reported earnings, cash earnings are available to management to reward shareholders by doing things like paying down debt, declaring dividends or buying back shares." To figure cash earnings, he adds back noncash charges like depreciation but subtracts capital expenditures.
Mr. Jensen, 71, works closely with a four-member investment committee to select the 20 or so companies in the fund from a list of about 90 to 115 that meet his investment principles. 
His primary screen looks for excess capital. Specifically, that means a minimum return on equity of at least 15 percent a year for 10 consecutive years -- a goal that can be met only by companies that have a sustained competitive advantage, he said. Most of the businesses generate at least 70 percent of total revenue from a single product or service.
He also wants significant free cash flow, which he defines as the cash left after operating expenses, including maintenance for capital assets. Many of the qualifying companies also have high profit margins -- 10 percent to 20 percent or more.
A main part of his balance-sheet analysis is trends in inventory and accounts receivable. "We like to see inventory and receivables growing at the same rate as revenues," he said. "That tells us that the company is not using accounting maneuvers to inflate their earnings or booking income from one-time sources."
Mr. Jensen also reviews changes in the number of shares outstanding, using share buybacks as a proxy for shareholder-friendly management.
He strays from Mr. Fruhan's teaching in one area: valuation. Mr. Fruhan said outstanding companies were often expensive; Mr. Jensen looks for companies that sell for significant discounts to what he believes they are worth.
Specifically, he buys shares at discounts of 50 to 60 percent of what he considers their intrinsic value. He calculates that value by adding the present value of a company's estimated cash flow over the next 10 years to what he believes the company's assets will be worth the year after that.
He generally trims positions when share prices reach 100 percent to 130 percent of their intrinsic value.
IN January, Mr. Jensen bought shares of Emerson Electric at an average cost of $73.86. Emerson, the electrical equipment maker based in St. Louis, has reported record earnings for 43 years in a row, he said. Its annual return on equity has averaged 19.7 percent in the last 10 years.
"It's a beautifully managed company," Mr. Jensen said. "They are able to read their customers well enough to know what business they should concentrate on." Moreover, management has been buying back stock aggressively, increasing dividends and making small acquisitions. "They do almost everything we want with their free cash flow," he said, adding that shares were relatively cheap because of investors' general worries about electronics makers in a slowing economy.
On Friday, Emerson shares closed at $67.14; Mr. Jensen figures their intrinsic value at $112.
Mr. Jensen has been adding shares of Gannett, the largest newspaper group in the country. He first bought shares in 1995 at an average of $26.57. The company's return on equity has averaged 20.8 percent in the last decade, he said.
The stock now sells at a large discount, he added, figuring that "with a slowdown in the economy, people are concerned about declining advertising." But he called the stock a bargain over the longer term. "Gannett is a very well-operated company," he said, "so if the economy continues to grow, Gannett is in a perfect place because of its strong franchise."
The stock is now at $65.87; Mr. Jensen calculates its intrinsic value at $139.
Another favorite is the State Street Corporation, in Boston, which he originally bought in 1998 at an average of $70.81 a share. "It's covered by bank analysts," he said, "but it's hardly a bank anymore." 
Last year, State Street sold its last retail banking business; it is now engaged solely in custodial, record-keeping and other services for mutual funds and institutional investors. State Street has roots that go back to 1792; dividends have been paid every year since. The shares are inexpensive, he said, because of Wall Street concerns that earnings will decline over the next few quarters. His view is different. 
"Earnings won't fall," he said, "but they won't increase as quickly as Wall Street would like."
On Friday, the shares closed at $104.50; he said their intrinsic value was $162.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Val Jensen, lead manager of the Jensen Portfolio, with his wife, Mary Ellen, at their home in Bend, Ore. (Dean Guernsey for The New York Times) Chart: "Jensen Portfolio"Category: Large growthNet assets: $40 millionInception: August 1992Manager: Val Jensen since inceptionMinimum purchase: $1,000 (Same for I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 32% 3-year annualized return through Thursday: 11.7%Category average: 5.6% Sector breakdown Other: 42%Industrial services: 6%Savings institutions: 11%Household products: 11%Computer software services: 14%Medical supplies: 16% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.94% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: JENSEN PORTFOLIO (MUTUAL FUND) 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; JENSEN, VAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (56%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



805 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS/for NEIL E. HARL; 
Converging Forces Afflict Farms

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
IT'S not easy to be a farmer these days. The agriculture sector has been in a recession for nearly four years. Commodity prices are depressed. Debate is intensifying over genetically altered crops and over the mergers of giant food processors into ever bigger corporations that demand large-scale precision farming. In Europe, there is mad cow disease and foot-and-mouth disease. At home, there is flooding along the Mississippi. And Congress and the Bush administration appear to be haggling over whether farmers will require another bailout this year. 
 Neil E. Harl, the Charles F. Curtiss professor of agriculture at Iowa State University, has been writing and teaching about agriculture for nearly 40 years and has been an adviser to state and federal agencies. He talked last week about the challenges confronting American farms.
 DAVID BARBOZA

Q. Corn prices have fallen 10 percent in the last month, to their lowest level in decades. Why are American farmers expected to plant so much corn this year, if prices are so depressed?

A. First of all, individual farmers don't make decisions based on the aggregate picture. They make decisions that are the best for them. This isn't Intel or Boeing. They think about aggregate market impact; no farmer is big enough to do that.
Secondly, they have fixed costs. So long as they can more than cover their variable costs, they keep on producing. You might say, "Why not try some other crop?" Well, every crop is in the tank. But they always hope that the next year will be better. In football and farming, there's always next year.
And there's government support as a motivating force. Last year, more than half of the net farm income came from government support. For some, it was all from the government. And they have expectations it'll come again this year. Last year, the government paid out a record $28 billion in direct payments. Not even in the 80's were the payments that large.

Q. If the farm economy is so depressed, why haven't supermarket prices fallen noticeably?

A. One factor is that the farmer's share of the retail food dollar is relatively small, particularly for processed foods. The costs incurred beyond the farm gate have a great influence on retail prices. Another thing that's been happening is massive concentration in the retail food market.
In 1992, the five leading food chains had 19 percent of grocery sales. In 1998, they had about 33 percent; and it was estimated at 42 percent last year with some projections of 60 percent soon. So what we are seeing is an astounding amount of concentration.
A good laboratory for the problems was in 1998-99, when we saw hog prices fall to 8 cents a pound. We think reduced competition alters the way retailers handle their pricing practices. I asked one retailer why didn't they drop their prices. They said: "Why should we? The product is moving off the shelves."
There has been a change in the way food is retailed. There's less sensitivity in the way things are priced. Retailers move because of competition and because of pressure. Concentration and vertical integration are a deadly combination.

Q. There have been some government projections this year that crop and livestock prices will strengthen and farm income will climb. And the Bush administration has indicated that it wants to defer any decision on emergency bailout money for distressed farmers, while Congress wants billions of dollars in emergency aid. How do you explain that?

A. I think they both know there's going to be a need for funding. I think the Bush administration wants to reduce the amount of support, so they don't want to lock it into the budget. They want to minimize the outlays and hope something happens to make it less necessary. The Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute a group based at Iowa State projected reduced farm incomes recently without emergency assistance. They have shown we should expect a significant decrease in farm incomes.

Q. The Mississippi River is threatening to flood parts of the farming heartland. But the threat doesn't seem to be affecting price projections or crop forecasts. Why?

A. The reason is that such a small proportion of the cropland is involved. There are levees all along much of the Mississippi. And even if those were breached, the amount of land inundated would be modest.
Plus, it's still early enough in the growing season for some late-planted crops to be put in. It's unlikely those phenomena will have a significant impact on farm production.

Q. Has the livestock crisis in Europe resulted in larger U.S. exports of meat to the European Union?

A. You would think all the destruction of animals in Europe would lead to more consumption of American meat, and it has, to a degree. But it is probably changing eating habits in Europe. Some may shift to poultry and seafood. On a short-term basis, the demand for meat has probably dropped. And if there is demand for meat, the supply will probably come from Europe and elsewhere. There's still quite a bit of production in Europe.
We are a potential supplier but we face two significant barriers. The E.U. still bars hormone-treated beef from the U.S., despite an adverse W.T.O. decision, so that limits our ability to fill those gaps. In addition, U.S. poultry exports to the E.U. are limited because the two governments have not yet resolved all poultry issues in a veterinary equivalency agreement, under which each recognizes the other's meat inspection systems as scientifically equivalent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil E. Harl 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); RETAILERS (84%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (73%); PRECISION FARMING (73%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (71%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (71%) AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%); INTEL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%) IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; HARL, NEIL E 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



806 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3464 words

HEADLINE: Workers, and Bosses, in a Visa Maze 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J. 

 BODY:
AT the Delhi Darbar restaurant, where the Indian expatriate community here comes to eat, the talk is not about the food, but about the uncertainty of life in America these days. Gathered around the table are four computer programmers, born in India and educated at top schools there, who now work in high-technology jobs in the New York area. Along with their wives and children, they came here nearly six years ago, on the promise of a job paying 10 times more than they could earn back home and the expectation of pursuing the American dream.
 But they cannot. The four -- and up to 420,000 others like them -- are caught up in a labyrinth of immigration laws, Congressional politics, the competing forces of the high-tech industry and organized labor and a tortuous, dysfunctional process of gaining "green cards" that allow permanent residency here. As a result, while they write the Java computer programs or manage the C++ computer projects that American business needs, they are never quite sure which end of the earth -- the United States or India -- they should call home. 
 "All of us are in limbo," said Shailesh Gala, one of the four, as they munched on chicken tikka and curries. "They created a false promise for us. Everyone who comes here has worked hard. We are waiting. Waiting. Waiting. Waiting, and nothing is happening." As heads nodded in agreement, another programmer, Bhushan Sethi, said: "We are migrating through legal ways. We are here when the country needed us. But when we need this country, it is not there. Give us the opportunity to stay."
The companies that hire these workers, called H-1B's for the visa that lets them work for six years while seeking green cards, say much the same. From Microsoft to Intel, from Goldman Sachs to Merrill Lynch, from Deloitte Consulting to Ernst & Young, H-1B's are being hired by the planeload to fill a gap in computer skills, especially at higher levels, because Americans have been cool to the computer science and engineering education that foreign students embrace.
The H-1B visa program has its champions. High-tech superstars like Bill Gates, Andy Grove and Scott McNealy have lobbied Congress to expand it. And holders of H-1B's, besides many faceless programmers, have included Linus Torvalds, 31, the Finnish inventor of the Linux operating system, a software rival to Microsoft's Windows, who recently traded his visa for a green card. 
But as the program has grown, so have its problems -- as even its backers acknowledge. 
Both a guest worker program and a road to a green card, the H-1B visa system has become a lightning rod of controversy over immigration policy. High-tech companies say the program is so riddled with bureaucratic delays that they have had to hire whole staffs to keep everything straight. The period for getting green cards now stretches for years, keeping the lives of H-1B's -- and the plans of corporations -- up in the air. After investing in and training an H-1B employee for up to six years, a company may well see him sent packing on the next airplane out. 
Moreover, under pressure from organized labor, Congress enacted complicated rules making it hard for corporations to promote H-1B workers or reward them with more challenging assignments.
The government isn't happy, either. Three agencies -- the Labor and State Departments and the Immigration and Naturalization Service -- administer the program, leading to regulatory gridlock and, according to a blistering report from the General Accounting Office, a breakdown in federal oversight.
As a result, nearly everyone involved with the program -- supporters and detractors -- complains about its flaws, often using words like "disaster" and "train wreck" as descriptions.
"The H-1B system needs to work for everybody and now it works for no one," said Jenifer Eisen Verdery, manager of education and work-force policy at Intel, the fifth-largest employer of H-1B's. "It doesn't work for the immigrant who has it. It doesn't work for the employers who hire them. It doesn't work for agencies that run it."
The H-1B program has its roots in temporary visa programs begun in the 1950's. But it took off in the 1980's and, again, in the late 1990's, as high-tech industries blossomed. 
Late last year, with hefty campaign contributions and a lobbying juggernaut, employers persuaded Congress to increase the number of H-1B visas granted annually to 195,000. And estimates show that the total number of H-1B's here could reach a high of 710,000 over the next three years. Compared with a national work force of 140 million, that number is minuscule. But it is a sizable and growing minority in information technology, where up to 20 percent of the five million high-tech workers are foreign-born, with about half of those coming from the H-1B program. It is too early to tell what impact, if any, the current economic downturn will have on the numbers.
HIGH-TECH companies say they have no choice but to hire H-1B's. "Of course, we make every effort to find skills within U.S. workers," said Zoanne Hennigan, director of immigration at Intel, which hires H-1B's as software, network and component design engineers. "But when there is a skill shortage, H-1B has been absolutely instrumental to making sure our business goals are met. The H-1B program is critical to the success of our company."
Such talk, however, holds little sway with organized labor and American-born computer programmers who have thrown obstacles in the program's way for the last decade. They contend that the program is just a way for high-tech companies, which are largely not unionized, to get programmers on the cheap, hold them captive in jobs where they have little voice over working conditions and jettison them when they are no longer needed. 
These groups have been among the most vocal in pointing out H-1B abuses -- cases of underpayment, fraud and exploitation of a vulnerable, compliant work force. But while waving the banner for worker protection, organized labor has succeeded only in convincing Congress to enact measures that have made the system more byzantine -- and unintentionally made it more open to potential abuse. For example, the paperwork required of high-tech companies to show that they have not replaced American citizens with H-1B's has become so onerous that, as a practical matter, it makes it difficult for H1-B's to change jobs.
"There isn't anything I like about the program," said Paul E. Almeida, president of the Department of Professional Employees at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "It looks to me like it is just used to suppress wages. These employers don't want to invest in workers if they don't have to. This opens the door to low-wage workers." 
SOME American programmers, who have started Web sites opposed to H-1B, share this fervor. One well-known site, created by John Miano, head of the Programmers Guild, a trade group, features banner headlines like "Slave Trade Still Alive in the U.S." 
"Most H-1B's are blithering incompetents," said Mr. Miano, adding that he has worked alongside H-1B's and has had to correct their mistakes. "They are unbelievably bad. They are not highly skilled, it's laughable. This is not a program for the best and the brightest. Anyone could be packaged by a lawyer and get an H-1B."
Whether a shortage of high-tech workers truly exists -- statistics are inconclusive -- H-1B visa holders are largely highly educated, government reports show. Many are educated at India's well-established engineering schools and, increasingly, at American universities. 
Almost 98 percent of them have bachelor's degrees or higher, and 41.5 percent have master's degrees or higher. The jobs generally pay $45,000 to $150,000 -- versus a more typical $6,000 for similar jobs in India, the biggest source of supply. (While the vast majority of H-1B's are in high-tech industries, a small number of the visas are issued for teachers, medical personnel, artists, fashion models and others.) 
About one-quarter of high-tech H-1B's were already here before getting their visas, typically attending American universities on student visas. Government data from 1998, the most recent available, shows that 35 percent of all high-tech master's degrees at American universities went to foreign nationals, as did about half of all high-tech doctorates. 
In Silicon Valley, many companies recruit these foreign students -- many of whom would otherwise have to leave -- right after graduation. Corporations also send recruiters to India, find workers through Internet job postings or bring them here from previous projects overseas. And some companies, both in high technology and on Wall Street, hire H-1B's from consulting firms working as subcontractors on specific technical projects. 
"The H-1B program takes the creme de la creme," said Sheela Murthy, an immigration lawyer in Owings Mills, Md., and a native of India. "These are not people who are coming here to clean toilets. Many of them have master's degrees and attended top-notch universities. They are coming with a dream and a desire to do something with their lives."
Yet in accepting the visas, high-tech workers often walk into a nightmare. The visa allows workers and their families to stay here for six years, but the lag in getting green cards has grown to four, five or six years. As a result, thousands of H-1B holders, many of whom filed for green cards immediately upon receiving their H-1B's, are bumping against that six-year limit. Some may receive one-year extensions, but others may be forced to leave.
Employers are equally anxious. "An employer has found a person and wants them to stay, and what then, after six years you have to let them go?" said Theresa Cardinal Brown, associate director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.
The wait for green cards results not only from delays at the immigration service, which now has 900,000 people in its green-card backlog, but also from supply-and-demand imbalances. At a time when the United States is admitting up to 195,000 new H-1B's annually, there are only 140,000 employment-based green cards available annually for H-1B's -- and their spouses, who are usually admitted on a different visa, an H-4. 
There are few specific criteria for obtaining a green card -- an employer must simply certify that the applicant has needed skills, and applicants must not have criminal records. The I.N.S. keeps no statistics on the number of H-1B's who eventually get green cards. 
The squeeze is tightest for citizens of India and China, who represent 57 percent of all H-1B's. Until recently, those two nations were each allotted 9,800 green cards, the same number set aside for citizens of any other country -- for instance, Iceland or Belgium. Late last year, Congress lifted those quotas, allowing for the transfer of unused allocations from small countries to larger ones. But regulations to put the changed law into effect are still in the works.
"The H-1B program is mismanaged," said B. Lindsay Lowell, an immigration specialist at Georgetown University. "People don't think through the connections between the temporary visa program and permanent residency, and it leaves people in these hazily defined roles. There is backlog on backlog. We are increasing the numbers willy-nilly in a system that cannot process the paperwork, and it is a disaster."
By contrast, other countries, particularly Canada, are actively wooing these same workers. Starting in 1998, Canada began to speed up its processing of high-tech workers, allowing them to gain permanent residency in a matter of months if they score enough points on a ranking that considers their education and the needs of the country. Australia and New Zealand have adopted similar changes, and England, Ireland, Germany and Austria are relaxing their rules, too. 
THE I.N.S. is aware of the competition: "Canada has made it a national policy to increase their market share of high-tech workers," said Jacquelyn Bednarz, a special policy assistant at the I.N.S. "They are courting them with attractive ads. They are welcoming them and aggressively pursuing them."
For H-1B's in the United States, the protracted process has practical consequences: They must pay taxes, including Social Security, with no assurance of ever receiving the future benefits. Their spouses are not allowed to work. They raise children as Americans, even though they may, one day, have to go to a country that is foreign to them. 
Because the visa is issued for a specific job, many H1-B's fear that they will hurt their chances of getting green cards if they try to switch employers, despite new rules allowing them to do that. As a result, until they get their green cards, many H-1B's remain tied to their first employers. 
"The bond between me and my employer is stronger than between me and my wife," said Murali Krishna, who works in Silicon Valley. "Break the umbilical cord and let me come and work for who I want to and negotiate what I can get. That way employers can't exploit me. If you want to be legal, you cannot be ambitious and grow."
Similarly, as a practical matter, it is impossible for H-1B's to become high-tech entrepreneurs, no matter how much brain power and drive they may have, because they would lose their green-card sponsors. "I have great business ideas, but I cannot start a company," said Mr. Sethi, one of those dining at the Delhi Darbar restaurant. "The environment in the U.S. makes you think about becoming an entrepreneur. But this process cuts you down."
Many H-1B's say they live in a constant fear of being deported, should they lose their jobs. The I.N.S. has said it plans to be lenient in the current high-tech downturn, but if an H-1B worker is out of work for more than 10 days, he is "out of status" and can be told to leave immediately. While the I.N.S. has had no reports of deportations recently, serious life decisions, like buying a home and car, having children, and firming up a career, are made more difficult by such uncertainty.
Consider S. Samuels, an H-1B computer programmer who spoke on condition that his first name not be used. He came to the United States to get an M.B.A., after graduating from India's top engineering school, the Indian Institute of Technology. That was more than five years ago. Now, with a pregnant wife and one child who knows only of life here, he is worried.
"If a citizen or a green-card holder loses their job, they lose time or money," Mr. Samuels said. "For us, we can lose our whole life."
Moreover, the lengthy green-card process makes H-1B's much more vulnerable to abuse and exploitation, like underpayment or a practice called "benching," in which H-1B's working for computer consulting firms are not paid for time spent waiting between assignments. Many of these consulting firms, also called "body shops," act as middlemen, hiring H-1B's and sending them on temporary assignments for Fortune 500 companies.
While reports of "body shop" abuse are common among H-1B's, it is hard to come up with hard evidence, since workers fear being sent back to their home country if they challenge their employer. But some have. 
Earlier this month, in response to a suit filed by an H1-B worker, a California superior court ordered a Silicon Valley consulting firm, Compubahn, to drop a restrictive noncompete clause requiring H-1B's to pay the firm $25,000 if they quit. The firm is appealing. H-1B's have complained in computer chat rooms about this practice elsewhere. 
Fraud in obtaining visas has also been found, including one tragic case in Berkeley, Calif., in which three Indian girls were brought in on H-1B visas for sexual purposes. The case came to light in November 1999 after one of the three, a 17-year-old pregnant girl, died of carbon monoxide poisoning in the rented apartment the girls shared. Last month, the landlord, Lakireddy Reddy, 63, a native of India worth more than $50 million, pleaded guilty in federal court in Oakland, as did two of his relatives. His two sons have also been charged in the case, in which the group is accused of fraudulently bringing Indian nationals to the United States for cheap labor and sex.
BEYOND the headlines, it is difficult to determine how much abuse has occurred. By most accounts, it is a small but troubling aspect of the program. In the 2000 fiscal year, the Department of Labor received 140 complaints from H-1B workers and ordered back wages of $1.6 million to 339 people. But the statistics may understate the problem, because H-1B workers' dependence on their employers may make them reticent. "There is a huge disincentive for H-1B's to complain," said a labor department enforcement official. "They are very unwilling to come to us."
One advocate of a speedier green-card process is Mr. Torvalds, the inventor of the Linux computer operating system, who received his green card five months ago. Mr. Torvalds, who lives in Silicon Valley and is chief scientist at the Transmeta Corporation, which sponsored him for a green card, was luckier than most -- he came from Finland, a country with no waiting list. 
Yet even he faced the same difficulties as many other H-1B's. He paid cash for his home to avoid problems in getting a mortgage; he was put in the "problem queue" at United States Customs whenever returning from overseas trips, adding hours to his journey; and it took him more than nine months to get a California driver's license because of the need for immigration paperwork.
"People who end up coming on the program are pretty much at the mercy of the system," Mr. Torvalds said in an interview by e-mail. "That makes people nervous. It can cause total disruption in your life if the six-year clock runs out and you have to go back to a life you've long since left behind. That uncertainty is the nasty kind. 
"Right now," he added, "the whole process is nothing but bureaucracy, with nobody driving it, and nobody really responsible."
On the front lines of many of these problems are employers, who pay $1,000 for the visa, an additional $3,500 to $5,000 in legal fees and untold dollars in employee time to hire H-1B's. Under pressure from organized labor, Congress enacted a cap in 1990 to limit the number of H-1B visas. And, in the mid-1990's, labor pressed Congress to require that all H-1B employers file a "labor condition application" with the Labor Department to protect American workers from being displaced.
The paperwork for this application has grown; the regulations for it now run to 150 pages. At a minimum, an employer must show he has advertised the job to the local work force, is not paying an H-1B any more or any less than comparable workers, is not using H-1B's as strikebreakers and has sought to hire an American citizen first. As a result, the hiring of an H-1B can take months. 
One Wall Street firm has employees who are designated to process H-1B's, including counseling for the bosses of H-1B workers to understand the complications. "They have no idea of the intricacies of the process," said a representative of the firm, which asked not to be named. "And explaining it can last up to a couple of hours."
This mountain of paperwork also discourages companies from promoting H-1B workers or transferring them to another job site. 
"One of the major problems is that an employee is locked into a post," said Sandra J. Boyd, a lobbyist for the National Association of Manufacturers, a trade group. "If they want to move up the ladder, all this paperwork has to start again."
SOME employers, especially those in small companies, have even adopted a no-H-1B policy. A search of popular Internet high-tech employment sites like www.Dice.com finds dozens of solicitations for software engineers with the following designation: "U.S. citizens and green-card holders only." Calls to recruiters placing these ads resulted in the same responses -- that many employers do not want to face the costs, paperwork or delays that come with hiring an H-1B. 
"A lot of companies want someone right away," said one recruiter, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Time kills these deals."
So does money. Last December, Congress increased H-1B visa fees from $500 to $1,000, to pay for government-sponsored job training programs for high-tech workers. In the current fiscal year, the Department of Labor estimates that it will receive $180 million for these training programs and $213 million next year. 
But will this money go toward training United States citizens to take the highly-skilled jobs now filled by H-1B's? It is hard to say. The training program is still in its infancy. So far, a large portion of the money is going into basic programs to train disadvantaged youths, single parents and the unemployed in entry-level computer jobs -- jobs not filled by H-1B's, but largely by American workers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shailesh Gala, an H-1B visa holder, with his wife, Varsha, and daughter, Rashi. The visa system "created a false promise," he said. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times); The Web site of the Programmers Guild, above, condemns the H-1B program, which lets foreign workers fill U.S. jobs. Other sites support the idea. (pg. 1); High-tech industries have attracted Indian immigrants to places like Iselin, N.J. Women tried on wedding saris, above, at Libaas, a local shop. Iselin, in Middlesex County, supports many other Indian businesses, like a restaurant, left. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Bringing Expertise From Abroad"H1-B visas have been rising steadily as more technology companies look abroad to find the specialized workers they need. India, with its longstanding tradition of science and engineering education, has been a ready source of systems analysts and programmers. Graph shows number of H-1B visas granted from 1989-1999. VISAS GRANTED, BY COMPANY, OCT. 1999 TO FEB. 2000 Motorola: 618Oracle: 455Cisco Systems: 398Mastech: 389Intel: 367Microsoft: 362Rapidigm: 357Syntel: 337Wipro: 327Tata Consultancy Services: 320PricewaterhouseCoopers: 272People.com Consultants: 261Lucent Technologies: 255Infosys Technologies: 239Nortel Networks: 234 SHARE OF VISAS GRANTED, BY COUNTRY, MAY 1998 TO JULY 1999* Other countries: 27.8Japan: 2.0Taiwan: 2.1South Korea: 2.3Philippines: 2.7Canada: 3.0Britain: 3.2China: 9.3India: 47.5% *Figures do not add to 100 because of rounding(Sources: State Department; Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); C++ PROGRAMMING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LOBBYING (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (72%); REFUGEES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ORGANIZED LABOR; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); DELOITTE LLP (53%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE; STATE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%) WAYNE, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); TAIWAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



807 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Check Is In the Mail. Almost.

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE economy has been looking shaky lately, and like it or not, Congress is on the case.
 Eager to do their part to keep the long expansion alive, members of both parties agree that they should put a substantial amount of money into the hands of consumers this year through an immediate tax cut that would supplement the longer-term plan championed by President Bush. 
 A few months ago, they were talking about a tax cut for 2001 of as little as $6 billion, an amount that would be little more than symbolic in an economy that produces $10 trillion of goods and services annually. But even though it remains unclear how dire the outlook is -- on Friday the government reported that the economy expanded at a reasonably healthy 2 percent annual rate in the first three months of the year -- the stimulus package has ballooned to somewhere between $60 billion and $85 billion, enough to make a modest difference. 
The problem now is that Congress can't agree on how to give the money away.
It could mail out one-time rebate checks. It could cut income tax rates and encourage workers to reduce the amount of money they have withheld from their paychecks by a corresponding amount. It could declare a holiday on payroll taxes -- those deductions for Social Security and Medicare. Or it could try something really unorthodox, like cutting capital gains taxes to energize the stock market, an idea floated this month by Republicans who think the key to prosperity is held by the shell-shocked investor class. 
But each option has serious practical complications. Each is also saddled with political or ideological baggage that has contributed to the partisan divisions over how best to proceed. The difficulty of reaching agreement underscores one of the central questions about how government should address the ups and downs of the business cycle: whether tax policy is always going to be so slow-moving that it can never be an effective anti-recession tool, especially when contrasted with the Federal Reserve's ability to slash interest rates quickly. 
"Even if Congress works at breakneck speed, it's hard to imagine anyone having a check in their hands before July or August at the earliest, and by then we may be past the worst," said Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research group. 
Just because the worst might be past (though that is by no means certain) doesn't mean a recovering economy couldn't benefit from the pick-me-up that a tax cut would provide. But what kind of tax cut? 
Like many Democrats, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut favors sending 200 million taxpayers -- people who are paying payroll or income taxes -- a one-time $300 check, an approach that would cost $60 billion. Supporters say the rebate is simple and, because it gives the same amount to everyone, progressive. But economists have come to a consensus that one-time rebates are not a very efficient form of stimulus. They cite research that shows that people tend to save a relatively large portion of any money they consider a one-time windfall, rather than spend it. And getting consumers to spend is the whole point of the exercise. 
The data suggests "that making a tax cut explicitly one-shot rather than continuing considerably reduces but does not eliminate its effect on spending," said Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton. Mr. Blinder studied a number of cases, including the last big rebate, in 1975, when Congress and President Ford agreed to send out one-time checks for 10 percent of the previous year's tax liability for each worker, up to $200 per person. He found that a temporary change in tax rates yielded only about half the stimulative bang for the buck of a permanent tax cut, and that a rebate yielded only about 38 percent as much of an impact. 
But if a permanent tax change packs a more immediate economic punch, what form should it take? Some Democrats are pushing to cut the lowest income tax rate to 10 percent from 15 percent. Their approach would put more money in the hands of all taxpayers, since everyone's income is taxed at least partly at the lowest rate. But it would have a more noticeable impact on lower-income workers, since they would presumably need the money more than wealthier people and be more likely to spend it. 
Most Republicans, though, insist that all rates, not just the lowest bracket, should be cut. Such a move would mean that people with the biggest tax bills would get the biggest tax cut -- a matter of simple fairness for Republicans. Democrats object on both ideological and economic grounds. There is no reason to give a big tax cut to the wealthy when it is lower-income people who are most at risk from the slowdown, they say. 
As a practical matter, any immediate tax cut has become intertwined with Mr. Bush's plan. In part by focusing attention on the need for tax stimulus this year, Democrats have drained some support away from the president's proposal. Mr. Bush conceded last week that he would not get the full $1.6 trillion he had requested for the decade starting next year, and he probably will not even get the $1.4 trillion he floated as a compromise. 
Whatever form the stimulus eventually takes, it is probably wise not to assume that its restorative powers will cure the economy. "The problem with all these proposals is that the notion that tax policy this month can stimulate the economy next month is unrealistic at best," said William Gale, an economist at the Brookings Institution, the research organization. "If we could control people's behaviors that well, we wouldn't be in this situation in the first place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pondering the inevitable on April 16. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); MEDICARE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); SALES REBATES (57%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



808 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The World: Missionaries; 
On a Frontier Of Danger

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
AMERICAN missionaries working in Latin America have always had to contend with obstacles, starting with distrustful local churches and governments. But the death of a Baptist missionary and her infant daughter, shot down in Peru on April 20 after their plane was confused with that of drug traffickers, is a sobering reminder that even as the success of their evangelization effort has grown, so have the risks faced by the more than 10,000 American missionaries now in the region.
 Since they first began heading south in the mid-1800's, American missionaries have had to labor under the twin burdens of being foreigners and, for the most part, Protestant. In a region where the original Iberian conquerors themselves imposed Catholicism by "the sword and the cross," it was probably inevitable that the Americans would end up being stigmatized as agents of cultural and political imperialism. 
 Nonetheless, in recent years, Protestantism, especially of the evangelical variety, has made remarkable gains in countries ranging from Guatemala to Brazil, most notably in cities. As a result, according to David Stoll, the author of "Is Latin America Turning Protestant?: The Politics of Evangelical Growth," "the frontier of the faith is now out in rural areas" like the Amazon, where Veronica and James Bowers were living when their plane was attacked.
But missionary organizations that choose to work in such remote areas, where the state's presence is weak and the population is largely Indian, have been regarded with a particularly suspicious eye. In country after country, groups like the New Tribes Mission and the Summer Institute of Linguistics, a branch of the Wycliffe Bible Translators, have been accused of spying for the C.I.A. or of clandestinely prospecting for gold, diamonds, emeralds or uranium.
"We are fully aware that we have been accused of being duplicitous," said David Oltrogge, director of Latin American Initiatives for the Wycliffe Bible Translators, which has compiled dictionaries in more than 300 American Indian languages. "But our motivation is to translate the Bible into as many languages as we can."
On the other hand, because American missionary groups have modern organizational and record-keeping skills, the United States Agency for International Development sometimes awards contracts to their local affiliates, and a congressional investigation in the 1970's found that many missionaries returning to the United States were debriefed by the C.I.A.
In recent years, "those criticisms have dwindled to insignificance compared to the problem of drug lords and paramilitaries killing people who will not cooperate with them," said Dr. Stoll, a professor of anthropology at Middlebury College. But the overall level of danger faced by missionaries -- including kidnapping for ransom -- has grown, especially in Peru's neighbor Colombia, where some organizations are pulling back from "portions of the country that it is ridiculous even to think of entering," as Dr. Oltrogge put it. 
Many American missionary groups working in Latin America began their activities in Asia or Africa, where they served as bearers of Western values. When they first arrived in Latin America, they quickly discovered they were on different terrain: this region is part of the West, and Christianity is the native religion.
Still, until recently the relationship between Protestant missionaries and the local Catholic hierarchy was largely one of mutual hostility and suspicion. 
"Even today, the majority of Protestant American missionaries are more likely to be conservative evangelicals than from the so-called mainline denominations," said Robert T. Coote of the Overseas Ministries Study Center. "We grew up thinking Catholicism couldn't possibly be right, that it was harmful even."
During the 1970's and into the 1980's, military regimes were "interested in ways of clipping the wings of the Catholic Church," as Ralph della Cava of Columbia University puts it, and in Protestantism they thought they had found an ideal vehicle. Like religious minorities in other parts of the world, Protestants sought to cooperate with whatever government was in power -- rendering unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's.
For Roman Catholic missionaries from the United States, many of them drawn to Latin America by the theology of liberation, the situation was almost exactly the opposite. The 1980 rape and murder of three American nuns and a lay worker by soldiers in El Salvador was only the most grotesque example of American missionaries suffering the same repression as the liberals among their Latin American brethren.
Today, the byword for American missionaries in the region appears to be "cultural sensitivity," said Mr. Coote. Particularly among Protestants, "Christian anthropology" has developed, aimed at making proselytizing less intrusive -- and more effective.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Ecuadorian child marches in a procession. (Pablo Corral/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (86%); NATIVE AMERICANS (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); LINGUISTICS (64%); ESPIONAGE (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; EVANGELISM; MISSIONARIES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; BOWERS, VERONICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PERU (94%); BRAZIL (92%); GUATEMALA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) PERU; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



809 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
The Real Wolf

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Recently I received a letter from an economist I respect, chiding me for my "Naderite" columns on the California energy crisis. He just didn't believe that market manipulation by power companies could possibly be an important issue; it sounded too much to him like the sort of thing one hears from knee-jerk leftists, who blame greedy capitalists for every problem, be it third-world poverty or high apartment rents. The left has cried "Wolf!" so many times that sensible people have learned to discount such claims.
 But now a bona fide wolf has arrived, whose predatory behavior is doing terrible damage to our most populous state -- and nobody will believe it. 
 True, California would be heading for a summer of power shortages even if it had never deregulated. And even if there was workable competition in the wholesale electricity market, prices in that market would spike during periods of peak demand, transferring billions of dollars from either taxpayers or consumers to the generators.
But the evidence is now overwhelming that there isn't workable competition in California's power market, and that the actions of generators "gaming the system" have greatly magnified the crisis. The key fact is that California has somehow remained in a state of more or less continuous power shortage and very high wholesale prices regardless of the level of demand. A rash of outages has kept the electricity market conveniently -- and very profitably -- short of supply even during periods of low demand, when there ought to be lots of excess capacity. 
As Frank Wolak, the Stanford economist who also advises the state's power grid, has pointed out, an outage at a power plant is a lot like an employee calling in sick. You can't tell directly whether he is really sick or has chosen to take the day off for other reasons, but you can look for circumstantial evidence. And such evidence has convinced Mr. Wolak that "generators use forced outages strategically to withhold capacity from the market" -- a view shared by a growing number of other researchers.
Which brings us to the latest move by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. On Wednesday, the commission apparently decided to offer California some relief, and put new price caps in place on the California electricity market. I say "apparently" because the more you look at the plan the less likely it seems to be any help at all. Indeed, the measure was passed on a 2-to-1 vote, with William Massey -- the one commissioner who has been sympathetic to calls for price controls -- voting against it on the grounds that it would be ineffectual.
What's wrong with FERC's plan? First, it caps prices only in emergency conditions -- ignoring the fact that electricity prices have stayed at hard-to-explain levels even when there is no emergency. In effect, the plan is laid out as if the electricity market were really competitive, in spite of all the evidence that it is not.
Second, even those emergency price caps are full of loopholes, offering extensive opportunities for what Mr. Wolak calls "megawatt laundering" -- selling power to affiliated companies that for one reason or another are exempted from the price controls (for example, the controls do not apply to "imports" from neighboring states), then selling it back into the California market. Severin Borenstein of the University of California Energy Institute adds that because the allowed price depends on the cost of generation at the least efficient plant, generators will have a clear incentive to produce inefficiently: "I predict we will find some plants we never heard of before that are suddenly operating again, and they will be pretty inefficient."
The general verdict seems to be that this is not a serious plan. There are serious proposals to mitigate the crisis out there -- indeed, last fall Mr. Wolak submitted a proposal that was well received by other experts -- but FERC has ignored all of them.
The charitable interpretation is that FERC still doesn't get it, that it just can't bring itself to believe that this time the wolf is real. The uncharitable interpretation is that last week's action was meant to fail. The Medley Report, an online newsletter, calls the FERC plan "a grand exercise in posturing without substance . . . a very clever temporary move by the Bush administration to deflect any political fallout" from the looming disaster.
Whatever the explanation, the plain fact is that FERC and the administration have yet to offer California any significant relief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (73%); WHOLESALE PRICES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



810 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Economic Growth Revives Momentum

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
After two of the best weeks for stocks in months, investors took some profits last Monday, but plunged back in by week's end when a report on economic growth in the first quarter showed surprising strength. Investors were also buoyed by good news on consumer spending as home sales in March grew at their fastest pace ever. 
 Technology stocks were the one sector that continued to show weakness as more job cuts were announced by industry stalwarts like JDS Uniphase and Compaq Computer. In another sign that some big companies are still worried about their prospects, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing announced a pre-emptive job cut, despite solid earnings. 
 Blue chips did the best, with the Dow Jones industrials climbing to 10,810.05, up 230.20 points, or 2.2 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was also up, finishing at 1,253.05, up 10.07, or 0.8 percent. Only the Nasdaq fell, ending at 2,075.68, down 87.73, or 4.1 percent. 
 Treasury prices lost ground on fears that the better-than-expected economic growth makes it less likely that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates further. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 5.32 percent, from 5.29 percent a week earlier. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" PepsiCoNYSE: PEPThe company reported its sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings growth, as first-quarter net income grew 18 percent. After years of trailing Coca-Cola, its stock price is starting to catch up.Friday's Close: $44.10Week's Change: +6.88%EST. '01 P/E: 26.82 Compaq ComputerNYSE: CPQAside from its first quarter coming up short of Wall Street's already lowered expectations by 1 cent, the company plans to eliminate 10 percent of its work force, more than it had announced last month.Friday's Close: $18.20Week's Change: -15.39%EST. '01 P/E: 27.96 I.B.M.NYSE: IBMThe biggest computer company intensified its battle with Oracle for supremacy in database software, announcing a plan to acquire Informix's database operations for $1 billion.Friday's Close: $116.20Week's Change: +1.19%EST. '01 P/E: 23.82 General DynamicsNYSE: GDThe military contractor agreed to buy the rival shipbuilder Newport News Shipbuilding for $2.1 billion, and create a company that would produce all of the Navy's aircraft carriers and submarines.Friday's Close: $76.50Week's Change: +6.40%EST. '01 P/E: 16.93 WorldComNNM: WCOMThe long-distance phone company gave investors hope by reporting first-quarter profits in line with forecasts, while reiterating 2001 revenue estimates.Friday's Close: $18.71Week's Change: -1.73%EST. '01 P/E: 16.78 IntelNNM: INTCThe company's top executive said it would go ahead with $7.5 billion in capital spending this year despite the soft economy. He said there were signs that the market had reached bottom.Friday's Close: $30.18Week's Change: -6.94%EST. '01 P/E: 53.23 Procter & GambleNYSE: PGThe consumer products company said it would consider selling its Jif and Crisco product lines, swapping them for other businesses or putting them in a joint venture, because they no longer fit the company's strategy.Friday's Close: $59.83Week's Change: +3.16%EST. '01 P/E: 19.26 VeriSignNNM: VRSNThe Internet company, which has so far dodged the effects of an economic slowdown that has forced other software and Internet-related companies to lower sales forecasts, reported strong first-quarter sales.Friday's Close: $51.91Week's Change: +1.94%EST. '01 P/E: 87.69 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JDS UNIPHASE CORP (57%); 3M CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%) NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (57%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (57%); MMM (SWX) (57%); MMM (NYSE) (57%); MMM (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



811 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
In a Default Record, A California Flavor

BYLINE:  By Rick Gladstone 

 BODY:
Here is a statistic that at first glance should stimulate the salivary glands of bankruptcy lawyers and buyers of failed businesses: In the first quarter of 2001, the Standard & Poor's credit rating agency says, 48 companies worldwide defaulted on $37 billion of debt, making it the worst quarter for defaults -- or, depending on how you look at it, the best. Of the defaulters, 41 were American companies. 
 To put that first-quarter total in some perspective, it equals 87 percent of the $42.3 billion in corporate defaults for all of 2000, which was an annual record. Based on first-quarter trends, the 2001 default ratio, a measure of corporate financial weakness that divides defaults by the number of corporate debt issuers, would be the worst since the 1991 recession year. 
 Behind the red ink, however, were some special circumstances. More than one-third of the total default amount came from Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison, which have amassed enormous debt because of California's energy deregulation crisis. Rick Gladstone

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (88%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); CORPORATE BONDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAWYERS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (65%); ENERGY REGULATION (65%); DEREGULATION (65%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (65%) CREDIT; DEFAULTING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (56%); PG&E CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO; PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (56%); PCG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%)

PERSON: GLADSTONE, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



812 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: LIVING ON WELFARE: A CLOCK IS TICKING 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: WALTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
When welfare changes came to this hamlet in the Catskill Mountains, the clock began ticking on Jennifer Mosher's lifetime entitlement to a welfare check.
 Since then, Ms. Mosher, 23, a single mother of two, has learned to drive. She has inherited a clunker of a car, held down a part-time job for an unprecedented four months ringing up groceries at a supermarket 25 miles away. She has thanked the stars for a baby sitter who agreed to match her erratic work schedule, a 10 a.m. shift one day, a 2:30 p.m. shift another. 
 But even as she has met the requirements of the government's latest welfare laws, the clock has kept ticking: Ms. Mosher does not make enough to get off welfare. If nothing changes, she will reach her five-year lifetime limit on cash benefits by the end of this year. Once that happens, state officials have said, she will receive vouchers to help pay the rent and buy food, though no one seems to know exactly how that will work. 
In Ms. Mosher's story lies the tale of what it is to be poor in rural America, where the usual hurdles to self-sufficiency are complicated by the difficulty of finding work and the difficulty of getting to work. A lot of poor women here in Delaware County grew up without learning how to drive, much less having a car of their own.
Delaware County has a larger story to tell. Since new rules signed by President Bill Clinton went into effect at the end of 1996, welfare rolls have plummeted here and all over the state. Unlike other counties, Delaware is able today to offer a rare glimpse into life after welfare. This year the county's leading social services group, Delaware Opportunities, released a survey -- thought to be the only countywide study in New York State -- of people leaving the welfare rolls. 
The study found, for instance, that after leaving welfare, families in the county continued to fall behind on rent. They were just as likely to have their lights shut off, almost as likely to live without a phone and more likely to have no food in the house. After welfare, survey respondents said, they were more likely to turn to a food bank, a church or friends. Or, they said, they simply "ate less."
The study found that poverty remained a familiar companion among those who left the rolls. The median income of those who left welfare in 2000 was about $11,000, and 70 percent remained below the poverty line, a little over $14,000 for a family of three. Those who had left welfare a year earlier were slightly better off: 45 percent lived in poverty. Only half of those who had left the rolls were working at the time of the survey. Around 30 percent depended on disability benefits. Those who found work were distinguished in one important way: the vast majority of them had a car.
National studies mirror many of these findings. Most of those who have left the welfare rolls have found work, and single mothers in particular have had a marked increase in income. But the research has also turned up a picture of hardship. A recent study by the Urban Institute, a liberal research group, of 40,000 families in 13 states found that about a third of the women who left welfare in 1997 said they had to reduce the size of meals or skip them completely because they did not have enough food.
Delaware County is a 1,460-square-mile terrain of rolling hills and frigid serpentine streams. Most of its 47,000 residents live in small villages separated from one another by miles of narrow, winding roads. It is the fourth-poorest county in the state, its median family income hovering around $24,000. There are no big factories near here, and the few jobs, at supermarkets, two state university campuses and fast-food restaurants, are sprinkled throughout the county. The economy that boomed elsewhere did little more than whimper here.
But since 1996, Delaware County's welfare rolls dropped by 66 percent. Rural counties all over the state saw their caseloads drop by more than 50 percent, and the statewide average was around 48 percent. 
Still, 71,000 families remain on welfare throughout the state and are running up against the time limit at the end of this year. More than a fourth of them are working, just like Ms. Mosher.
Jennifer Mosher's trajectory is not all that unusual. She was raised by a doting grandmother in Margaretville, on the county's southern edge. She dropped out of school in the ninth grade. She was pregnant at 18. She married at 19, to a man who she said made all the decisions at home, from buying groceries to dressing the children. 
When he left her, Ms. Mosher was utterly lost. She recalls the first time she went grocery shopping by herself. "I just stood there," she recalled. "I didn't know what to buy."
The next time, her grandmother went along, showing her what to buy, counseling her on bargains. 
Life on her own has been overwhelming. She says she was fired from her first job, at a local hospital, because the baby sitter showed up only sporadically.
She says she was evicted from the apartment she lived in because she let her sister move in with her boyfriend in tow.
Welfare reform has shined a harsh light on how stuck welfare mothers can be in a place like this. Job options are few: a dollar store, a McDonald's, a market and not much else. The supermarket where Ms. Mosher works is 25 miles away, in Oneonta.
There are no reliable bus lines in the Catskills. At one time, women like Ms. Mosher could hitch a ride every now and then to take the kids to the doctor or to visit the welfare office in Delhi, the county seat. The work requirements of the current welfare law have rendered useless that way of life.
While the federal welfare law allows state and local governments to use federal welfare money to help people get to and from work, transportation policy is hardly uniform. A recent study by the Greater Upstate Law Project, a statewide advocacy group, found that in some counties welfare recipients were stripped of benefits because they could not get to their jobs. In others, those on welfare were expected to walk up to four miles each way before the county would help pay for transportation. 
In this respect, Delaware County has proven to be especially creative. A van service, run by Delaware Opportunities, ferries people back and forth from job interviews and work assignments. Old, rotting cars are fixed up and sold at cut-rate prices.
That's how Ms. Mosher got her charcoal 1990 Ford Tempo. The car, she readily admits, has been her greatest blessing but also her biggest headache. She pays Delaware Opportunities $50 a month in car payments. Gas and her $130-a-month car insurance payment eat a hole in her wallet. Every other week, it seems, she has to take the car to the garage. Ball bearings need to be fixed. One front tire is balding precariously. Just talking about it one recent morning made her crave a cigarette.
Her paychecks vary -- $80 on a bad week, when she is scheduled to work barely 14 hours, $140 on a good one. The county still sends $300 in food stamps every month, the same as before she got a job, but only $128 a month in cash assistance, less than a third of what she got before she began working. The county pays for the baby sitter, and Ms. Mosher is responsible for a fourth of her rent, $96 a month. Welfare reform was supposed to make it easier for single mothers to collect child support. That has not happened yet for Ms. Mosher.
What has happened is that she has gotten a bank account, a new apartment and friends to commiserate with at the supermarket. She speaks the language of self-sufficiency. "If something has to be paid," she declares, "I pay it."
But here in Ms. Mosher's home, a gray clapboard apartment building pressed hard against the hills, self-sufficiency seems just this side of chaos. Dishes are piled in the sink. The living room carpet is awash in flecks of Doritos, dolls, a red fire truck and bright articles of children's clothes.
A social worker from Delaware Opportunities, Peg Gancio, sits on the floor, gently asking Ms. Mosher to estimate how much she spends on gasoline every week. Ms. Mosher sits on the sofa, hunched over a calculator. Her children, Kristen, 4, and Archie, 2, climb on top of her as if she were a jungle gym. The question of gas money is confounding. She has other things on her mind. A bunch of bills are due in a matter of days, and it's Kristen's birthday. Ms. Mosher still cannot afford a phone.
"Do you want me to stop by tomorrow and help you do your budget?" Ms. Gancio asks.
Ms. Mosher looks at the carpet. "Yes," she murmurs. "I don't know how." In fact, she admits, there was a time she didn't know how she would manage life on her own. When she dropped out of school, she figured she would stay with her grandmother. When she married, she figured the same of her husband. 
When the new welfare law was first explained to her some years ago, she figured she had time. When she did everything the new law asked of her, she figured she was making progress.
And yet, the clock keeps ticking. She says she has no idea what she will do if she is still here by December, working part time at the supermarket. She talks of maybe getting out of this tiny village, so far from anything. "I sit there trying to imagine: I'm still sitting in Walton, and they cut me off, and my job is giving me only 14 hours," she says. "I think about it all the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peg Gancio, right, a social worker, visiting Jennifer Mosher, a welfare recipient in Walton, N.Y., and her children, Kristen and Archie, to plan the family budget. Ms. Mosher's cash benefits are to expire at year's end. (Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. 44) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: On the Wane"The number of welfare cases in New York State declined significantly. Here are some representative areas: FEB. 1996New York State: 438,291New York City: 304,883Delaware County: 2,202Erie County: 19,243Nassau County: 7,372Schoharie County: 201Ulster County: 2,130Westchester County: 11,335 FEB. 1999New York State: 228,109New York City: 164,066Delaware County: 901Erie County: 10,048Nassau County: 3,158Schoharie County: 59Ulster County: 893Westchester County: 6,208 CHANGENew York State: -48.0%New York City: -46.2Delaware County: -59.1Erie County: -47.8Nassau County: -57.2Schoharie County: -70.6Ulster County: -58.1Westchester County: -45.2 (Sources: 1996 Social Statistics; 2001 Temporary and Disability Assistance Monthly Statistics)(pg. 44) Map of New York highlighting Delaware County: Once off welfare in Delaware County, many remain poor. (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); POVERTY RATES (63%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (59%) URBAN INSTITUTE 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%) SENGUPTA, SOMINI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (73%) UNITED STATES (95%) DELAWARE COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



813 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1060 words

PERSON: Charles Schreiner III 

HEADLINE: Charles Schreiner III, 74, Dies; Colorful Texas Rancher Fought to Save Longhorn 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Charles Schreiner III, who as he led a fight to preserve the legendary Texas longhorn breed became a Lone Star State symbol himself, died of congestive heart failure on April 22 at a San Antonio hospital.
 He was 74 and lived in Mountain Home, Tex. 
 Known by the nickname Three, he had perhaps his most colorful moment on the evening of April 13, 1980, when he celebrated the centennial of the day his grandfather (a Texas ranger, naturally) acquired the sprawling Y.O. Ranch by riding Ranger, his giant pet longhorn steer with four-foot horns, into the great hall of his ranch's main lodge.
"We're trying to preserve a way of life," Mr. Schreiner explained. 
Indeed, his life might be seen as an inspired scramble to sustain the Texas of legend. He started the Texas Longhorn Breeders' Association of America in 1964 to preserve the lean and lanky cattle. Their numbers had declined to 1,000 or fewer from the tens of millions in the late 19th century, when most of them ran wild. His namesake had herded more than 300,000 longhorn steers to Dodge City, Kan., over his life. 
The association defined and regulated the breed for the first time and undertook many educational and promotional campaigns. The number of longhorns has since grown to 250,000, and Mr. Schreiner's own tiny herd expanded to more than 1,000, making it one of the nation's largest.
The most important part of the effort was a breeders' registry to ensure pedigrees. "That really preserved the breed," said Alan Sparger III, a rancher in Comfort, Tex.
 Paraphrasing a country song, Mr. Sparger said of Mr. Schreiner, "He was longhorns when longhorns weren't cool." 
Mr. Schreiner did not stop with longhorns. He also led a movement to raise exotic animals from Africa and Asia on Texas ranches and then charge hunters to shoot them. The Y.O. Ranch, about 100 miles northwest of San Antonio in the Texas Hill Country, says it has the largest menagerie of what came to be called Texotics, around 50 species. About 35, including giraffes and zebras, cannot be hunted legally, but form the core of what has become a popular and bloodless tourist attraction.
Mr. Schreiner set up a youth camp, restaurant and dude ranch and became an expert at staging spectacles to attract visitors and attention. One of the most famous was a day when guests could shoot machine guns. After cocktails and dinner, they would riddle a car containing gasoline with tracer bullets until it exploded.
This Memorial Day weekend, the 26th annual Y.O. Ranch Longhorn Trail Drive will be held. The Y.O. came from the brand of the first longhorns bought by Mr. Schreiner's grandfather. 
The celebration will include an 1880's costume party. Participation costs $200 a person. (Rental of a horse is $150 extra, but participants are welcome to bring their own.)
Yet another strategy to preserve most of the family spread was to sell small parcels, 100 acres or so, as ranch shares. Owners were entitled to roam the entire 50,000 acres and pretend it was theirs.
"No matter what the economy does, you can count on a Texan for two things," Mr. Schreiner said. "He wants to own a ranch, and he's proud of being a Texan. It's bred into us."
All the plans meant that though the ranch shrank from 70,000 acres when Mr. Schreiner inherited it in 1949 to less than 50,000 acres, it remained in the family. The rocky, hardscrabble cactus patch with nary a drop of oil survived on the backs of longhorns and all manner of tourists.
"He was very creative," said Don L. King, executive director of the longhorn association.
Mr. Schreiner was an only child, born in San Antonio on Jan. 6, 1927. He was educated in San Antonio private schools and earned a business degree from the University of Texas. His father died when Mr. Schreiner was 6, and he was educated in ranch affairs by his mother, Myrtle, and the ranch hands he adored.
Longhorns had almost died out as a result of being bred with plumper breeds. By 1940, the Y.O. Ranch had none, and the glory days of Mr. Schreiner's grandfather, who fought with the Confederates in the Civil War before becoming a Texas ranger, were a distant memory. 
In 1957, Mr. Schreiner set out to assemble a new longhorn herd.
"He'd find one here and one there and a handful over there," his son Walter said. "He traveled tens of thousands of miles just looking for them. A lot of dead ends."
In a 1987 interview with The San Antonio Express-News, Mr. Schreiner said: "Without this breed, there wouldn't have been a Y.O. It just wasn't right for them to become extinct."
Others were doing the same thing, including an Oregon longhorn owner who was considering setting up an association and breeding registry. Mr. Schreiner was of the opinion that both belonged in Texas, and in 1964 he filed a certificate of incorporation. He became the first president.
His first task was hiring Claude Shrader, who had worked at a federal refuge for longhorns in Oklahoma, established in the 1920's. He was renowned for being able to look at a cow years after having seen it as a calf and remember its pedigree. Mr. Shrader traveled the country inspecting would-be Texas longhorns, at $2 a head.
In 1965, Mr. Schreiner hit upon the idea of staging a re-enactment of a trail drive from San Antonio to Dodge City to observe the 100th anniversary of the first trail drive after the Civil War. The group stopped at President Lyndon B. Johnson's ranch on the way, and made national news.
Since then, longhorn breeding has become so widespread and specialized that cattle are bred for characteristics like horn length and muscle mass. Because the longhorn produces lean, grain-fed meat, it has become popular with people conscious of their diet.
Mr. Schreiner's wife, Audrey, a University of Texas cheerleader when he met her, died in 1988. One son, Louis, died of a heart attack on April 15. In addition to his son Walter, of Mountain Home, Mr. Schreiner is survived by his sons Charles IV, of Salado, Tex., and Gus, also of Mountain Home; and nine grandchildren.
Mr. Schreiner habitually wore a beat-up cowboy hat and collected antique Colt pistols. In 1986, Sports Illustrated described him as a "stocky, round-faced man with a grizzled mustache who looks like a hammered-down Hemingway."
Mr. King of the association recalled him as a tough guy and then gave him the ultimate Texas compliment. "He had an eye for cattle," Mr. King said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Schreiner III at a party in 1980 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Y.O. Ranch. (Wendy Watriss) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); MAMMALS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); HEART DISEASE (73%); ANIMALS (70%); COUNTRY MUSIC (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LIVESTOCK; CATTLE 

SCHREINER, CHARLES III; MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (53%) TEXAS

CATEGORY: Social Activism 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



814 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
Giants Praise a Little-Known Kicker

BYLINE:  By BILL PENNINGTON 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., April 28 

 BODY:
An Eagle Scout, the son of an engineer and a bond trader, John Markham considered attending a service academy but ultimately chose Vanderbilt University in Nashville because it was close to his Tennessee home and was valued for its academics.
 Markham had been an all-state place-kicker in high school, but not an all-American and not actively recruited by major college football powers. He would play four years of football at Vanderbilt, ending a successful career as a team captain. But when his senior season was over last fall, he was not invited to any of the postseason all-star games, nor to the National Football League scouting combine. No N.F.L. team asked him to come for a visit or a workout. 
 So on the second day of the N.F.L. draft last weekend, Markham, who will graduate next month with a degree in economics, was sitting in his dormitory with his roommate. They were casually watching the N.F.L. draft unfold. Markham figured he would probably end up trying out for a team in training camp.
He also knew that his father, Mark, had suggested getting an M.B.A.
"To say that I expected to be drafted, to see my name on the television screen, that wouldn't be right," Markham said Friday. "I figured I would end up with some team eventually. You could say I was surprised, pleasantly surprised, to find out I was drafted."
He was the Giants' fifth-round draft choice, and the second kicker selected. Billy Gramatica, brother of the Pro Bowl kicker Martin Gramatica, had gone to the Arizona Cardinals one round earlier. Markham may not have been listed in any of the exhaustive publications that handicap the draft -- even when the list of kickers went 20 deep -- but he was one of only three kickers taken.
And now Markham, who looks a little like a teenage Ron Howard, is the immediate favorite to win the Giants' starting place-kicker's job. Teams do not expend fifth-round draft picks on kickers or punters they expect to cut.
Last year's kicker, Brad Daluiso, is a 33-year-old free agent, and the team is not pursuing him. Jaret Holmes was on the team's practice squad for most of last year and considered the heir apparent to Daluiso -- before the Giants dropped the Markham bombshell. And while the Giants have said Markham and Holmes will compete for the starting job at training camp, the praise from the coaching staff and front office for Markham has been bountiful.
Giants General Manager Ernie Accorsi conceded that Holmes had an equal chance to make the team, but added, "If he wins the job, he will have beat out a heck of a kicker."
How can the Giants have such confidence in a place-kicker that few outside Nashville had heard of until last weekend?
"There have always been great kickers who aren't celebrated," Accorsi said. "The answer is that Jan Stenerud went to Montana on a ski scholarship."
Stenerud, who learned to kick an American football after enrolling at Montana State, is the only pure kicker in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
"Our scouts and coaches did the work on him, and they had him as our highest-rated kicker," Accorsi said of Markham, who made 14 of 18 field goals last year at Vanderbilt. "I'm going to listen to them, not anybody else. We liked Markham's hang time on kickoffs, and he was incredibly consistent. He did not make a huge number of kicks from 50 yards and beyond, but I'm not sure at Vanderbilt that he got to try that many long kicks."
As for Holmes, who had a good season in practice as Daluiso's understudy, Accorsi said: "Look, we're doing this for a living. A guy has to have a little more history before we just hand him the job."
Holmes had two career N.F.L. field-goal attempts and made both.
Markham, meanwhile, celebrated his 22nd birthday Friday at the Giants' rookie minicamp. He arrived well aware that his selection puzzled many, especially reporters who cover the team.
"I understand that many people wondered," he said. "But everybody has a different take on kickers. Coaches' judgments aren't going to be the same. I don't mind taking the mind-set that I'm the underdog. I can get my kickoffs inside the 5-yard line with good hang time, and I've been extremely consistent inside 40 yards with my field goals."
Markham seemed unruffled by the large group of reporters he attracted Friday -- and by the consistent line of questioning that at least implied he was a confounding, mystery draft pick by the Giants. Markham was engaging, pleasant and winsome, adding at one point with a modest smile, "Back home, a long time ago, I was told to always read the sports pages like you read the funny pages."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Markham (19) converted 14 of 18 field-goal attempts for Vanderbilt last season. He has a chance to win a starting job with the Giants. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%) FOOTBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%) NEW YORK GIANTS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: PENNINGTON, BILL; MARKHAM, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



815 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Rich Nations Consider Fund Of Billions to Fight AIDS 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
The world's leading industrial nations are considering beginning a multibillion dollar global program to fight AIDS and other infectious diseases, but the United States has warned that such an effort would probably fail unless it is carefully tailored to the difficult conditions in countries where such diseases are most prevalent.
 The push to commit new aid money was a significant topic of discussion at the meeting of Group of 7 finance ministers in Washington today. Some financial officials, especially those from European countries, are pushing the United States and other wealthy nations to devote unprecedented amounts of money to finance a global assault on AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, especially in Africa. 
 The gathering of the top economic and financial leaders of the United States, Canada, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Japan took place on the sidelines of the spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the two leading global lending institutions. 
Officials of the World Bank and the United Nations, both of which have devoted hundreds of millions of dollars to fight AIDS and other diseases, have argued that existing financing is woefully inadequate.
James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, says the amount necessary to start an effective AIDS prevention and treatment program in Africa is $3 billion to $4 billion a year. That is 10 times the amount the developed world provides today.
The Bush administration has not ruled out participation in such an effort, which European ministers hope to begin when the leaders of the Group of 7 nations have their main annual summit meeting in Genoa, Italy, in July. But a senior Treasury Department official said the United States had raised several red flags.
The official said Africa lacked the basic medical and physical infrastructure that would make it possible to deploy effectively the complex cocktail of drugs to fight AIDS. He said Africans lacked a requisite "concept of time," implying that they would not benefit from drugs that must be administered on tight time schedules.
"This kind of thing should not be undertaken to salve the consciences of those who are well intentioned," the Treasury official said after the Group of 7 meeting this evening. "There has to be understanding of how to bring about meaningful change in the lives of real people."
The official said the final decision about whether the United States will take part rested with President Bush. He said no one should "jump to any conclusion" about whether the United States would join the effort.
The discussion about diseases came as the financial leaders discussed the health of their own economies. All the major industrial economies are growing "below their potential," to use the official euphemism.
The International Monetary Fund warned this week that global growth would slump to 3.2 percent this year, compared with the estimate of 4.8 percent it made in late 2000. The question is what, if anything, the finance ministers can agree to do about it.
The leaders of the International Monetary Fund have made the loudest calls for aggressive action by world leaders to prompt fresh growth by slashing interest rates, thus easing the availability of credit to encourage consumer spending and business investment. The United States has also pushed Japan and European nations to undertake what are known as "structural reforms," or changes to labor laws and investment barriers that are thought to stifle productivity and growth.
But Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has sought to strike a more conciliatory tone when meeting with his counterparts than his predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, who was often accused of lecturing allies.
The communique issued at the end of the session struck an optimistic tone and avoided what economists see as the biggest obstacle to world growth: the conservative interest rate policy of the new European Central Bank.
"Although global growth has slowed over the past year, the foundations for economic expansion are sound," the joint statement from the ministers said. It made no mention of European interest rates, though it did call for Japan to maintain "ample liquidity" in order to combat falling prices in that country.
Mr. O'Neill made the case that the United States was doing its part to help revive global growth.
The Federal Reserve has cut interest rates four times since January. Mr. Bush has also made a $1.6 billion tax cut the centerpiece of his economic plan, while agreeing to speed up some tax relief to act as a near-term stimulus to consumer spending.
"In the U.S.," Mr. O'Neill said. "we're on track to make good on the idea that the U.S. can be a strong engine of growth for the world economy, and it's my hope and expectation that others will do the same." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MALARIA (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (92%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



816 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Preparing to Grieve For a Catholic School 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
For Corey Patrick, a 31-year-old city bus driver who lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, sending his son to All Saints School in Harlem is very convenient. The school, on East 130th Street in Manhattan, is just minutes from the bus depot at 146th Street and Lenox Avenue, where his shift ends at 2 p.m.
 Sitting in his blue sport utility vehicle outside the school on a recent afternoon, Mr. Patrick was the portrait of a modern New York dad, waiting for the clock to strike three and for his son, Corey Jr., to come bounding out at the end of another day of fifth grade. 
 All Saints, with 224 students from prekindergarten through eighth grade, is one of six financially failing parish schools facing possible closure by the Archdiocese of New York because of budget cuts. Cardinal Edward M. Egan and archdiocesan officials have reviewed business plans from the six schools and are expected to announce a decision Tuesday, the archdiocesan spokesman, Joseph Zwilling, said yesterday. 
Most parents interviewed at All Saints last week said that they had no idea what they would do if the school closed. 
Waiting for their children in the afternoon sun, they explained how All Saints fit so well into their hectic working class lives. Many parents said that although they were not Catholic, they preferred a Catholic school to overcrowded, under-performing public schools. 
For David Fletcher of the South Bronx, who was parked just ahead of Mr. Patrick, All Saints' tuition of $1,850 a year was an affordable option for his daughter, Tracie, a first grader. "I checked the tuition some of the schools had, and this was one that I could pay for," he said. 
For Patricia Garvin, who lives in White Plains and works as a teacher's assistant at Public School 72 on East 104th Street, having her 4-year-old daughter, Damon'e, in prekindergarten at All Saints offers peace of mind. "She has to be near where I am," Ms. Garvin said. "Just in case of emergencies." 
And for Daphne Ballard, who lives near the school in a neighborhood slowly rebounding from decades of social and economic distress, seeing her daughters Courtney, 12, and Zoe, 7, grow up at All Saints has been a personal triumph. She smiles proudly when she thinks about Courtney graduating next year. 
"I wanted her to have some constancy, because I was moved around a lot when I was a kid," Ms. Ballard said. "So this is an achievement for me to have her be able to say she went to one school." 
The six schools, three in Manhattan including All Saints, and one each in Rockland, Dutchess and Ulster Counties, all have low enrollment and have operated at a deficit for years. The archdiocese says it can no longer afford to fill the gaps. 
The parish pastor, the Rev. Theodore C. Parker, said that All Saints' income this year would be $797,800, including rent from leasing its top two floors to a Jesuit program for boys. But the school's total expenses, including funds for extra art, music, computers and Spanish classes, are expected to be $889,400, Father Parker said, leaving a $91,600 deficit. 
A decision to raise tuition next year to $2,000 from $1,850 was made a few weeks before the archdiocese announced in late March that All Saints was on the list of schools marked for possible closing. 
To many working poor parents or those who have more than one child in the school, it is not a small increase. Still, All Saints remains one of the most affordable Catholic schools in New York.
"A lot of the parents are working two jobs, and we have single parents," said the principal, Anthony Georges. "They are willing to sacrifice to see that their children get a good education." 
With just four weeks to prepare a business plan, Father Parker and Mr. Georges stepped up efforts to create an advisory board to help the school with fund-raising. 
Teachers telephoned parents and implored them to register early for next year. The Children's Storefront School, a free private school on East 129th Street, called the parents of children on its waiting list to urge them to consider All Saints. And clergy at nearby churches that do not operate schools urged parishioners to send their children to the school. 
Fewer than 80 students usually register in April, Mr. Georges said, but this year 175 have already signed up. Father Parker predicted that enrollment would rise by about 25 to 250 and that the deficit would be erased.
"With that number, we are certain we will not have to ask the archdiocese for money," Father Parker said. "We think that we'll get through this." 
Closing All Saints is unthinkable, many parents said. A tour of the school explains why. Classrooms are large, comfortable and immaculate. Hallways are quiet. Students wear maroon and gray uniforms, with neckties for the boys. 
All Saints, the parents said, is an integral part of lives balanced as delicately as a coin standing on edge. Ms. Garvin, the parent who works at a nearby school, may have to look for a job near her home in White Plains if All Saints closes so that her daughter can attend public school. Or, Ms. Garvin said, she could enroll her daughter in private school near her parents' home in the Bronx. But she would prefer to keep her daughter at All Saints. "I just like the smallness of the class size, and the community in this area is good," she said. 
Diane Hill, a medical assistant, enrolled her oldest son, Ben, 12, at All Saints for first grade when the family lived in Harlem. Now they live farther uptown, in Inwood, but Ben, now in sixth grade, remains at All Saints. His younger brother, Marquis, 3, is in prekindergarten.
Mrs. Hill said that she considered enrolling Ben in public school when he first started. "They were teaching in bathrooms," she said. "They were teaching in the gyms. There were trailers they were teaching in, and the public schools weren't safe." 
Mrs. Hill said she liked having a school near family members but that parents at the school also helped one another. "We all know each other and depend on each other, and we don't want to give that up." 
Mrs. Hill, pregnant with her third child, said she hoped the new baby could also go to All Saints. "I hope she can make it there," she said. "If they keep it open long enough."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at All Saints Catholic School in Harlem will have to go elsewhere if budget cuts force the school's closing. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TUITION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: ALL SAINTS SCHOOL (NYC); ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



817 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Island Turns Into a Symbol of Discontent 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: VIEQUES, P.R., April 28 

 BODY:
The politicians, celebrities and cameramen had turned in for the night, but Martina Rodriguez and her friends from the University of Puerto Rico in San Juan were in no mood to sleep. They talked politics, shared cold hamburgers and smoked cigarettes as a nearby contingent of police officers, looking bored and sleepy, stood behind barricades.
 It was nearly 2 this morning, and despite the exhaustion from a day of protests, Ms. Rodriguez, 19, said she wanted to stay up all night in case there was a skirmish with the police. "We've never felt anything like this before," said Ms. Rodriguez, who said she had been largely apolitical before Vieques became a rallying cry for millions of Puerto Ricans. "This is the Vietnam of my generation. We want to stop the mayhem. We want to make a difference." 
 The Navy's decision to resume bombing exercises here has galvanized the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, bringing together people of all ideologies and backgrounds who view the vast military firing range as a symbol of everything that is wrong with Puerto Rico's relationship with the United States.
More than 600 people have been arrested since April 1999, when a bombing accident killed a civilian security guard and sparked the rallies and vigils that have become a central theme for Puerto Rican politicians and the news media.
Gov. Sila M. Calderon, who was elected in November, the first woman to hold that post in Puerto Rico, made Vieques one of her top issues, promising to evict the Navy from Vieques. 
After years of feeling frustrated by a lack of popular support, Farrique Pesquera, an independence advocate, said he was heartened by the swelling anger among students, housewives, clergymen and Puerto Rican pop stars like Ricky Martin, Marc Anthony and Jose Feliciano. 
"People here have no self-esteem," Mr. Pesquera said, intentionally raising his voice so the police could hear. "They have been brainwashed to think that they can't survive without America, that all our air comes from the north. Struggles like this one will change that."
But the campaign to turn Vieques into a cause celebre is not universally admired among the 9,400 residents of this 33,000-acre island off the eastern tip of Puerto Rico. While many residents have painted "No Mas Bombas" -- no more bombs -- on their car windows, there is a quiet contingent that resents the protesters, the politicians and the reporters.
The most persistent protesters, the locals point out, are from the Big Island -- as Puerto Rico is called by Vieques residents -- intellectuals and ideologues who did not care a wisp about Vieques until recently. "These big city guys are just playing with us, using Vieques for their own political end," said Juan Morales, a 56-year-old handyman, as he sipped a beer at a roadside bodega. 
Some, like Tito Padro, a waiter, said the demonstrators missed the point when they shouted about the health problems wrought by 60 years of the Navy's dropping ordnance at Camp Garcia, the firing range on the eastern third of Vieques.
"The protesters and politicians say that the Navy has destroyed Vieques, but no one wants to help us deal with our real problems," he said. The real problems, he and others said, are poor roads, an overburdened sewage system, poor schools and an unemployment rate near 50 percent. "The bombing overshadows all our other problems," he said. 
And some who live off the island's fledgling tourist trade, many of them Americans, blame the protesters for scaring off business. Burr Vail, for one, said business at his hotel had been growing 20 percent a year until the battle over Vieques began two years ago. Now it is down 20 percent. "The Navy has been a poor neighbor, to be sure, but until recently we managed to co-exist," Mr. Vail said. 
Many restaurant and hotel owners say the effect of the bombing has been exaggerated, but a preliminary study by the Puerto Rican government has shown a high incidence of vibroacoustic disease, a rare disorder associated with loud noises. (The bombing range is nine miles from the nearest house.) 
Pete Baumgartner, 65, a South Carolina native who owns a gift shop here, described the sound of falling shells as distant thunder, not the heart-stopping explosions he has read about in the newspaper. The exercises, Mr. Baumgartner said, take place a few weeks each year, and before the protests began most tourists barely noticed they were sharing the island with the Navy.
Before the protests began, he said, many of Camp Garcia's beaches -- considered the best on Vieques -- were unofficially open to the public. These days even fishermen are forbidden from dropping their lobster traps in the restricted zone that extends a half mile from the coast. 
As the protesters held their all-night vigil, Mr. Baumgartner and his friends gathered at Bananas, a restaurant down the road, downing beers and grousing about the media circus, the Puerto Rican government's inattention to the island and the sense that life on Vieques will never be the same.
Rick Smith, 52, a security guard, said he had moved here from St. Thomas seven years ago to escape the commercialization that has transformed so many other Caribbean islands. "I love the fact that there's no Burger King, no Hiltons and no Hyatts," Mr. Smith said. 
About 4,000 tourists come here each year, but that number is expected to grow if the residents vote in favor of a referendum next November that would evict the Navy by 2003. Longtime residents like Carmen Perez, 47, believe the Navy's departure would put an end to the bad publicity and free thousands of acres controlled by the United States government. "We need progress," said Mrs. Perez, who has been unemployed for eight years. "We need more tourists."
But many tourists who take the 20-minute flight from San Juan say large-scale development would be a mistake. Paul Smith, 37, an audio technician from New York, said he found the Navy's presence here insulting but admitted that he liked the unintended result."We wanted to find a place that wasn't superdeveloped, where there isn't a casino and where music isn't piped into the street," he said. "I'm sure it must be awful to live with all that bombing, but I have to admit that if it weren't for the U.S. military, this place would have been ruined long ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesting the Navy's plan to resume bombing exercises on Vieques, a man waved a Puerto Rican flag yesterday near the island's firing range. (Reuters) Maps of Puerto Rico highlighting Vieques.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US TERRITORIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



818 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Loved Humanity, Hated People 

BYLINE:  By Sylvia Nasar; Sylvia Nasar, the James S. and John L. Knight professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, is the author of "A Beautiful Mind," a biography of the mathematician John Nash.

 BODY:
 Bertrand Russell
The Ghost of Madness, 1921-1970.
By Ray Monk.
Illustrated. 574 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $40.
 Bertrand Russell, who was among the 20th century's most influential philosophers and public intellectuals, began his autobiography by declaring, "Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind." Thus the author of "Principia Mathematica" and champion of free love and world peace explained his multiple marriages and affairs, towering intellectual achievements and numerous public honors, including a Nobel. 
Some of his best friends saw him in a less flattering light. "A fervid egoist," Virginia Woolf noted dryly in her diary in 1921, shortly before Russell's 50th birthday -- the halfway mark of what would be a remarkably long life. "A fallen angel with Mephistophelean wit," remarked Beatrice Webb, founder of the London School of Economics, adding, "He may be successful as a litterateur; I doubt whether he will be of value as a thinker, and I am pretty well certain he will not attain happiness." In the second volume of his prodigiously researched and brilliantly narrated biography, "Bertrand Russell: The Ghost of Madness, 1921-1970," Ray Monk, a professor of philosophy at the University of Southampton in England, goes even farther than Russell's contemporaries in deconstructing the iconic sage with the halo of unruly white hair.
"His great quality was his unfairness" is the mildest of many barbs repeated by Monk to suggest that the philosopher's professed love for humanity disguised a hatred of most people. The charge of unfairness could apply equally to Monk himself. While accusing Russell of oversimplifying complex issues and caricaturing his opponents, Monk has written an account that reads more like an indictment than a life. Despite his superb grasp of Russell's philosophical work and confident command of the details of Russell's private life, Monk, the author of a sympathetic yet rigorous biography of Ludwig Wittgenstein, is far too convinced of Russell's guilt to do his protean subject justice. 
Surveying the eventful second half of the British philosopher's life, Monk maintains that instead of love and pity, "a deep-seated fear of madness and a quite colossal vanity" drove Russell "inexorably" toward "disaster." Not only did Russell waste his intellectual gifts by abandoning highbrow philosophy for hack journalism (and political grandstanding), Monk says, but he caused enough emotional carnage in his own home to make the House of Atreus look like an average dysfunctional family. According to Monk, "loving another was, for him, inconceivable." Russell's chief victims, he claims, were his son John and his granddaughters Sarah and Lucy -- all of whom suffered from the same devastating mental illness, schizophrenia, that afflicted some of Russell's older relatives.
Monk's thesis makes for a compelling story line, but it simply isn't credible -- even on the evidence he supplies. Whatever Russell's flaws -- arrogance, grandiosity, glibness, insensitivity and occasionally hilarious flakiness come to mind -- he was neither as trivial nor as monstrous as Monk would have us believe.
Take Monk's first complaint, that Russell churned out gobs of "second-rate journalism" instead of sticking to mathematics and logic. Wittgenstein once said of his former mentor's work, "Russell's books should be bound in two colors, those dealing with mathematical logic in red -- and all students of philosophy should read them; those dealing with ethics and politics in blue -- and no one should be allowed to read them." Monk couldn't agree more; "willful shallowness," "wild exaggerations," "crass oversimplifications," "superficiality" and "credulous nonsense" are just a few of his put-downs of Russell's writings of the 20's and 30's. But are newspaper columns meant to be anything but ephemeral?
As it happens, Russell turned to freelance writing and the lecture circuit to support his wife and children -- as well as to be able to stay home caring for his young son. And some of Russell's popular work, including "A History of Western Philosophy," was good enough to merit a Nobel Prize in Literature. This cuts no ice with Monk. 
Monk's cruelest allegation is that Russell's shortcomings as a parent destroyed his son and doomed the granddaughters he and his fourth wife, Edith, raised. One, Sarah, spent "much of her time . . . in psychiatric care," and the other, Lucy, immolated herself five years after Russell's death. Indeed, in a gesture that must be called terminally tacky, Monk uses Lucy's death to point an accusing finger at Russell, calling it, in the book's closing lines, "the final visitation of the ghosts that haunted Russell throughout his life." 
Monk's vivid rendering of this family tragedy masks the speciousness of his underlying argument. Back in the Freudian 50's and 60's, schizophrenia was widely thought to be a psychological condition for which awful parents were to blame. But that belief has long since been thoroughly discredited by research, and by the efficacy of drug therapy. Both show that schizophrenia is a brain disorder like Alzheimer's or Parkinson's rather than the product of a traumatic "family romance." Not a hint of this is to be found in Monk's volume -- a glaring omission for a decade-long research project. 
In the book's second chapter, Monk cautions readers that "of course, the links between cause and effect here are very difficult to determine, and one should be wary of attributing John's later misfortunes directly to his upbringing." But Monk exhibits no such wariness. Just a few lines down, he writes: "John did not grow up to be fearless, independent and free, as Russell's theory demanded that he should, but rather inhibited, withdrawn and anxious. It is only in retrospect, however, that we can say: 'No wonder.' "
After describing the descent of John, whose troubles began in elementary school, into full-blown schizophrenia at 33, Monk leaves no doubt as to the cause of his illness. Referring to a nightmare shared by Russell and his granddaughter Lucy, he writes, "What Russell had sensed was a guilty secret of madness in the family; what Lucy had sensed was a hidden murder." Monk goes on to speculate: "Might this not be a metaphor for the feeling that her beloved grandfather had himself a dreadful secret, namely that he had destroyed the life of his son?"
Once again, Russell's actions count for very little. That Russell and John's mother, Dora, founded a school largely for their children's benefit, that Russell stayed in a miserable marriage (when his wife had borne two children by another man) to spare his children the pain of divorce, or that Russell provided a home for his troubled son and the son's equally troubled wife for several years doesn't alter Monk's verdict that he was "cold towards those who loved him." He prefers to see Russell as the sole author of his own and his family's misery. "At 41 Queen's Road, therefore, Russell did not just write his 'Autobiography'; he recreated it." 
WITNESSING a parent's grief over a child's devastating illness inspires sympathy in most people. And most people have some sense of the terrible choices that parents face -- choices even bleaker in 1955, when no effective treatments existed. But apparently not Monk. Russell was surely wrong to relegate his son to his ex-wife's care and to refuse further contact with him. But was that so monstrous? He was, not without reason, afraid of his son and determined to shield his granddaughters. For Monk, however, there are no shades of gray. "Dora struggled to cope with John, who was never again able to work or look after himself, and Russell got on with the task of saving humanity," he writes. Monk could just as easily have said, "and Russell got on with the task of caring for his granddaughters" -- but that would have undermined the case he seems determined to make.
Unfortunately, Monk's dislike of Russell -- which he says is based largely on the fate of Russell's son and granddaughters -- and his seeming ignorance of the most basic facts about mental illness have skewed his judgment badly. Biographers who despise their subjects are evidently just as much at risk of getting the story wrong as those who worship blindly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bertrand Russell around 1952, the year he turned 80. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (77%); INDICTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; MONK, RAY; RUSSELL, BERTRAND (1872-1970) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); ENGLAND (56%)

TITLE: BERTRAND RUSSELL: THE GHOST OF MADNESS, 1921-1970 (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



819 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Fiction; 
The Best Revenge in Manhattan

BYLINE:  By Kera Bolonik 

 BODY:
The playwright Han Ong's assured first novel, FIXER CHAO (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25), introduces us to William Narciso Paulinha, a Filipino street hustler who is eager to get out of the life -- that is, until he meets Shem C, a marginal writer with a chip on his shoulder and a proposition William can't resist. Shem hires him to assume the role of "Master Chao," a fictitious feng shui practitioner, as a vengeful way to fleece and humiliate the inner circle of Bill Hood, an esteemed novelist of Philip Roth stature, whose successes illuminate Shem's many failures, both in his career and his romantic life. 
As Master Chao, William proves to be a quick study, swiftly rising in status from seedy bar denizen to an A-list guest among the upper echelons of Manhattan society. As he supposedly arranges their decadent homes to invite good fortune, William discreetly heeds Shem's instructions to ensure that important details were "off by just a few crucial degrees," paving the way for his clients' destruction. Roguish though he is, William is a keen observer, and his ever-
 increasing resentment toward these people -- many of whom, he thinks, are impostors like him, and have relentlessly used their loyal mentors and friends to ascend both socially and economically -- feels wholly justified in the context of this mordantly funny novel. "This hate was what made me get out of bed in the morning," he confesses, priding himself on having become "the man who in himself had incarnated every single millennial fear that they'd nurtured . . . so that they could finally face their guilty consciences." Kera Bolonik

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Judith Wilde)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); WRITERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BOLONIK, KERA; ONG, HAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

TITLE: FIXER CHAO (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



820 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2565 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND GETAWAYS; 
Boston on the Run: Durer to Jim Dine

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN; AMY WALDMAN is a reporter on the metropolitan staff of The Times.

 BODY:
I SPEND a great deal of time with words: reading them, writing them, watching their monotonous march across a computer screen. So when I was asked to spend a weekend in Boston looking at art, I felt my right brain stirring with excitement. 
 I realized, as I arrived, that I didn't really know Boston, since all my recent visits had been to friends in Cambridge. Fortunately, it is a remarkably compact city, easy to navigate on foot or by the MBTA public transportation system. I ended up walking everywhere on Saturday; on Sunday, friends shuttled me around in their car. 
 I wanted to mix major museums with lesser-known galleries, and did some research online using citysearch.com, which has a listing of museums and current exhibits. Once in Boston, I got the magazine Art New England and the current Gallery Guide from Art Now. 
Friday night, I went straight to the Museum of Fine Arts. The grande dame of art in Boston, it has one of the country's largest collections, ranging from Egyptian and Asian art to European masterpieces to modern photography. On Fridays, its West Wing stays open late, and offers M.F.A. Fridays -- drinks, music and socializing along with the art. 
On the way in, I walked under a striding Jonathan Borofsky figure; there were more of his site-specific sculptures soaring inside. I strolled through part of the museum's remarkable Asian art collection, passing an anatomically correct 17th-century Tibetan sculpture of Vajrabhairava and his consort. Intricately whittled of painted copper, it is designed to represent a symbolic coupling of anger and wisdom that is said to destroy the attachment to the ego and produce enlightenment. The sculpture turned out to be an appropriate keynote for what was to come -- consorting, that is, as opposed to enlightenment. 
M.F.A. Fridays, it turns out, is a more heated pickup scene than I've seen in most bars. I quickly adopted eye contact avoidance techniques honed in New York subways and focused on the art. The room had a selection of 16th- and 17th-century European painting -- El Greco, Tintoretto, Rubens, Velazquez and others -- that tended toward the dour, with scenes of the Crucifixion, martyred saints and the like. The backdrop gave a slightly absurd cast to the meeting and mingling going on below. And it spawned pickup lines like, "So is this room all about the life of Jesus Christ, or what?" "Or what," I said, and fled. 
Fortunately, even on Friday night, or especially on Friday night, the museum offers many spots of beauty and solitude, starting with John Singer Sargent's stately, patrician portraits. The diversity of its collection is staggering: you wander through a room of striking African masks, crudely carved but carefully designed to ward off communal disaster, and suddenly find yourself face to face with a simple, but luminous, Georgia O'Keeffe calla lily. I resolved to return to the rest of the museum during the weekend, but never had time. 
I met some friends for dinner at Lala Rokh, a tranquil Persian restaurant on Beacon Hill. Along with 14th-century calligraphy on the walls, the restaurant had a spring-themed Zoroastrianism display that included a bowl of beautifully, if obsessively, hand-painted eggs in elaborate designs. 
I went "home" to the Eliot Hotel, at the corner of Massachusetts and Commonwealth Avenues in the Back Bay. Commonwealth, wide and lined with gorgeous houses, is one of Boston's prettiest streets, and the location is perfect for exploring museums and galleries. The hotel itself is simple -- a lobby, a restaurant, 10 rooms and 85 suites -- but pretty. And my light, airy room was spacious and nicely furnished, with sheets so soft I could barely bring myself to leave them. 
But I did, the next morning, after eating breakfast at my hotel. When I was a child growing up in California, on a trip "back East," as we called it, I had gone with my family to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. The memory had never left me: a pink courtyard surrounding a garden, with romantic balconies and ivy trailing down the walls. It was a place, I had thought then, I wanted to live, so I made it my first stop Saturday morning. It was about a 15-minute walk along the Fenway from my hotel. 
The museum has not changed (nor, apparently, have I -- I still want to live there). The stunning Venetian palazzo is built around a courtyard filled with sculptures and vivid flowering plants, rather than outward onto a canal. The museum has a particularly strong collection of Italian Renaissance paintings, but there is more. On the ground floor is Sargent's enormous, darkly magical "El Jaleo," depicting a Spanish dancer; Anders Zorn's shadowy painting "The Omnibus," depicting a modern trolley car filled with a mix of classes, stayed with me, as did an intense five-part altarpiece by Simone Martini. The museum also has Titian's "Rape of Europa."
The driving force behind this place, Isabella Stewart Gardner, was a turn-of-the-century woman who had extraordinary vision and the formidable will (and the fortune) to match it. She amassed an amazing collection of art, designed the building, then determined how her art would be displayed, instructing that nothing could be permanently changed after her death. Some things were, tragically, beyond her control: in 1990, thieves raided the museum and stole a Vermeer and three Rembrandts, among other works, none of which have been recovered. The museum has left the paintings' frames in place, as if they've simply been taken out for a spell. Gaping like empty eye sockets, they cast a pall over the Dutch room. 
So it was restorative to hear, in the same room, a guard talk passionately, in a Russian accent, about a Durer oil painting of a man with fur draped around his shoulders. "Look at that sable," he said. "It's, like, three dimensional." In most museums, guards stand as stiff as toy soldiers and look as if they are enjoying themselves about as much. It was nice to think of this room watched over by someone in love with art. 
It turned out he was not unique at the Gardner. In the Gothic room I encountered another guard, Frank DiMaria, holding forth beneath Sargent's evocative portrait of Mrs. Gardner. He was gushing about the Rembrandt self-portrait in the room below and gossiping about why the Boston ladies hadn't liked Mrs. Gardner (she bought her dresses in Paris, and was always ahead of local fashion). It sounded as if he had just come from tea with the lady herself. 
I left the Gardner reluctantly and walked back toward my starting point, stopping at the Institute for Contemporary Art on Boylston Street, which featured an installation and landscape photographs by Olafur Eliasson (now closed). It was, quite literally, culture shock to go from the classical forms and images at the Gardner to an installation of a light turning on and off over a floor filled with water. Art endures in part because it always evolves, I thought. 
I then walked a block to Newbury Street, a pedestrian-clotted thoroughfare lined with high-end stores, restaurants, hair salons -- and art galleries, lots of them. I was struck by Laurel Hughes's thickly layered, semi abstract paintings of chickens -- who knew chickens could be rendered so beautifully, and so individually -- at the Nielsen Gallery; Esther Solondz's multimedia work -- one medium being salt, layered on photographs and encrusted on rows of little girls' shoes -- in a ghostly display at Gallery NAGA, which is inside a church; and by paintings exhibited by Paul Shakespear at the Howard Yezerski Gallery. I briefly refueled at Pho Pasteur, a popular Vietnamese restaurant. 
Given the crowds, it was a relief to leave Newbury Street. I walked south, to the South End, where I visited a few galleries in a building in an industrial area at the corner of Harrison and Thayer Streets, including the Kingston Gallery, then walked a ways to the Back Bay-South End MBTA station. An artist friend had told me about a small gallery in the Green Street T station, six stops away in Jamaica Plain. It featured two painters and a sculptor the day I was there, and would be a great starting point for exploring the neighborhood, which features an eclectic mix of artists and immigrants. 
But my legs, my eyes, even my right brain were all crying out for a break. So I went back to my hotel, took a brief nap, then met friends for dinner back in the South End, at Truc, a French bistro with grass-green walls and pressed-tin ceilings. After a good bistro-style dinner, we went across the street to the Mills Gallery at the Boston Center for the Arts, which had an interesting exhibit on handpainted Cambodian shop signs, along with photographs of the signs (including a photograph of a sign-painter's sign). Brightly colored, their Khmer lettering is itself a work of art. And the signs reflect everything from a changing economy to the influence of Hollywood imagery.
A woman I'd met at a gallery during the day had invited me to the opening party for Oni Gallery, a new space renovated by a group of young artists in Chinatown. It was crowded and smoky, and the walls were covered with largely forgettable art. Still, I applauded the effort, then went home to my sheets. 
Sunday morning my friends and I drove to the DeCordova Museum and Sculpture Park, a contemporary art museum, in Lincoln, 16 miles northwest of Boston. 
With snow, mud and ice carpeting the ground, it was a less than ideal day for walking through the outdoor sculpture park, but I saw a few arresting pieces, including Jim Dine's "Two Big Black Hearts," 12 feet high and cast from bronze; Richard Rosen blum's "Venusvine," also bronze, but looking like a wood sea creature rising and twisting on a hill, and John Wilson's bronze head entitled "Eternal Presence." Inside, I loved Adam Cvijanovic's painting and collage "Invisible Sun," and the enormous inflatable nylon sculptures by Pat Oleszko. 
We then went to Boston College's McMullen Museum of Art, which had assembled a rare collection of etchings, lithographs and paintings by Edvard Munch, beginning with tormented self-portraits and ending with pastoral landscapes. Much of the middle section explores Munch's conflicted relations with women. He titled a portrait of a lover "Sin," which pretty much says it all, but also painted idealized images of merging couples. The exhibit runs through May 21.
TIME was running out, and I hadn't been to any of the university museums in Cambridge. I never did make it to the List Visual Arts Center at M.I.T., but I quickly visited the three Harvard art museums, starting with the Fogg Museum, seeing the Van Goghs, Renoirs (compare his self-portrait, at 35, with Aristide Maillol's bust of him 30 years later), Picassos, Monets and a striking painting from Jacob Lawrence's "Struggle" series. 
I forsook the light of Impressionism for the dark of German Expressionism, entering the Busch-Reisinger (access is through the Fogg). The museum is small, but has an excellent collection, including Max Beckmann's brooding tuxedoed self-portrait, Ernst Barlach's visceral sculptures and Kathe Kollwitz's bronze sculpture "Rest in the Peace of His Hands." 
I then rushed to the Arthur M. Sackler Museum down the street. I wandered through lovely collections of Japanese, Chinese and Korean landscape scrolls. Upstairs I passed an intricate Burmese stele with scenes from the life of Buddha, and relief fragments from Persepolis. A weekend looking at art, I thought, is like living in the tension between change and continuity. It is a form of expression that is of its place and age, while simultaneously transcending time, language and culture. (Seeing a great deal of it also requires a certain physical fortitude.) 
As the Sackler began closing, I walked toward the exit, then glanced back. Hanging on the wall was a marble grave stele from Greece, fourth century B.C., of a young girl. A dog lunged playfully toward her; a doll was clutched in her hand. It was such a familiar image, both in the live joy and the frozen grief, that it could have been carved yesterday. It spoke, in a way words never could, across more than a millennium. 

Masters of the past, talents of today

Galleries and Museums
Most galleries are open Tuesday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Information about some of Boston's smaller, less commercial galleries can be found at www
.artinitiative.org. Unless otherwise specified museums and galleries are in Boston.
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, 465 Huntington Avenue, (617) 267-9300, www.mfa.org, is open Monday and Tuesday from 10 a.m. until 4:45 p.m.; Wednesday, Thursday and Friday until 9:45 p.m. (Thursdays and Fridays after 5 p.m., only the West Wing is open); Saturday and Sunday until 5:45 p.m. Admission $12.
Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, 280 The Fenway, (617) 566-1401, www
.gardnermuseum.org, is open Tuesday to Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is $11 on weekends; $10 during the week.
Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, 955 Boylston Street, (617) 266-5152, www
.icaboston.org, is open Wednesday to Friday from noon to 5 p.m., Thursday until 9 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is $6.
The Nielsen Gallery, 179 Newbury Street; (617) 266-4835.
Gallery NAGA, 67 Newbury Street; (617) 267-9060. 
Howard Yezerski Gallery, 14 Newbury Street; (617) 262-0550. 
Kingston Gallery, 37 Thayer Street; (617) 423-4113.
Gallery at Green Street, 141 Green Street, Jamaica Plain; (617) 522-0000.
Oni Gallery, 684 Washington Street; (617) 542-6983.
Mills Gallery at the Boston Center for the Arts, 539 Tremont Street, (617) 426-8835, is open Wednesday to Sunday from 1 to 4 p.m. and Thursday through Saturday from 7 to 10 p.m. Admission is free.
DeCordova Museum and Sculpture Park, 51 Sandy Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass., (781) 259-8355, www.decordova.org, is open Tuesday to Sunday from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. It can be reached by car or by taking the purple line on the MBTA from the Porter Square station to Lincoln, then calling Lincoln Taxi at (781) 259-8722. Admission is $6.
McMullen Museum of Art at Boston College, Devlin Hall, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, (617) 552-8100, www.bc.edu/artmuseum, is open Monday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., and weekends from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. through May, and then Monday to Friday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., Sunday noon to 5 p.m. in summer. Admission is free.
Harvard University Art Museums (Fogg Art Museum, Busch-Reisinger Museum, and Arthur M. Sackler Museum), www
.artmuseums.harvard.edu, at the corner of Quincy and Broadway in Cambridge, (617) 495-9400, are open Monday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Admission, which provides access to all three museums, is $5 (free Wednesday and Saturday until noon).

Food and Lodging
Spring rates for a good-sized room at the Eliot Hotel, 370 Commonwealth Avenue, (617) 267-1607, fax (617) 536-9114, www
.eliothotel.com, begin at $255 a night on weekends; suites from $295. The hotel also has a highly regarded restaurant, Clio, where breakfast for two runs about $40; dinner for two with a glass of wine would cost about $150.
Dinner for two at Lala Rokh, 97 Mount Vernon Street, Beacon Hill, (617) 720-5511, is about $100, with wine.
Lunch for two at Pho Pasteur, 119 Newbury Street, (617) 262-8200, will cost about $15.
Dinner for two at Truc, 560 Tremont Street, South End, (617) 338-8070, will cost about $100, with wine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mixing art, music and socializing at the Museum of Fine Arts on Friday night, when the West Wing stays open till 9:45. Inspecting a handpainted Cambodian shop sign at the Mills Gallery at the Boston Center for the Arts on Tremont. Visitors at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum admire "El Jaleo" by John Singer Sargent. (Photographs by Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. 10); The Wentworth Gallery, one of many galleries on Newbury Street. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Map of Boston shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ART COLLECTING (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); RELIGION (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ART; MUSEUMS 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (98%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (57%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



821 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Portland, Ore.

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL UPCHURCH; MICHAEL UPCHURCH is a Seattle novelist who often visits Portland.

 BODY:
In the friendly rivalry between Portland and Seattle, Portland has traditionally played second fiddle in terms of urban vigor and allure. 
 But Seattle has been through a bumpy couple of years, with riots (at the World Trade Organization meeting in December 1999, and at Mardi Gras this year), dot-com layoffs and a 6.8 earthquake giving it the jitters. Ever-increasing traffic congestion and a light-rail system that can't get off the ground don't help. 
 Portland, meanwhile, is bustling confidently. Its light-rail system -- only one route so far, but up and working just fine -- was extended 15 miles westward a few years ago, and a link to the airport is to open in September. A new street car service connecting downtown neighborhoods is due to start in July. 
Other new developments are these: Last August, the Portland Art Museum grew by 60,000 square feet, allowing it to keep most of its permanent collection on display while playing host to touring exhibitions. Powell's City of Books -- a veritable mecca for book lovers -- added two floors to its already vast premises in October, including a splendid rare-book room and an aptly named Basil Hallward Art Gallery (after the artist who painted Dorian Gray's portrait), where visiting authors present readings. The most enticing new arrival may be the Portland Classical Chinese Garden, which offers a taste of botanical-design paradise where a parking lot used to be. 
Some of the rosiness of the City of Roses, as it's called, can be ascribed to its wearing rose-tinted glasses. After all, Portland felt the earthquake, too, and knows it could get more of the same. And it has not been immune to the economic downturn. Finally, like Washington and California, Oregon is facing serious water and power shortages this summer. Still, little of this seems to have affected the town's buoyant mood -- not with all this new stuff to enjoy and show off. 

Events
The Rose Festival, which dominates the city throughout June, starts on May 31 with the coronation of the Rose Festival Queen. She's selected from a Festival Court representing 14 local high schools. The festival continues with fireworks, parades, boat races, performances and art exhibits. Among the highlights this year: Michael Curry, a native Oregonian who designed the puppets and masks for Broadway's "Lion King," will present the world premiere of a multimedia theatrical work, "Spirits," June 7 to 9, at Keller Auditorium, 222 Southwest Clay. Tickets are $15.50 to $39; (503) 224-8499; www.whitebird.org. On June 9 and 10, Ray Charles will appear with the Oregon Symphony at Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, 1037 Southwest Broadway; $20 to $75, (800) 228-7343; www.orsymphony.org. 
A Starlight Parade featuring illuminated floats takes place June 2, followed by the climactic Grand Floral Parade on June 9. Seats can be reserved for prime viewing of the Grand Floral Parade ($17 to $20); call (503) 224-4400. Visitors can examine the floats at leisure at the Rose Quarter Commons (between Memorial Coliseum and the Rose Garden Arena) after the parade June 9 and all day June 10 ($3 donation). Or if you prefer roses left on the bush, the Portland Rose Society's 113th Annual Spring Rose Show, billed as the country's largest and longest running, is June 7 and 8 at Lloyd Center across the river ($3). 
Festivities wrap up with a twilight air show June 30 and afternoon air show July 1 at Hillsboro Airport, at Northeast Cornell Road and 25th Street, 15 miles west of downtown. Tickets are $12; reserved seats $17; call (503) 648-1102. Information on all Rose Festival events can be found at www.rosefestival.org, or by calling (503) 227-2681. 
The Rose Festival isn't the only game in town. Oregon Ballet Theater, under the artistic direction of James Canfield, will present its American Choreographers Showcase June 1 to 23, with two alternating programs -- one by women, the other by men. Performances, at Newmark Theater, 1111 Southwest Broadway, are $5 to $80; (888) 922-5538 or www.obt.org. 
The Artists Repertory Theater does good work at bargain prices and in intimate surroundings. Its next production is Warren Leight's jazz era drama "Side Man," May 20 to July 1, at 1516 Southwest Alder Street. Tickets: $15 to $26; (503) 241-1278; www.artistsrep.org. 

Sightseeing
The Portland Art Museum, 1219 Southwest Park Avenue, (503) 226-2811, www.portlandartmuseum.org, is a must this year, and not just because of its recent and welcome expansion. In October, it acquired the complete art collection of the New York critic Clement Greenberg, who died in 1994. His Abstract Expressionist trove goes on display July 14 to Sept. 16, and it will be the only opportunity to see the collection in its entirety before part of it goes on tour. Another museum draw is a specially commissioned "Artifact Panel" by the Northwest glass artist William Morris in the new Hoffman Wing. Visible from three levels, it consists of 399 hand-blown glass objects that masquerade as clay, bone, wood and fossil. Admission: $7.50. 
Billed as the only museum in the country dedicated solely to advertising, the American Advertising Museum, 211 Northwest Fifth Avenue, (503) 226-0000, www.admuseum.org, has also entered a new phase after moving in February to its current premises. A permanent exhibit traces the history of American advertising from 1704 to the present. Memorabilia on display range from Burma Shave signs to ceramic renderings of the Pillsbury Dough Boy. Admission: $5; open Wednesday to Sunday noon to 5 p.m. 
The nearby Portland Classical Chinese Garden, at Northwest Third Avenue and Northwest Everett Street, (503) 228-8131, www .portlandchinesegarden.org, opened last September and occupies an entire city block. It is an urban garden in the 15th-century Ming style, designed and built by architects and artisans from Portland's Chinese sister city, Suzhou. Volunteers give free tours well worth taking. Admission: $6; open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily through Oct. 31; Nov. 1 through March 31, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. 
Garden lovers will also want to visit the Japanese Garden, 611 Southwest Kingston Avenue, (503) 223-4070, which covers five hilly acres offering stunning views of the city, Mount Hood and Mount St. Helens. Admission, $6; 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily through Sept. 30 (Monday noon to 7 p.m.); Oct. 1 through March 31, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. (Monday noon to 4 p.m.). The nearby International Rose Test Gardens, 400 Southwest Kingston Avenue, (503) 823-3636, are part of Washington Park and one of the test sites for the American Rose Society, with more than 500 varieties. Hours: 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily; free.
The Willamette River runs through the city, and you can meander with it through Waterfront Park, a project from the 1970's that opened Portland's downtown core to the waterway. The Portland Spirit, (800) 224-3901, www.portlandspirit .com, departs from the park near the end of Salmon Street and goes upriver, passing the city's fanciest riverside residences along the way. A variety of cruise packages on the 150-foot yacht are offered, ranging from a simple sightseeing tour ($15) to a champagne brunch buffet cruise ($36) to dinner cruises ($52).

Where to Stay
The latest arrival on the downtown scene, the 154-room Paramount Hotel, 808 Southwest Taylor Street, (503) 223-9900, fax (503) 223-7900, www.paramounthotel.net, which opened in January 2000, boasts a central location, friendly service and a light and airy feel to its rooms, some of which have terraces. While it can't quite match the character of Portland's older hotels, it's very comfortable and has a fresh-faced appeal. Doubles are $195, with special rates starting at $129.
Two older hotels offer a cozier charm. The 107-room Hotel Vintage Plaza, 422 Southwest Broadway, (800) 243-0555, fax (503) 228-3598, www.vintageplaza.com, was built in 1894 and refurbished in the late 1990's. The eclectic selection of accommodations includes some unhotel-like solarium-windowed Starlight rooms on the top floor. Doubles are $109 to $229. 
It's hard to believe, but 10 years ago the 100-room Governor Hotel, 611 Southwest 10th Avenue, (800) 554-3456, fax (503) 241-2122, www .govhotel.com, was a dilapidated shell that served as a set for Gus Van Sant's film "My Own Private Idaho." Now it's a swank affair with a lobby, featuring a Lewis and Clark mural, that's worth a stop. Rooms, some with terraces, are bright and comfortable. The gym has a pool and indoor track; $8 usage fee. Doubles: $185 to $195. 
Budget: The 130-room Mallory Hotel, 729 Southwest 15th Avenue, (800) 228-8657, fax (503) 223-0522, www .malloryhotel.com, set back several blocks from downtown across Interstate 405, is an old favorite among bargain-minded visitors. Its bar, a former sauna, is all curvy brick and shadowed recesses. Doubles: $95 to $155.
Another option is the Mark Spencer Hotel, 409 Southwest 11th Avenue, (800) 548-3934, fax (503) 223-7848, www.markspencer.com, close to the nightclub district. If you plan on making noise on the weekend instead of listening to it, it's a great deal. Each of the 101 rooms in this former apartment building comes with a full kitchen. Doubles: from $89. 
Luxury: The Benson, 309 Southwest Broadway, (503) 228-2000, fax (503) 471-3920, www.bensonhotel .com, built in 1912, is the ultimate in opulence of the timber baron era. The lobby, paneled in rare Circassian walnut, is plush and shadowy, illuminated by chandeliers. The 287 rooms are modest in size but tastefully and comfortably furnished. Doubles are $175 to $255, but packages can start as low as $155. 

Where to Eat
Southpark Seafood Grill and Wine Bar, 901 Southwest Salmon Street, (503) 326-1300, is a visual knockout: high-ceilinged with dark-hued walls of red and brown and some energetic cafe society murals behind the bar. The ahi tuna au poivre and the salads and bread (served with white bean spread) are a delight. The restaurant offers frequent tastings (book ahead). Dinner for two with wine: $100. 
Overlooking the RiverPlace Marina, McCormick and Schmick's Harborside Restaurant and Pilsner Room, 0309 Southwest Montgomery Street, (503) 220-1865, is ideal for lunch. Tables rise in tiers, guaranteeing a view of river activity. Try the Southwest salmon cakes, light and flavorful with a sweet red-pepper crunch. The seared rare ahi with pickled ginger and wasabi is also a must. Dinner for two with wine: $90. 
One of the latest arrivals on the restaurant scene, in the heart of the city's frenziedly gentrifying Pearl District, is Bluehour, 250 Northwest 13th Avenue; (503) 226-3394. Here, former warehouse digs have been turned into an imaginative stage set, with floor-to-ceiling curtains dividing up a big boxy space into dining and bar areas. The green salad, tomato and lentil soup, potato gnocchi and grilled chicken sandwich are excellent. Dinner for two with wine is about $100. 
Abou Karim, 221 Southwest Pine Street, (503) 223-5058, serves Lebanese cuisine that's fresh, aromatic and delectable. Along with the usual kebabs, the house specialty is the mezza: a sampler of hummus, tabbouleh, baba ghanouj, falafel and other dishes. Dinner for two with wine: $50. 
Typhoon!, with branches at 2310 Northwest Everett Street, (503) 243-7557, and 400 Southwest Broadway, (503) 224-8285, offers Thai food, stylishly served, with prices under $10 for many dinner entrees.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart on April 29 with the What's Doing column, about Portland, Ore., referred incorrectly to the cost of a dinner for one. It did include a tip, but not a meal tax; Oregon does not charge one.

GRAPHIC: Photos: View from Japanese Garden. Moon gate at Classical Chinese Garden. Browsing at Powell's bookstore. (Photographs by John Gress for The New York Times); A cheerful moment at the Milk Carton Boat Races, part of the Portland Rose Festival. (Portland Rose Festival Association) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Portland, Ore. (Sources: Runzheimer International, U.S. Census Bureau, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of Portland, Ore. shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); LITERATURE (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); WRITERS (66%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: UPCHURCH, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (96%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) PORTLAND (ORE)

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



822 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Dude Ranches Face Foot-and-Mouth Fears

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
TWELVE guests from Britain have already canceled their reservations for this spring and summer at the Hideout at Flitner Ranch in Shell, Wyo., for fear that if they were exposed to foot-and-mouth disease, they might bring it to the United States. And right now, it's anybody's guess whether other foreign tourists will show up at the Hideout as scheduled.
 Although there are no signs of the disease in the United States -- a disease that is devastating to cattle and other livestock but rarely affects humans -- many Europeans who have been canceling say they do not want to risk the possibility of spreading it to America. Moreover, ranchers say that many callers have confused foot-and-mouth disease with mad cow disease, which can be fatal to humans. 
 In many areas of Britain, the highly contagious disease has ravaged herds of cattle and flocks of sheep. Some dude ranchers with sizable herds of cattle have banned European guests this year, for fear that their livestock will become infected with the virus, which clings to shoes and clothing. For example, Fortune Ranch Adventures in Belvidere, S.D., which has about 1,000 cattle, has canceled bookings of about 20 British guests who were to arrive throughout this summer and into the fall.
"The cancellations will cost us about $20,000, or about half of what it costs us to live all year," said Bob Fortune, the owner. "The odds that visitors will bring the disease from Europe are probably less than 1 percent. But when you have a $1 million investment, you can't take the risk." 
The United States Department of Agriculture warned last month that should foot-and-mouth break out here, "the economic impact could reach billions of dollars in the first year." 
With 1,200 head of cattle, the Hideout, a 95-year-old ranch at the foot of the Big Horn Mountains in north-central Wyoming, would also be vulnerable. But it hasn't had to cancel bookings since most Europeans canceled on their own. "It's going to be a tough year," said Julie Cote, director of marketing and hospitality at the 250,000-acre ranch.
With weekly rates ranging from $1,000 to $2,000 a person, and most such ranches open to tourists an average of only 21 weeks a year, according to the Dude Ranchers Association of North America, that represents considerable lost revenue. What's more, the possibility that foot-and-mouth disease could turn up in the United States is nightmarish for many dude ranchers, especially after last year's disastrous summer. Wildfires ruined much of the tourist season throughout the West, huge areas of park land and hiking trails were closed, gasoline prices across the country began their steady climb, and the nation's economy began to soften.
Now this. Dude ranches draw only a tiny share of the tourist market -- about 86,000 visitors a year, according to Bobbi Futterer, co-executive director of the Dude Ranchers Association, which has about 115 members in 12 Western states and 2 Canadian provinces. Of that total, Mrs. Futterer said, only about 10 percent are foreigners. And while apparently no reliable studies exist of the economic impact of dude ranch vacations, the impact on individual ranches and local communities is not inconsiderable.
So far, the majority of dude ranches appear to be accepting bookings from Europeans. Sylvan Dale Guest Ranch in Loveland, Colo., which is also a working cattle ranch, is taking them, as is Lozier's Box "R" Ranch in Cora, Wyo. "We're happy to have them," said David Jessup, an owner of Sylvan Dale, "but we're concerned about bringing the disease into our herd." 
Both ranches expect visitors to follow the guidelines spelled out in advisories issued by the Agriculture Department. 
These suggest that visitors avoid contact with livestock or wildlife for five days before traveling to the United States and five days after arriving. They also suggest that before foreign guests leave home, they clean all clothing and outerwear, remove soil from shoes then wipe them with a cloth dampened with a solution of five teaspoons of household bleach in a gallon of water. 
Some guest ranches that haven't experienced wholesale cancellations take little comfort in that, since they have had few European bookings to begin with. "As far as I know, nobody in this area has had any trouble with cancellations," said an employee at the Ironhorse Ranch in Tombstone, Ariz., who would not be identified. 
She also said that things have been "a little slow so far this year," but added that October is usually the biggest month for German visitors. But whether that will be true this year will likely depend on what happens with what the Agriculture Department said is one of the animal diseases that livestock owners dread most.
Surprisingly perhaps, some tour operators abroad say that they still expect the usual complement of foreign visitors at dude ranches this summer, at least if the disease does not show up in the United States. Ron Harris, the owner of Ranch America -- a big tour operator in Hertfordshire, England, which sends several million tourists to the United States each year, including about 2,500 to dude ranches -- said Europeans still want to visit. "They still have this fantasy to see and do things that John Wayne saw and did," he said. 
But the last outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the United States occurred in 1929, so if any of John Wayne's characters had to deal with it, most Americans have not. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (95%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (93%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); TOURISM (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (77%); HIKING (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (65%); MOUNTAINS (61%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (55%) LIVESTOCK; HORSES; LIVESTOCK DISEASES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE; DUDE RANCHES 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



823 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1899 words

HEADLINE: Counting on Pfizer? 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
IN the late 1980's, the economy of southeastern Connecticut was so heavily dependent on defense that it was one of the few regions of the country to have mixed feelings about the end of the Cold War. The construction of submarines plummeted and employment at Electric Boat in Groton, which built the boats and was once the state's largest employer, plunged by almost two-thirds, from 26,000 to about 9,000, while smaller defense contractors scattered throughout New London County suffered as well.
 An increase in tourism and gambling helped absorb many of the people who lost their jobs, but there was still a hole left in the southeastern Connecticut economy. Soon, that hole may all but disappear. 
 Pfizer Inc., the pharmaceutical company, is building a new world headquarters for its research operations in New London. Even before the building is finished, Pfizer has become the city's largest taxpayer, home values around the area are rising as its scientists move in and many of the cultural, charitable and other community organizations are already realizing significant benefits. 
Although area leaders are thrilled to have landed such a large company, no one said they thought Pfizer would replace Electric Boat, which still is one of the area's largest employers. But there is some concern that the area will once again become too dependent on one big company and that if the pharmaceutical industry hits a downturn, so will New London and its neighbors, just as they did when Electric Boat cut back.
Steve Sigel, executive director of the Garde Arts Center in New London, which has benefited from having Pfizer in New London, cautioned that the region cannot rely on a single company, as it learned over the last decade. 
"We can't all sit back and expect miracles to happen when Pfizer opens and brings in all these employees," Mr. Sigel said. "There's this expectation that the community will be transformed, but it should motivate others, other businesses and individuals, to join with them and invest in the community."
John C. Markowicz, executive director of the Southeastern Connecticut Enterprise Region, a regional economic development organization, said he wouldn't want to see the area economy become dependent only on tourism or only on pharmaceuticals.
"If people worried about us being a defense-based economy, well, it would be just as bad if we shifted to something else," he said.
Mayor Ernest Hewett of New Longdon said there was not much chance of the region falling back into a single-industry economy, because developments such as Pfizer are generating the kind of prosperity that is attracting a wealth of diversity.
"I think it's the greatest thing that's ever happened to New London," Mr. Hewett said. "What Pfizer has done is to spark all kinds of other development. Everybody's looking to do something in New London, because you're going to have all these high-income people working at Pfizer and either living in the city or driving to it every day."
Mr. Markowicz said the area was certainly more diversified than it was about 10 years ago, when more than 40,000 jobs began to shift out of defense and related areas.
"It was a tectonic shift in the economy of southeastern Connecticut, from a largely defense-based economy, to a much more diverse economy," he said. Today, if any one sector of the economy falters, he believed the region won't be thrown into the same type of panic that accompanied the Pentagon budget cuts of the 1990s, he said.
Pfizer is literally transforming a section of the city. The old linoleum factory where the research complex is located has been converted from a polluted industrial site to a park-like campus, and Bentley Creek, once a foul-smelling waterway filled with garbage that ran through the property, has been restored to a healthy salt marsh.
Deborah J. Haupt, Pfizer's project manager, said that for the first time in many years residents will also be able to use the land near the river at the site. A new walkway, with seats and lighting, has been constructed for local access, looking out over Long Island Sound.
"We'll make sure the trash cans are emptied every day, and the cigarette butts are swept up, because the property will still belong to Pfizer," Ms. Haupt said. "But everyone will be able to use it."
The businesses around the Pfizer complex have already started to transform, reflecting both what has happened and what is coming. Stash's Cafe, just down the street from the construction site, once offered a lunch menu of hamburgers and beer; today it sells a lot of wraps, salads and coffee, to accommodate the construction crews and the Pfizer employees housed in temporary offices nearby, said Steven Stash Schiavone, the owner.
"We're serving probably 150 lunches a day on a good day, and three, four years ago it was less than half that," said Mr. Schiavone, who has been in business more than 15 years. "It's not just the people from Pfizer anymore, either. At this point, it's probably three-quarters local and one-quarter Pfizer. We have a little momentum, and we're building on it."
The Boston-based Corcoran Jennison Company has also announced it would build a new 110-room hotel and conference center near the Pfizer property, in large part because of a guarantee that Pfizer will take at least 30 percent of the rooms every night.
Cynthia H. Clegg, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Southeastern Connecticut, said Pfizer officials had approached her about working with small businesses that are interested in doing business with Pfizer.
"For small business it can be a little intimidating thinking about how to break through to such a large corporation," Ms. Clegg said. In addition, Pfizer has asked her to assemble a directory of New London businesses that can be distributed to its employees, so they know where to find a dry cleaner or coffee shop.
"They have a commitment to increase the business they do locally," Ms. Clegg said. "There's a sense they want to be part of the community, not a gated organization."
David M. Goebel, the chief operating officer of the New London Development Corporation, said by any measure, whether the number of new or expanding businesses in town, or property values, or the number of jobs, New London is enjoying significant growth. The city estimates that about 2,000 new jobs will be created in the area as a result of Pfizer.
Mr. Goebel's organization is working to develop the city's deep-water port. It convinced the Pentagon to turn over to the city, free of charge, an abandoned Navy research laboratory on its waterfront for economic development purposes. And it obtained state funding to purchase several key downtown buildings for renovation and reuse.
"New London is really a diamond in the rough, and it's been that way for some time, but there needed to be a reason to move past all the normal impediments to development," Mr. Goebel said. "That's been achieved with the Pfizer development and we're starting to see some movement."
Just two years ago, Pfizer announced it would build a 750,000-square-foot, three-tower office complex on a 22-acre site on the Thames River in New London, creating about 2,100 jobs and a total payroll of more than $200 million. Pfizer already operates a research and manufacturing center in Groton, where it employs almost 5,000 people.
Originally, the New London complex was to be done in two phases, but after the company acquired Warner-Lambert Inc. last year, it moved up the schedule, and now expects to put it all into use this year. In addition, the company announced just last year that New London will become the new global headquarters of its research organization.
The decision surprised many in the city because the property where Pfizer built was an abandoned industrial site with extensive contamination. The state provided $19 million for restoration, but Pfizer took a significant risk that it would come across the kind of problems that could delay its timetable, officials said. Kate Robins, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, said the company decided it was worth the risk.
"We can either contribute to urban sprawl, go out into a greenfield suburban office park somewhere and use clean land, or we can come in here and clean up a site and use urban land and hopefully create a catalyst for the city," she said. 
Despite tax breaks the company received from the city, Pfizer is already the largest taxpayer there, handing over about $2.5 million this year. Daniel P. O'Shea, a Pfizer vice president, said the financial impact goes much further than just the taxes Pfizer pays.
When Pfizer announced it was going to build its research headquarters in New London, about 80 Pfizer employees from its operation in Groton were living in New London. Within 18 months that had increased to almost 200, and it is continuing to increase, he said.
The Pfizer Volunteer Program, which makes up to a $1,500 contribution to any nonprofit organization where an employee volunteers six hours a month at least six months of the year, put $54,000 into New London nonprofits in 1999, which increased to $72,000 last year.
"And I can tell you that our local philanthropy is guided by where our people devote their time, so as people move into New London and get involved with the groups there, our support of those groups will increase," Mr. O'Shea said.
"There's going to be a lot of disposable income that they bring to New London, a lot of charitable contributions they will make directly, and a lot of recreational and entertainment events they will participate in," Mr. O'Shea said.
Not everyone is convinced that the Pfizer effect is transforming New London. Susan Howard, a real estate broker with U.S. Properties in New London, said she knew of only two businesses that had moved in as a direct result of Pfizer: a Hartford law firm that will open a satellite office in the city, and a limousine company that provides rides for visiting Pfizer scientists to and from area airports.
But she said there was still 2,000 square feet of vacant prime office space at a project just down Howard Street from the Pfizer project, and in recent weeks two banks have vacated their offices in New London.
"Look at the downtown," she said. "State Street is just one vacancy after another." I don't think it's having the impact a lot of people expected."
Others have questioned the city government's decision to sell Pfizer the property for the project for a token $10, to let the private New London Development Corporation use eminent domain to acquire properties around the Pfizer project for related development, and to give the company tax breaks that will phase in its assessment over 10 years. Mr. Hewett, the mayor, shrugged off those criticisms.
"I tell people, 'If you want to put up a $270 million complex and hire 2,000 people, well give you land for $1, and they kind of back off," he said. As far as the tax break, they didn't have to build it here, and without that tax break they might have gone somewhere else. A lot of people forget that they're still paying taxes right from the start, and they're already our biggest taxpayer.
"The fact is, while a lot of cities are looking to attract a Fortune 500 company, we were lucky enough to attract a Fortune 10 company, and they built on a brownfield property right next to the city's sewage plant," Mr. Hewett said. "I think what we've done is provided for the future of New London."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pfizer expects that when its research complex is completed about 2,100 people will work at the site. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4); Work continues on the construction of Pfizer's world headquarters for its research operations. The area was the site of an old linoleum factory in New London. Even before the building is completed, the company has become the city's largest taxpayer. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (72%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: PFIZER INC 

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFEB (BRU) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT; NEW LONDON (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



824 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
When the Sky's the Limit

BYLINE:  By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
WITH the California millionaire Dennis Tito climbing aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft for a visit to the International Space Station construction site, the age of space tourism begins, overturning old rules abruptly. Although Mr. Tito, who is spending a glacially cool $20 million on his trip, is unlikely to be followed immediately by the 747-sized hordes who are held responsible for the sorry state of airline travel today, the barrier between scientists in space and rubberneckers has been breached. Apres Tito, Lord knows.
 So those of us charged with giving practical advice to travelers about their plans and safety must raise our sights still further. Beyond Transcontinental & Western Air; beyond the jet age, beyond the Concorde: On to the age of the space-travel counselor! 
 To dispose first of what preoccupies traveling millionaires most, frequent flier miles are not being awarded on the Soyuz trip; they never are on charters, and this is a charter sui generis. If they were, a trip of 10 days covering 2,533,248 miles -- out and back plus 16 orbits a day for six days -- would pile up an account so large it would be guaranteed to evoke squabbling among Mr. Tito's heirs, who may now be squabbling merely over the mountain of money Dad has dropped on an e-ticket to fulfill his long dream. So it's just as well. 
Another non-issue is luggage. Mr. Tito is going to manage with whatever clothing and supplies the Russians are providing in addition to the space suit on his back. No worry about damaged wheelies and pilferage; on return, he will neither wait at the carousel nor expect his missing bag report to be added to this year's total at the United States Department of Transportation, which is likely to exceed the 2,738,463 unhappy travelers recorded in 2000.
Nor is he, or any future space traveler, likely to have woes with United Airlines' sizers for carry-ons: Carry-ons, worse than shifting during flight, would be lethal in weightlessness.

Foul Air
 There is, actually, a space-travel guidebook already in print, Frommer's "The Moon, a Guide for First-Time Visitors" (Macmillan, 1999), and here is what it says about loose objects: "There must be no crumbs or droplets when you eat -- they, too, would go floating through the cabin, doing all kinds of damage. . . . You have to take careful bites and chew scrupulously with your mouth shut." (Take note, Mr. Tito: No C.E.O.-style exposition with your mouth full, even assuming you have picked up a modicum of Russian during your training at Star City.)
Despite the steep fare, life in the Soyuz and on the space station can get grubby. The Frommer guidebook, under "Intimate Details," notes: "The stench in the close quarters of the spacecraft has not been widely advertised, but former astronauts . . . are quite vocal about the many odors that the filtering systems on board seem incapable of eradicating. And it is not just run-of-the-mill human odors, but also the powerful odors of the artificial atmosphere."
Use of even the economy class toilet on a trans-Atlantic flight likewise seems like a five-star experience in contrast to dealing with bodily needs in space. "The space shuttle's toilet has thigh clamps and handgrips to help you keep yourself firmly positioned on the toilet seat," reports the Frommer guide. "A powerful ventilator sucks all the waste into a holding tank, where it is disinfected and dried."
The guide's author, Werner Kustenmacher, a German, continues, apparently on the assumption that all space travelers are male: "To urinate, passengers have to slip on a vacuum-cleaner-like hose that protrudes from the bottom front of the toilet."

A Deep Sleep
 Sleeping, on the other hand, sounds pretty good. Here, on trips through the atmosphere, British Airways' fine new first-class seats-cum-berths permit sleeping flat, with a headboard, reading light and all the comforts. But in space, flat or vertical is all the same, and the travelers strap themselves in with three belts so as not to float about.
The geologist Harrison H. Schmitt of Apollo 17 is reported to have found sleeping in the weightless environment more refreshing than tossing and turning against gravity. "That is why, in his opinion," says the guidebook, "there were no negative aftereffects when the astronauts kept waking up because of nerves, digestive problems . . . and the many unaccustomed noises in the craft."
Overall, health is a major consideration. In "Wilderness and Travel Medicine" (Adventure Medical Kits, 1997), Eric A. Weiss discusses acute mountain sickness, noting it is commonly suffered by "travelers who ascend rapidly to altitudes above 7,000 feet."
"The typical sufferer experiences a headache, difficulty sleeping, loss of appetite and nausea," Dr. Weiss writes. "Swelling of the face and hands may be an early sign." However, given the travel conditions in space, these symptoms are not likely, even at 240 miles up. 
But at the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the division that monitors emerging infectious diseases has not been asleep to the perils of space tourism. In March 1998, Dr. Martin Cetron, deputy director of the division of quarantine, convened a panel on travelers' health with three other international epidemiologists and Thomas Marshburn of NASA. 
"The impact of weightlessness on human physiology is substantial," the panel report said, ticking off a host of areas. "Prominent sequelae of prolonged weightlessness may include profound motor weakness and 1 percent to 2 percent loss of mineralized bone for each month in orbit; these effects can be countered by maintaining a vigorous daily exercise program while in orbit.
"In addition, recent studies of the immune system have documented a decrease in cell-mediated immunity among astronauts spending extended time in space.
"Environmental stressors . . . and prolonged confinement to limited physical space may also affect the health of space travelers. The space environment also challenges the growth of micro-organisms. Increased antimicrobial resistance has been noted among E. coli and Staphylococcus aureus bacteria in space, and fungal overgrowth can be a problem because of changes in humidity and pockets of increased condensation aboard spacecraft and space stations."
Freely translated: travelers' diarrhea, staph infections and athlete's foot thrive in space, and the places may become pest houses.
Dr. Cetron, asked for more details as Mr. Tito prepped for life as the first space tourist, said: "I think the gist is that many pathogens which a human host brings to the space mission from earth can survive the journey and create significant problems. 
"This means even simple earthly problems like diarrhea can create unique problems in a gravity-free environment -- that's some travelers diarrhea.

Athlete's Foot
"Other problems like bacterial or fungal skin infections can also pose unique challenges given the confines of wearing a space suit. More serious health problems (acute appendicitis) can be especially challenging to deal with given the limited medical diagnosis and treatment options in space. You saw how bad it was getting sick at the South Pole; space is an order of magnitude more remote than Antarctica." 
Asked once for a precis of his health advice for foreign travel, Dr. Hans Lobel, a malaria authority at C.D.C., said: "Buckle your seatbelt and don't forget your condoms." For space travel, the advice is different: Edit the passenger list. The C.D.C. panel reported that NASA's strategy for avoiding health-related mishaps had been selecting "exceptionally fit, healthy crew members and imposing preflight quarantine" that keeps all outsiders away for seven days before flight.
The urgent consumer advice on buying any trip, most particularly to one of Mr. Tito's age, which is 60, is never to lay out more than you can afford to lose unless you insure the investment. Whether $20 million is a mere drop in the bucket for Mr. Tito is not known, but in future cases the undewriter's exposure would be great and the outlook for coverage dim. Beth Godlin, a senior vice president for travel industry sales for Access America trip cancellation insurance in Richmond, Va., said soberly: "If we were to create a travel protection policy to cover this trip, I'm afraid the price would be out of this world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bumping into things can be a big hazard for space tourists. Keir Dullea tried to imagine coping with it in "2001: A Space Odyssey." (MGM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (71%) SPACE; INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION; SPACE STATIONS 

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (91%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: WADE, BETSY; TITO, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



825 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2407 words

HEADLINE: Yippie Central 

BYLINE:  By COLIN MOYNIHAN 

 BODY:
ON a mild night in February, Dana Beal, a leader of the Yippies, gave a party in a three-story brick building in the East Village where the quirky anarchistic group has had its headquarters for nearly 30 years. Among the visitors were friends from the 60's and 70's, many known for their radical politics.
 As several dozen guests chatted and sipped drinks in a long room on the ground floor of the structure, which is located at 9 Bleecker Street, Mr. Beal stood to the side. Dressed in his customary brown leather boots and well-worn corduroy jacket, he identified some of those in attendance. There was Johanna Lawrenson, the companion of Abbie Hoffman, who, along with Jerry Rubin, was a co-founder of the Yippies in 1967. A. J. Weberman, a prominent Yippie and writer who helped pioneer "garbology" -- rooting through the trash of public figures like Norman Mailer for journalistic clues -- was there, too, and so was Aron Kay. Mr. Kay, known as the Pie Man, hurled hundreds of pies at politicians and others he disliked, including Jerry Brown, the former California governor, and James L. Buckley, the former New York senator. 
 As the visitors discussed the past, the talk grew animated. The party, Mr. Kay later said, stirred up fond memories of the mid-70's, when he lived in the basement of 9 Bleecker. "For years, we planned smoke-ins, protests at political conventions and antinuclear demonstrations in number 9," he said. "We had a lot of fun in those days taking on the establishment. Now we're older, but our hearts are in the same place, still fighting the beast."
Perhaps the longest-running Yippie political acts have been smoke-ins, which first appeared in New York in 1967 and evolved by the mid-70's into their current form, the annual pot parades. The event, which is scheduled this year for Saturday, promotes legalizing marijuana for medical use and other drug policies.
Mr. Beal and others -- including his girlfriend Tracy Blevins, who dresses all in pink for these protests and calls herself Medical Marijuana Barbie -- are hard at work for this year's pot parade. But as they prepare, they also have to face a dark cloud that hangs over another longstanding fact of Yippie life: their home at 9 Bleecker.
Last April, Albert Lorber, who owns the building, agreed to sell it to a developer. In July, he wrote a letter to Mr. Beal, who lives at 9 Bleecker along with another longtime Yippie named Alice Torbush, and told Mr. Beal he was ending his month-to-month rental. Then, in August, Mr. Beal and Ms. Torbush filed a lawsuit seeking to compel Mr. Lorber to sell the building to them instead. That case is in State Supreme Court in Manhattan and could be decided as early as this summer.
The stakes, financial and otherwise, are high for the Yippies. With the remaining members of the group scattered around the country, 9 Bleecker has become the group's spiritual center. Without it, Mr. Beal insists, the Yippies could never have accomplished what they have.
"I want to preserve this building," said Mr. Beal, a wiry 54-year-old who often wears his pants tucked into his signature boots. "I think I have a historical duty."

Those Fabulous 60's
The countercultural history of 9 Bleecker, which is between the Bowery and Lafayette Street, extends back to the late 60's. Patrick Firpo, the inventor of Pablo's Lightshow, a fixture at rock concerts of the era, rented the building for a time, and it served briefly as the home for a chapter of the Diggers, a San Francisco group that provided free food and clothing to hippies and drifters.
Mr. Beal and other Yippies moved into the building in 1973. Mr. Hoffman had founded the group, formally known as the Youth International Party, only six years before, but Mr. Beal and the other young members sometimes call themselves Zippies, for Zeitgeist International Party, to distinguish themselves from the older crowd.
Over the last 28 years the Yippies, who once ran a pig for president, scattered dollar bills at the New York Stock Exchange in an anticapitalist snub and, in 1970, held the nation captivated at the Chicago Seven trial, have used 9 Bleecker to plan countless demonstrations. In 1976, they orchestrated at the site their protests at both the Democratic and Republican presidential conventions. Their target was government spying, and even today they rail against Cointelpro, the Nixon-era effort by the federal government to discredit various radical groups.
The 150-year-old tenement has also been a launching pad for pranks aimed at Yippie enemies. Crank telephone calls have long been a popular weapon in the Yippie arsenal, with several variations on the theme. There is the revolving crank, in which the phone is passed around a room, with Yippies taking turns jeering the target on the other end. Then there is the counter crank, used to tie up the line of someone trying to place crank calls to the Yippies. One crank battle, between the Yippies and a former member, lasted 16 years, from 1979 to 1995.
Painted across the facade of 9 Bleecker are faded letters spelling out "The Yipster Times" and "Bleecker Street Publishing." Those words bear witness to another role for the building, as the group's editorial offices from 1973 to 1989. 
The Yipster Times, known after 1979 as Overthrow, was published more or less monthly and served as the Yippie house organ. The first issue had a cover drawing of Richard Nixon as a scarecrow being assailed by a mob brandishing swords and pitchforks.
Prominent radicals and their supporters often contributed to the paper. The March 1978 issue, for instance, included an article titled "Who Really Killed Malcolm X," by William M. Kunstler, and an essay on horticulture by Adam Purple, the creator of an elaborate community garden on Eldridge Street that was destroyed by the city in 1986.
The publication also offered how-to articles on activities ranging from the delinquent to the subversive. One column provided hitchhiking advice; another gave pointers on how to ride free in boxcars. An article in 1976 explained how to use bogus credit card numbers to make free phone calls, and listed on the same page numbers said to belong to the Justice Department. The same issue supplied phone numbers for people said to be associated with the Ku Klux Klan and the American Nazi Party, and encouraged readers to harass them with calls.

A Haven Amid the Gentry
For many years, the Yippies have run 9 Bleecker as a portal into New York for wandering musicians and political firebrands, and as a temporary crash pad for residents of the East Village. 
Indeed, even though boutiques, bars and restaurants now crowd a neighborhood once filled with men sleeping on sidewalk grates and storefronts rented by artists, 9 Bleecker endures as a countercultural haven and gathering place. Recent visitors include Dhoruba al-Mujahid bin Wahad, a former Black Panther, and Kenny Toglia, the director of the New York Medical Marijuana Patients' Cooperative. On warm days, guests discuss politics and public policy as they sit on a fire escape that runs along the front of the building.
The recent activity has focused on this Saturday's pot parade, which is now organized in part by Cures Not Wars, an advocacy group started by Mr. Beal and housed on the second floor. Volunteers stuff envelopes with promotional fliers and make tie-dyed shirts to identify the marshals for the parade, in which marchers in scores of cities worldwide will simultaneously demonstrate for legalizing marijuana for medical use and adopting other drug-related public-health measures, like needle exchanges.
"No. 9 is a meeting house and crossroads for people from all walks of life, who engage in an ongoing, rollicking debate without beginning or end," said Paul DeRienzo, the editor of Heads, a magazine about marijuana culture, and a morning news host at the freewheeling radio station WBAI (99.5 FM). Mr. DeRienzo said he had been hanging out at 9 Bleecker since 1981.
Although 9 Bleecker has sheltered as many as 10 people in the past, it has been occupied in recent years only by Mr. Beal and Ms. Torbush. She lives on the third floor while Mr. Beal sleeps in a loft on the second floor, which doubles as a library and meeting room.
The second floor also holds tall steel file cabinets stuffed with old newspapers and letters. Faded posters from Germany's Green Party dot the walls. Dusty shelves hold copies of books like "The Boys on the Bus," Timothy Crouse's account of news coverage of the 1972 presidential election.
The ground floor has an art studio, where visitors make banners, placards and posters. It also holds a grim reminder of more turbulent days. In March 1981 a bomb exploded in front of 9 Bleecker, damaging the front door and injuring two police detectives who had been examining the device. The detectives survived, but the maker of the bomb and his or her motive remain a mystery. Today that wooden door, scarred and gouged, leans against a wall in a dim corner.
Nine Bleecker continues to be home to unusual causes. Few topics have received as much of Mr. Beal's energy as ibogaine, a substance derived from a West African shrub, that he has championed as a tool to fight addiction to heroin and other drugs. In a ground-floor window, a written description of ibogaine hangs next to a surreal triptych that portrays a man ingesting ibogaine and then giving up the needle. Replicas of the artwork are placed in a wooden box outside the building, near a sign inviting passers-by to help themselves to the posters.
In 1962 a group of heroin users experimented with ibogaine, which is a hallucinogen, and said it made their withdrawal symptoms vanish. Based on that report and others, Mr. Beal, over the last 20 years, has financed research on the substance, lobbied drug companies and public agencies to push for its legalization for medical uses, and arranged to send addicts to the Netherlands, where ibogaine treatment is tolerated.
"We want to find a way to get rid of heroin addiction without replacing it with methadone, which is just another drug," Mr. Beal said. "Ibogaine appears to reverse addiction in some people and that's very significant."

Seeking to Buy Their Home
Wherever the ibogaine crusade leads, the role of 9 Bleecker as a war room for countercultural causes may be in peril. 
Mr. Beal, who has no paying job, has lived at 9 Bleecker since 1973. His monthly rent has ranged from $275 to the current $2,000, a bill that he usually pays with help from Yippie supporters.
In January 2000, Mr. Beal says in his legal complaint, he heard that Mr. Lorber was talking to potential buyers, and so he contacted an associate of the landlord and reached an agreement to buy the building for $905,000. 
But that summer, Mr. Beal said, he learned that Mr. Lorber had signed a contract to sell the building to a developer named Harlan Berger. In response, Mr. Beal and Ms. Torbush filed their suit, objecting to their eviction and the planned sale and asking the court to compel Mr. Lorber, who still owns 9 Bleecker, to sell it to them based on the prior agreement.
In October, Mr. Lorber filed papers asking the court to dismiss the lawsuit, and his petition seeking possession of 9 Bleecker, filed in Civil Court, was joined to the case. 
In an affidavit supporting Mr. Lorber's dismissal motion, Charlotte Lorber, a niece who handles his business affairs, said that there was no written agreement to sell 9 Bleecker to Mr. Beal and Ms. Torbush. Mitchell D. Goldberg, a Manhattan lawyer representing Mr. Lorber in the case, did not respond to many requests for comment.
Meanwhile, Mr. Beal is pursuing the money he needs to buy 9 Bleecker. During the last six months, he has called friends and others around the country and solicited contributions of $9,500 apiece. He said he has raised about $200,000 so far.
Mr. Beal has also solicited letters of support for a continued Yippie presence at 9 Bleecker from a variety of acquaintances, among them Paul Krassner, the satirist and founding editor of The Realist, the political magazine. 
"No. 9 was a community center for humane projects ignored by the mainstream," said Mr. Krassner, an original Yippie who coined the name Youth International Party. "It's a psychedelic relic from a bygone era that proves that you can fight City Hall."
One day two weeks ago, Mr. Beal sat near a window in 9 Bleecker Street, sipping a cup of coffee. He said that he was dedicated to fighting for the right to buy the building and that if he was forced to move, his advocacy work would be impeded. "The people in the community know us and accept us," Mr. Beal said. "They'd rather have us here than some giant high rise."

'The Herb Must Be Free!'
Through the spring, as the stock market fell, Mr. Beal began hoping that the prospect of a recession would make investors like Mr. Berger less willing to buy 9 Bleecker Street. On a sunny morning in early April, Mr. Beal and four others left the building and took the subway to the Financial District.
"The stock market is built on mass expectations," Mr. Beal said. "I think if we can adjust those expectations, we can change the market." On the trip downtown, a young woman distributed cards advertising the marijuana march, telling subway riders, "The herb must be free!"
At the corner of Broad and Wall Streets, the group stood near a sidewalk vendor selling antique stock certificates and unfurled a white banner bearing the directive "Jump." As men peered over a balcony of the New York Stock Exchange building, a guard asked Mr. Beal if he had a permit to demonstrate. Mr. Beal tartly replied that he was protected by the First Amendment and that no permit was necessary.
A young man in a suit asked what was going on.
"We're here to warn Wall Street of an imminent crash," Mr. Beal told him. "We're doing our part for America."
Members of the group handed out leaflets bearing a picture of President Bush and blaming the faltering economy on his proposed $1.6 trillion tax cut. At the bottom of the fliers was printed the legend "Yippie!" with a phone number for 9 Bleecker Street. Tourists paused to have their pictures taken with Mr. Beal.
"Dump today or jump tomorrow!" he yelled loudly. A group of several dozen high school students from New Jersey crossed Wall Street and headed toward the banner.
"Come on, let's all chant," Mr. Beal called. Many of the youths did, raising fists in the air as they passed.
"See?" Mr. Beal asked, smiling. "It's a natural."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nine Bleecker Street, above, and, from left, Ed Sanders of the Fugs, the rock group, and the prominent Yippies Abbie Hoffman and Paul Krassner. Left, Dana Beal, a Yippie leader today. (Top and below, Richard Perry/The New York Times; Inset, The New York Times 1969 )(pg. 1); The walls and doors of 9 Bleecker, left, speak politics, as does the poster held by Tracy Blevins, above, the girlfriend of the Yippie leader Dana Beal. She dresses all in pink for protests and calls herself Medical Marijuana Barbie. Below left, Mr. Beal oversees work for a recent rally. Below, Jerry Rubin, at left, and other Yippies discuss plans for the 1972 Democratic convention. (Associated Press 1972 ); "Dump today or jump tomorrow!" Mr. Beal, right, told investors at a Wall Street rally. Bottom, the facade at 9 Bleecker speaks of a Yippie paper of the past. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 8) Chart: "SOURCES: Steal This List"Steal This Book, by Abbie Hoffman (Grove Press, 1971). The provocative guide to radicalism, anarchism and youth culture. Do It! Scenarios of the Revolution, by Jerry Rubin (Simon & Schuster, 1970). A political autobiography and a manifesto for a youth revolution, written after the Chicago Seven trial. My Life in Garbology, by A.J. Weberman (Stonehill Press, 1980). A Yippie leader's account of his work in garbology, which involves sifting through the trash of the famous for information. Blacklisted News, Secret History, (Bleecker Publishing, 1983). Stories and photos culled from the Yippie house organs, The Yipster Times and Overthrow. Steal This Movie, produced and directed by Robert Greenwald. A 2000 screen biography of Abbie Hoffman, played by Vincent D'Onofrio. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); CANNABIS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (87%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (85%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); TRENDS (70%); DRUG POLICY (66%); HERBAL MEDICINE (61%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LITIGATION (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PARADES; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MARIJUANA; DRUG LEGALIZATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOUSING 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (87%); JERRY BROWN (79%) BEAL, DANA; MOYNIHAN, COLIN; LORBER, ALBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



826 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: The World: Friendly Fire; 
In Latin America, Foes Aren't the Only Danger

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

 BODY:
WHEN the fighter pilot's fire ripped through a plane carrying an American missionary family over Peru last week, the bullet holes opened up ironic points of light into American foreign policy in Latin America.
 "Know your enemy and know yourself; in 100 battles you will never be in peril," Sun Tzu wrote in "The Art of War." In Latin America, though, it is its friends and allies that the United States does not seem to want to know too well. Today, particularly where the drug war rages, it finds itself, as it has so often in the past, in the awkward position of an arm's-length embrace. 
 The American drug warriors working hand-in-hand with the Peruvian Air Force pilot were there as part of a pact struck with Peru's disgraced and exiled former president, Alberto K. Fujimori. "It was a compact with Fujimori rather than with Peruvian society," said Robert E. White, a former United States ambassador in El Salvador and Paraguay. And Mr. White, who is now president of the Center for International Policy in Washington, said that such deals may be seen as something less than a bargain by the general populations south of the border: "We don't understand in this country how much Latin Americans look on drugs as our problem and not their problem." 
The killing of a missionary and her baby in a plane that C.I.A.-employed spotters had first noticed on radar raised questions that go far beyond the drug war: What is America doing down there, and with whom? Who are its friends, and what happens when it befriends them?
Last year, the United States sent more than $1 billion in weapons, equipment and training to Latin American security forces, largely in the name of fighting drugs. It was more than all the economic and development assistance it provided to the region. A decade after the end of the cold war, Washington is working with every army in Latin America save Cuba's, and military officers, spies and their political cohorts are often its primary points of contact.
The Pentagon says democracy can grow out of this association: that working side-by-side will teach Latin American armies American values. "The sometimes overeager and trigger-happy officers of our partners in the drug wars" will learn discipline that way, as Michael Ledeen of the American Enterprise Institute wrote last week in The Wall Street Journal.
But the picture is larger than that. The Latin American military still serves and represents a ruling class far smaller and proportionately more powerful than the United States has seen since the days of the robber barons. The armies no longer run Latin America's governments directly, and they have rewritten their doctrines since the end of the cold war -- no longer scorching the earth as they did in the days of dictatorships. But they have kept their mandate to preserve the power of elites who still wield immense influence even under the region's new civilian governments. And the United States values its own ties to those powerful people -- businessmen, bankers, dynastic families and generals -- as it pursues the varied aspects of its policy, particularly the drug war and free-trade pacts.
What the United States gets out of these alliances, in part, is a variety of stability, which is useful for oil companies seeking to pump Venezuela's crude, for clothing chains seeking cheap Central American labor and for Pentagon officers trying to enforce American drug policy. The argument for such stability is that it could allow prosperity to flourish, and prosperity could transform the region's politics. The problem, though, is when stability becomes stasis and it merely preserves the old economic and political order, in which prosperity has proved to be the most difficult thing to share.
Look back 40 years, to President John F. Kennedy's Alliance for Progress, the cold-war carrot that went with the stick of coups and counterinsurgency. The program helped build factories in El Salvador. They were run by the same people who ran the rural haciendas. They dealt with their workers as peons -- same as ever -- and the factories did little to lift the lives of the poor. This fed a cycle of rebellion and repression that burst out in the late 1970's and continued until 1992.
Twenty years ago, as that violence began, a New York Times reporter asked Jose Napoleon Duarte, the centrist leader of El Salvador's new ruling junta, why the guerrillas were in the hills. The answer was pithy: "Fifty years of lies, 50 years of injustice, 50 years of frustration. This is a history of people starving to death, living in misery. For 50 years the same people had all the power, all the money, all the jobs, all the education, all the opportunities." By and large, they still do.
The American left has had its own set of prisms, often idealizing guerrillas who were no more than bitter men with automatic weapons. Lori Berenson, the American activist imprisoned for life as a Marxist revolutionary in Peru by a hooded military judge in 1996, might possibly be a case in point: Miguel Rincon, a member of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, testified at her retrial last week that she had no idea with whom she had become mixed up. 
But over the years, military and political leaders in places like Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama and Peru developed a clearer sense of the rules. They learned that it paid well to appear to be a partner of the United States and a part of American foreign policy. Even better if, like General Manuel Noriega, Panama's dictator in the 1980's, or Vladimiro Montesinos, Peru's spymaster in the 1990's, you were a close friend of the Central Intelligence Agency, providing inside information while nibbling the American embassy's canapes. And better still if you told the gringos what they wanted to hear, reinforcing their preconceptions, creating a closed loop of political analysis.
Such allies received "resources, prestige, legitimacy, and this appeal to the higher authority of the United States -- higher than the fragmented and fractured politics of their own nations and existing institutions," said Marc Chernick, a professor of government and Latin American studies at Georgetown University. The payoff often included access to arms and gentle treatment when issues like corruption, torture and inequality arose.
Peru is a particularly pointed case. It strongly suggests that "we are working with untrustworthy rogue allies," said Coletta Youngers, a senior associate at the Washington Office on Latin America, which monitors human-rights issues in the region. "We are trying to impose a military and intelligence solution to a problem that in Latin America is fundamentally economic."
Mr. Fujimori, Peru's president from 1990 until he fled the country in November, had assumed a dictator's mantle. But as he brought inflation under control, attracted new foreign investment, crushed the Marxists and appeared to fight the cocaine trade, he won a measure of approval from Washington. Even after he appeared to steal a third election, the American ambassador in Lima, John Hamilton, attended his inauguration last July. His presence, a senior official of the Clinton administration told The Times, signaled "the reality" that Mr. Fujimori "is going to head the government of Peru at least for the foreseeable future, and we acknowledge that we have mutual, bilateral business to conduct."
Reality has shifted since then. Mr. Fujimori's government lasted less than four more months. It now appears clear that it was a mafia. Mr. Montesinos, the C.I.A.'s old interlocutor, fled into hiding after videotapes showed him as a corrupter of the highest rank. The commander of Peru's armed forces from 1992 to 2000, Gen. Nicolas Hermoza, now stands accused of working with drug smugglers and depositing $14.5 million in Swiss bank accounts. Other senior Peruvian officers stand accused of selling intelligence to drug traffickers to protect them from the shoot-first, ask-later air war -- a key part of the bilateral business between Washington and Lima.
The C.I.A. contractors who man the spotter planes over the Andes were officially out of the chain of command that gave the order to fire on the plane carrying the American missionary, Roni Bowers, 35, and her seven-month-old daughter, Charity, who died. But the plane that fired was made and paid for in America. The pilot was American-trained. And even though some American officials argue that the pilot shouldn't have pulled the trigger without further checks on the airplane's identity, the intelligence that first put the missionaries in the crosshairs was American intelligence, gathered by American personnel, in furtherance of American foreign policy -- which is an attempt to solve the problem of Americans' desire to smoke, snort and shoot cocaine.
Two more deaths will matter little to thousands of peasants growing coca leaves in the Andes because growing corn and beans does not pay them enough to survive. And in the end, they may matter little in a multibillion-dollar American policy, executed by American military and intelligence officers who rely on friends in Latin America for whom past American support has meant much -- a little more immunity, a little more impunity and a lot more power.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Human remains, found in a mass grave at a former army base in Chatalun, Guatemala, and believed linked to a 36-year-long civil war, were excavated last December as an Indian girl, in foreground, held her head. (Associated Press) Chart: "How to Win Friends And Influence People"The United States has a history of secret and not-so-secret involvement in Latin America, often to its own embarrassment. A look at some of the countries in which U.S. intelligence or financial support has played a role: GUATEMALAA C.I.A. coup overthrows the democratically elected government in 1954. In the following decades, the United States supports the Guatemalan military against insurgencies by small leftist rebel groups. From the 1960's through the 1990's roughly 200,000 civilians die in the armed conflict. A White House investigation in 1995 finds murderers and torturers were on the C.I.A.'s payroll. In 1999, President Clinton apologizes for the United States' role. EL SALVADORThe United States trains and equips the army and the police during a brutal civil war in which paramilitary death squads, allied with military leaders, kill tens of thousands of citizens in the 1980's. In 1982, former President Jimmy Carter calls the El Salvador government one of the bloodthirstiest in the hemisphere. PANAMAThe United States invades Panama in 1989 to topple its dictator, Manuel Noriega. Mr. Noriega had been a valued C.I.A. informant ever since 1971, and the United States had cultivated him for years, despite strong evidence that he was corrupt. Mr. Noriega is now serving a 30-year sentence for drug trafficking and money laundering. PERUVladimiro Montesinos, long a C.I.A. asset, becomes defacto chief of Peru's spy service in 1990 and, as such, the C.I.A.'s main liaison to the nation. He runs a counter-narcotics operation created with C.I.A. support that is suspected of death-squad activities. He flees Peru in September, and has been implicated in political corruption, torture, disappearances, election-fixing and taking bribes from drug traffickers. CHILEA C.I.A.-supported coup helps Gen. Augusto Pinochet take power in 1973. His control over Chile lasts until 1990. Chilean courts are now trying to prosecute him for his role in the junta. HONDURASThe C.I.A. trains and equips Battalion 316, a secret army death-squad unit, during the 1980's. Battalion 316 uses electroshock and suffocation to interrogate leftist suspects, some of whom are killed and buried in unmarked graves. NICARAGUAThe U.S. fights the leftist government during the 1980's by creating and arming rebel forces in Central America. After Congress cuts off aid to Nicaraguan rebels, the White House and the C.I.A. attempt to raise funds by secretly selling arms to Iran.COLOMBIAWith Plan Colombia, the U.S. anti-drug effort begun last year, Colombia instantly becomes the third-largest recipient of American foreign aid after Israel and Egypt. Hundreds of U.S. military officers and civilian contractors work on counter-drug operations with the military. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LATIN AMERICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (98%); PERU (97%); GUATEMALA (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CHILE (92%); CUBA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EGYPT (79%); PANAMA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%) LATIN AMERICA; PERU

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



827 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Wyoming Keeps Low-Tax Title

BYLINE:  By Julie Flaherty 

 BODY:
Dick Cheney may have reaped more than political rewards for moving back to Wyoming. In 2000, for the fourth year in a row, Wyoming was the state with the gentlest tax bite, according to a survey by Bloomberg Personal Finance magazine. 
 States were ranked based on taxes on income, purchases, real estate and other assets of four hypothetical families. Following Wyoming on the low-tax list were Tennessee, Nevada, Washington and Alaska. 
 The state with the highest taxes was again Rhode Island. It was followed by Montana, New York, Maine and Wisconsin.
The survey is a reminder that an income tax is only part of a state's tax profile. Some states that have relatively high taxes for working families may be more appealing to retirees. California and North Carolina, ranked 39th and 40th because of the tax pinch they put on wage earners, each jumped 24 places, to 15th and 16th, when it came to their kinder treatment of retirees' assets.
 Julie Flaherty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); FAMILY (87%); TRENDS (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PERSONAL FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: BLOOMBERG PERSONAL (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (74%) FLAHERTY, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) WYOMING

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



828 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush's Beginning 

 BODY:
We are not among those who complain that the tradition of measuring the first hundred days of a presidency has turned into an empty ritual. It is a convenient way to demarcate a period in which a new chief executive and the American people learn things that cannot emerge in the campaign vortex. The glimpses we get often can be valuable and even prophetic. Before the end of his first 100 days as president, Franklin D. Roosevelt rescued the banking system and won approval of 15 major laws. John F. Kennedy suffered the Bay of Pigs fiasco and Ronald Reagan proposed a sweeping economic program and survived an assassination attempt. Bill Clinton struggled to enact his economic policies and health care reforms amid the chaos created by his swirling personal style and distracting issues like gays in the military. 
 By contrast with the examples above, George W. Bush has had a placid 100 days. Yet as we measure them today, the most striking feature on the domestic front is the emergence of a deep-rooted, unnuanced and sometimes almost truculent conservatism from a man once regarded even by many Republicans as a moderate. As for international relations, Mr. Bush passed his first major test through a combination of caution, luck and a commendable ability to take good advice from a sound foreign-policy team. In his unscripted public performances, Mr. Bush has seemed clumsy and amateurish by the standards of the four presidents mentioned above. But his sunny self-confidence, even his penchant for bankers' hours and long weekends, seems to sit well with many Americans. It is a relief, they seem to be saying, to have a president who is not so tiring and omnipresent as Mr. Clinton. 

The Inner Conservative
Mr. Reagan concentrated so fiercely on cutting government spending and taxes that he was willing to set aside the harsh agenda of the socially conservative members of his so-called base. His aides worked hard to minimize his image as uncaring and disengaged from the problems of working Americans. Mr. Bush seems to feel no such qualms, as he has installed regulatory and economic policies geared toward corporate interests and tax policies designed to comfort the inheriting class. Sometimes there seems something almost Oedipal in Mr. Bush's revitalization of Republican stereotypes, as if by invoking them he can avoid the conservative revolt on taxes that upended his father's presidency. It is not simply that Mr. Bush is pursuing the biggest tax cut since the Reagan era. He is seeking to overturn nearly a generation of advances in the environment, repealing job safety rules and trying to deregulate industry in areas ranging from consumer product safety to monopoly concentration. On abortion, whereas Mr. Reagan's first Supreme Court appointment was the moderate Sandra Day O'Connor, Mr. Bush seems bent on producing a Supreme Court that will overturn Roe v. Wade and lower courts that will enhance states' rights at the expense of federal protections.
The one leavening element in his approach has to do with education, where Mr. Bush's call for more federal spending and higher standards embodies an activism and interest eschewed by previous Republican presidents. In a separate area, his troubling proposal to help the poor by providing aid to religious organizations is still being formulated.
Although we would be happy to be proved wrong, our conclusion from the record of the first hundred days is that on domestic policy, Mr. Bush will go to the right every chance he gets. Those who want to see more fiscal and social moderation can only hope that someone in the White House, perhaps his political guru Karl Rove, will have a better ear than Mr. Bush for what the public will tolerate in the environmental and regulatory arenas.

International Relations
Dealing with China provided the most serious foreign-policy tests for Mr. Bush. Over all, he has taken a more careful approach than the one he signaled in his first statement on the downed spy plane and his varying statements last week on the defense of Taiwan. His handling of the spy plane incident and the limitation of arms sales to Taiwan suggest that despite his domestic conservatism, he might in foreign relations follow the tradition of the pragmatic internationalist wing of the Republican Party rather than that of its cold-war-era hawks. His reaching out to allies in the Americas for a trade deal carries the same message.
But the issue of how Mr. Bush will handle America's role in the world is far from settled. One situation to watch will be the eventual outcome of the tussles between Secretary of State Colin Powell as the diplomatic moderate and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, who seems inclined to analyze the world in terms of historic or emerging military threats. Right now, Vice President Dick Cheney is perceived as more in Mr. Rumsfeld's camp, and the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, perhaps more in Mr. Powell's.
The first couple months of this administration were not very successful for Mr. Powell, whose policies of building a regional consensus against Iraq and continuing engagement with North Korea were all but repudiated after he announced them. But with the successful conclusion of the China episode, we hope that his role is strengthened and that he uses his influence to urge caution about withdrawing troops from Eastern Europe and the Mideast and about going ahead with an untested missile defense system that could start a new arms race.
Mr. Rumsfeld has brought a steady hand to Pentagon management and has embarked on a review of military strategy that could make American planners more selective on defense spending and procurement in the future. Our fear is that it could, if mishandled, lead to a costly and destructive military buildup designed to counter the threats that Mr. Rumsfeld perceives, but which could actually turn other countries toward more bellicose policies than they might otherwise embrace.

Testing Time
In January it was a cliche to say that expectations were low for Mr. Bush, who lost the popular vote to Vice President Al Gore. Today the general public appears to have moved past the ballot-counting disputes and grown comfortable with Mr. Bush's legitimacy as president. That represents a considerable political accomplishment in only three months. Many citizens seem to like his personality, but at the same time a survey by the Pew Foundation says that he is becoming "defined more by his policy positions than his personality traits."
This suggests to us that barring a major international crisis, the biggest problems Mr. Bush faces have to do with his outmoded environmental policies and a tax plan that, to borrow one of Mr. Bush's favorite terms, is in itself a form of class warfare. The move to lower acceptable levels of arsenic in drinking water was a ludicrous public-relations blunder on the order of the Reagan administration's declaring ketchup to be a vegetable. But the reversal on carbon dioxide emissions, the humbling of Christie Whitman as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the threats to Mr. Clinton's forest protection plan, the weakening of the Endangered Species Act and the renouncing of the Kyoto agreement on global warming depict a mindset that is anything but comic. The decision to have Mr. Cheney, a petroleum millionaire, form a national energy policy behind closed doors echoes Mr. Clinton's mistake on health care and also, in our view, misreads the public mood. This country is already safe enough for oil and mining companies. It is the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge that needs protecting.
On taxes, the second hundred days will give us a reading on Mr. Bush's real feelings about bipartisanship and his potential as a deal maker with Congress. Until the last couple weeks, for instance, he has demanded that his proposed $1.6 trillion tax cut over 10 years be passed in full. Though he has support for that tax package in the House, he must now decide whether to pare it back enough to win over the moderate Democrats and two independent Republicans whose opposition has blocked Senate approval of the tax cuts at Mr. Bush's figure. Perhaps he is haunted by his father's troubles with the tax issue, but Mr. Bush might already have a politically salable tax cut if he had not followed Mr. Cheney's counsel to play tough with the Senate. 
It would be smarter politics for Mr. Bush to go with the moderates, accepting a smaller tax cut and more spending for schools. He could then work with the same moderates to skew the cut away from awarding more than 40 percent of its benefits to the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers. Perhaps that is where his heart is, but there are more votes among working-class and middle-class taxpayers who really deserve relief.

Style and Character
At the level of manners, Mr. Bush has kept his promise to bring "honor and dignity" back to the White House. But he needs to declare true independence from Washington's culture of influence peddling by embracing campaign finance reform and by every now and then saying no to the oil, gas and timber industries and the capital's corporate lobbyists. It seems paradoxical to say so, but Mr. Bush seems comfortable in his skin as a person and yet still unsure of himself as an explainer of his presidency. He came to the White House with brief schooling in public affairs, and he is clearly not fully at ease in detailed discussions of his policies. When you parse his sentences, it is still quite striking how many of them turn into verbal collisions. But he would not be the first successful president lacking gifts of articulateness. 
What concerns us after 100 days is that the nation still has little idea about where Mr. Bush is on the presidential learning curve, how much he has mastered the basic knowledge required for the office. Another lingering question is whether his innate conservatism and an outsized fear of the G.O.P. Congressional bullies will lead him to a crabbed, aggressive style that embraces inclusiveness in words, small gestures and spirit, but not in substance and in delivery of his promised policies to remove the toll booth from the road to the middle class. There are those who say that in terms of overcoming his verbal tics and gaffes, Mr. Bush is as good as he will ever get. But oratory is not everything. We remain optimistic that Mr. Bush will continue in his basically sound approach to foreign policy and trade. And we remain hopeful that he will grow in compassion for average Americans and his sensitivity to the environment.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); APPROVALS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); ASSASSINATION (71%); POLITICS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); PRODUCT SAFETY (60%); ABORTION (60%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (54%); ARMED FORCES (54%); GAYS & LESBIANS (54%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMS SALES ABROAD; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%) CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



829 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: IN EARLY BATTLES, BUSH LEARNS NEED FOR COMPROMISES 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 28 

 BODY:
George W. Bush, who came to the presidency vowing to change the tone of Washington and the policies of his predecessor, has found that Washington has compelled him to change as well, both by moderating his own tone and by accepting compromises on some of his top priorities.
 Mr. Bush has been widely praised for his administration's discipline, the speed with which he won consensus for what will likely prove to be one of the biggest tax cuts since the Reagan era, and the largely successful way he faced his first foreign challenge, an unexpected confrontation with China. Not surprisingly, Mr. Bush has given himself high marks. 
 "There's less name-calling and finger-pointing," he said today in a radio address on the eve of his 100th day in office. "We're sharing credit. We are learning we can make our points without making enemies." 
Yet Mr. Bush is also discovering that presidents must pick their fights with care. Quietly, often denying it along the way, Mr. Bush has been forced because of Congressional opposition to excise school vouchers from his education proposals and shelve the idea of drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which he once called an essential element of a national energy policy. And in the last few days, after adamantly insisting for so long that $1.6 trillion was "the right number" for a tax cut over the next 10 years, he has begun to concede that he will have to settle for a smaller figure.
"He knew the moment would come to compromise," a top Bush adviser said the other day. "It's just come a little faster than some anticipated."
The changes in Mr. Bush's approach are subtle, and his aides insist that he is governing the nation with the same principles and approach he used in governing Texas. His detractors say otherwise; that he has proven far more conservative in the White House than he appeared as a candidate.
But even his critics say he is a far more confident leader than he was on Jan. 20, something he demonstrated in Quebec last weekend, when he handled questions on Latin American politics, drugs and trade issues with a degree of subtlety that was missing in his first days in the White House. 
Yet he has begun to discover, as most presidents do, that the world looks far more complicated from inside the Oval Office than it did from the campaign trail.
Just a year ago he was denouncing the Clinton administration for pouring money into every failing economy around the world; last weekend he told a journalist from Argentina that he might consider helping prop up her country's troubled economy. A few days later he did exactly that for Turkey.
His face-off with China early this month gave him a boost in approval ratings for defusing a potentially explosive situation, but his comments since about China and Taiwan, which weaved toward a change of policy and then back again, have shown his continuing unease.
"He's still searching for the right tone for talking to the world," one senior aide concedes.
At home that tone is friendly but studiously unemotive, more Eisenhower than Reagan. But when it comes to courting conservatives who doubted if he was a true believer, it is Mr. Reagan who most comes to mind. Even conservatives say they have been surprised at the degree to which Mr. Bush has sought their views, incorporated their policies and placed them in prominent posts.
Like Mr. Reagan, he is a delegator. But Mr. Reagan never made use of the president's father, who was Mr. Reagan's vice president, the way George W. Bush makes use of Vice President Dick Cheney. Because Mr. Cheney is an older, more experienced hand with no presidential ambitions of his own, his behind-the-scenes role appears difficult to overstate. He is running Mr. Bush's energy review and is expected to play an important role in shaping Mr. Bush's thinking on national missile defense, which Mr. Bush will discuss in a speech on Tuesday. And Mr. Cheney remains the White House's main channel to Congress and the conservative media.
Mr. Cheney also plays a role, some aides say, in calming Mr. Bush, who angers more quickly than his father did, especially when the White House wanders from its prepared scripts.
"George W. Bush has a little more of his mother in him," says Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, who worked in the previous Bush White House. "Where his father would bite his tongue," Mr. Card said, "every once in a while George W. Bush flaps his tongue. His emotions are a little more visible for those of us who work with him. I know when he's upset. His father masked it. You learn when you're in the doghouse a little earlier now than you did with his dad."

A Premium on Charm
Mr. Bush went into office believing that likability would count a lot in Washington, just as it did in Texas. For a month, he was right. He handed out nicknames, unveiled a birthday cake for the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, and invited the Kennedy family over for hamburgers and a viewing of "Thirteen Days." Members of the Black Congressional Caucus, no friend of Republicans, were invited for a grievance session, and Mr. Bush listened intently.
In his radio address today, he claimed to be marking "100 days of Congress and the president working together."
But in the last three months, as introductions have given way to negotiations and negotiations to open conflict, Mr. Bush has discovered that in Washington, good feelings do not translate into legislative majorities. 
Consider the case of Representative George Miller, a Democrat from California and a senior member of the House committee that oversees education. Mr. Miller backed major elements of the president's education overhaul plan and helped the president show he had allies in both parties. Mr. Bush called him Big George and praised his intellect and bipartisan spirit.
The two men seemed genuinely to hit it off.
But listen to Big George now. "In the first few weeks he did reach out to Democrats," Mr. Miller said. "But we all wondered whether he would keep it up when it was time to get down to business. As it turns out, the White House went off and took a series of unilateral actions that ended any good feelings there may have been. President Bush is very friendly. Many of his policies have been less so."
Today Mr. Miller disparages Mr. Bush's environmental policies and accuses him of underfinancing education.
On Monday, when Mr. Bush will offer lunch to all 100 senators and 435 representatives, Mr. Miller and many other Democrats say they have other plans.
Was the strategy a failure?
"It's not a strategy," said Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser. "We're not trying to win the afternoon news cycle. We are trying to drain some of the hyperpartisanship out of the system. He will continue to do what he has done."
Mr. Rove knew from the start that chatting up members of Congress would not be enough, so he came up with a parallel approach: Have the president visit key states around the country, where he could put maximum pressure on wavering members of Congress. 
The result has been a blitz of travel. In the first 100 days, Mr. Bush has visited 26 states, what appears to be a modern record for the start of a presidency.
Such visits always get big local coverage, as do Mr. Cheney's weekly calls to talk-radio programs. But only occasionally do they get much national coverage. And there is a sense among many in Washington that Mr. Bush's presidency seems somehow smaller in the life of the nation. Historians like Michael Beschloss have compared it to the presidencies in the late part of the 19th century, when often the occupant of the White House did not have much to say in public. 
Mr. Bush says he does not feel compelled to show up on television"every hour of every day." He was happy to let his attorney general, John Ashcroft, make the public statements about the administration's view of the rioting in Cincinnati after the shooting of a black teenager by the police. Mr. Bush deliberately skipped the homecoming ceremony near Seattle for the 24 United States military personnel detained by the Chinese, saying it was a moment for family reunions, not for a president hogging the limelight.
Nor does Mr. Bush put on formal news conferences in the East Room, a favorite setting for past presidents. He prefers quick, impromptu questioning when meeting foreign or Congressional leaders. He has held two news conferences in the press room at very short notice. "We think that the president is taking as many or more questions than his predecessors did," said Karen P. Hughes, one of the inner circle of advisers. "But it's in his style." That style makes it easy, however, to duck queries he does not want to hear, or feels unready to answer.

First Up, Taxes
Mr. Bush's steadfast drive toward his first goal, a big tax cut, dominated his first 100 days in office. It will not be as big as he likes, as he now acknowledges. But his constant insistence that a large chunk of the surplus should be returned to the American people in the form of deep tax cuts wore down Democrats. Mr. Bush almost crows these days that during the campaign "a lot of the punditry kind of had a blank stare on their face" when he talked about tax cuts. "They thought I was, as they say, whistling into the wind," he told an enthusiastic rally at a New Orleans baseball stadium on Wednesday. Now, he said, "tax relief is on the way."
And despite the administration's repeated warnings of a possible recession, as the first 100 days come to a close, Mr. Bush has some reason to believe that he may have avoided a politically dangerous economic downturn. 
But if Mr. Bush changed the tone of Washington on taxes, he has failed to win support for his view of how to approach environmental issues: an insistence, born of his business experience in Texas, that any regulation must be carefully weighed against its potential costs. 
Publicly Mr. Bush's aides insist that the president has been unfairly tarred as anti-environment: He simply wanted "good science" to dictate how to change rules on arsenic levels; he was "realistic" in declaring the Kyoto treaty on global warming dead. Inside the White House, the regulations President Bill Clinton left on everything from roadless areas in the national forests to workplace ergonomic rules are derisively called "regulatory pardons."
In backing away from them, Mr. Bush revealed a blind spot in the administration's political view, one that is evident from polls showing that a growing number of Americans are worried that the president thinks more about his corporate supporters than the environment.
"We should have done a better job in setting the stage for the decisions the president made," Mr. Card now says.
The mistake has left Mr. Bush retrenching, emphasizing in his radio talk today that he let stand "sensible rules" on lead emissions, wetlands, pesticides, and pollution from diesel engines.

A Wavering Voice Abroad
Mr. Bush rarely travels these days without one aide at his side: Condoleezza Rice, the former Stanford provost who, as national security adviser, has taken on the role of tutoring Mr. Bush on the complexities of a broader world he is learning about on the job.
But Ms. Rice cannot teach him how to navigate a deep fracture in his own party, between a business community that wants him to focus on economic integration and conservatives who argue that America has been taken for a ride by Russia and China, and needs to flex its muscles as the world's sole superpower.
So far, Mr. Bush has bridged this division by sounding both themes. In the China standoff he took a tough line in the first two days, then eased back and talked of the economic damage that bad relations would wreak on both countries. With the crew of the American spy plane out of China, he has veered again, walking to the edge of redefining a willingness to defend Taiwan, then insisting that the policy has not changed.
Mr. Bush also had trouble controlling his language on dealing with North Korea, and angered Europe by giving no warning on his declaration that the Kyoto treaty would be scrapped. Foreign leaders say they like him but worry about his experience. "I left wondering whether he had read his briefing papers," said one participant in his recent meeting with the president of Chile.
While he has met with the leaders of many important friendly countries, including Japan, Germany, Britain, Canada and Mexico, and even made time last week to sip coffee for an hour with the prime minister of St. Kitts (population 39,000), Mr. Bush has yet to sit down with Vladimir V. Putin of Russia or Jiang Zemin of China.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, speaking in New Orleans last week, appears to have traveled more than his predecessors at this point in their presidencies. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1); President Bush began a recent workday by writing letters in the Oval Office. He later met there with Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, and Karen P. Hughes, counselor to the president. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EXCISE TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); CONSERVATISM (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (52%); WILDLIFE (51%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (51%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); ARCTIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



830 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Those Little Town Blues, in Old New York?; 
Giuliani's Capital of the World, Insisting It's Greater Than Fort Worth

BYLINE:  By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Perhaps the worst sports event in history played out in Dallas's unrelenting triple-digit heat in July 1984 during the running of the Dallas Grand Prix, a Formula One auto race meant to bring the cosmopolitan panache of Monte Carlo to the steamy streets around the Cotton Bowl.
 Sweltering race fans collapsed in the stands. So many cars overheated and broke down that only 8 of 25 finished the race. One driver was treated for heat exhaustion when he collapsed while trying to push his car across the finish line. It was, in short, an utter triumph. "If there is any doubt in anyone's mind that we are truly an international city, we certainly have dispelled that," Mayor Starke Taylor exulted. 
 Reasonable minds may differ on whether New York has joined Dallas in the ranks of truly international cities. But when Mayor Starke, er, Rudolph W. Giuliani last week unveiled plans for what is informally being called the Tour de Manhattan, a 100-kilometer bicycle race to be held in Lower Manhattan a week after the Tour de France, it raised an intriguing question: How come New York, once lordly and imperious, now finds itself regularly competing on the promotional turf of third-tier cities where a big night out means dinner at the Olive Garden and taking in "Freddy Got Fingered" at the mall multiplex? 
Or to put it bluntly: New York, hick town or truly international city?
You make the call.
"We're imitating the tawdry events of second- and third-class cities; I don't know why," said Marshall Blonsky, a professor of communications at New York University and a senior fellow at the New School University. "They're putting on events to show they're world class, when they're not, and we're imitating second-rate cities pretending to be first rate. It's really quite curious."
Of course, the race -- blending the current fitness vogue; a worthy beneficiary, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center; and a TV-ready locale -- may be a big hit.
And if any American city can claim to be truly international, it is New York, where cabdrivers can get you lost in 132 different languages and dialects.
But to look at the municipal agenda of recent weeks, it can be hard to see much that would not be at home in Indianapolis or Charlotte.
There is the mayor's raging stadium envy; stadiums have long been the top agenda item for towns and cities on the make from Arlington, Tex., to Pittsburgh. In the interim, New Yorkers can get excited about the new minor league teams and stadiums scheduled for Brooklyn and Staten Island.
There's angst about the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and the city's ability to compete with Chicago and Atlanta for conventions of cosmetologists, anthropologists and plumbing supply manufacturers.
The mayor is also doing his best to gin up his decency panel to screen out offensive works of art, a concept reminiscent of Dallas's Motion Picture Classification Board, which for 27 years scoured newly released films for offensive content until the city got rid of it almost a decade ago. Eager-to-please urban attractions, like the Chelsea Piers, hustle to offer suburban pleasures like driving ranges. And there is Times Square, once the quintessence of urban sin, now a suburb of Orlando.
There are two seemingly contradictory trends in play.
The first is the triumph of nice. We have a nice president and first lady. Demographic trends continue to favor nice places like Salt Lake City, Phoenix or Atlanta over gritty ones like the older industrial cities of the Northeast. It is probably no accident that New York shrank during the nasty old "Bonfire of the Vanities" days and began to grow again when people from Birmingham and Dubuque visited and went home saying that New Yorkers weren't so bad. People want an urban experience, but a nice one -- "Friends" and "You've Got Mail," not "Taxi Driver" and "Blade Runner."
Second is the mania for being a Truly International City. When Atlanta was awarded the 1996 Olympics, the delirious headline in the newspapers crowed: "World Class." In Charlotte, where The Charlotte Observer is forever running articles with headlines like "Charlotte Hits Big Time: We Need 2 Phone Books," people speculate, at least half seriously, that the local newspaper has a policy that the words "world class" or "truly international city" must run at least once a day.
Ever since Atlanta snared the Olympics, half the cities of America -- New York included -- have been dreaming of doing the same thing or trying to produce extravaganzas with just the right aroma of world-classiness.
New York officials hit the same notes.
"New York City is the greatest city in the world, and the sports capital of the world," said Kenneth J. Podziba, the city's sports commissioner. "We feel we're the best, but we can always get better, which is what we're trying to do."
Many people have a simple explanation for New York's recent behavior. It begins with a "G." "New York had a long, proud tradition of boasting only of its unlivability, but that was before Giuliani," said Ann Douglas, a writer who teaches American studies at Columbia. "New York is a world city in a way no other American city can be. It doesn't need to boast. But I think the city's more rooted incarnation is an anti-Giulianian one. Cities go through climatic periods, and we're going through one period now, but it will change again."
Others see more substantial trends.
Phillip Lopate, the author who teaches at Hofstra University, said that with the decline of manufacturing and the port, New York now competes regularly for business with cities it once disdained. And in that competition, cities are selling images as much as realities.
"In the post-industrial period, cities have to position themselves as cultural flytraps and to market themselves based on images; the image of city life becomes a product of the city," he said. "If you use the canyons of Wall Street as a resonant stage set for a race, it's what we're doing all the time here: holding onto the old built environment and putting it to a new use. It's part of the image we're selling."
And Kenneth T. Jackson, editor of The Encyclopedia of New York City and a history professor at Columbia, said that New York would be foolish not to preen and market itself as aggressively as its less-lofty competitors. "Part of the charm of New York may be that we don't give a damn about a lot of things that other cities care about, but the fact is cities are in a very competitive environment, and in some ways we don't compete as well," he said. "Places like Dallas and Atlanta and Houston have done a really good job in the last half century of selling themselves, and New York has to sell, too."
And, he added, for most of its history New York has hardly been a lofty sanctuary for artistes and litterateurs, but the world's most tenacious capital of commerce and avarice, a place where Charlotte's cut-to-the-chase, mid-70's civic slogan, "Charlotte -- A Good Place to Make Money," would not have been inappropriate.
There are, of course, questions about how much promotional events really produce. Atlanta got a new stadium, road improvements and some student housing out of the Olympics. It also saw its downtown compared to a flea market and an unsolved bombing that marred the games.
Indeed, civic boosters have produced more than their share of flops. 
A chapter of boosterism run amuck could be devoted to the Spring Palace, an exhibit hall and tourist attraction in Fort Worth, Tex., built in 1889 at a cost of $100,000. Every inch of the structure was covered with Texas flora like wheat, corn, cactus, rye, moss and Johnson grass. A local historian modestly described it as "easily the most beautiful structure ever erected on earth," until it burned to the ground a year later. Apparently it had not occurred to anyone that a building made out of oats, popcorn and Johnson grass might be a fire hazard.
Still, Professor Jackson said, from Fort Worth in the 19th century to New York in the 21st, cities rest on their laurels at their peril. Which is why what promises to be (A) the ultimate urban extravaganza or (B) the ultimate urban doomsday machine -- New York's bid for the 2012 Olympics -- continues to plow ahead.
"The entrepreneurial spirit of New York got the Erie Canal built, the stock exchange; nothing came out of whole cloth," Professor Jackson said. "A bike race may be lame compared to the Erie Canal, but you've got to think of something."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo illustration by The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITIES (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); AUTO RACING (77%); FORMULA ONE RACING (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (73%); CYCLING (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (71%); TRENDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CANCER (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) APPLEBOME, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (88%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



831 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 3142 words

HEADLINE: Strom In the Balance 

BYLINE:  By James Bennet; James Bennet is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
In his front-row seat in the Senate chamber, Strom Thurmond sits with mouth slackly agape. His thin, rust-colored hair is stretched back from the top of his head, so straight that some strands do not follow the curve of his skull but float out behind it. His hands have grown enormous, spidery, and the fingers don't bend as easily as they once did at knuckles that have come to look like walnuts. Those hands were cut up in the crash landing of an Army glider flown over the bloody Normandy beaches; Thurmond was already 44 years old then. Now he occasionally raises them to touch his eyebrows, his cheeks and his lips with his index fingers, straight as chopsticks, or to pat that wayward hair. As his name approaches in the roll call -- around about the R's -- the aide seated beside him leans over and whispers urgently in his ear. Then, as the senator's name is called, the aide taps him on the elbow, and Thurmond rises to his feet to cry out, "No!" 
 It has come to this. Through a lifetime that witnessed the extension of the vote to women, the advent of television and jet travel, Prohibition and its repeal, the liberation of Buchenwald, the birth of the Soviet Union and its death, the crash of '29 and the Internet bubble, Strom Thurmond has been many things: progressive educator, New Dealer, soldier, race-baiter, presidential aspirant, Goldwater Republican and husband of beauty queens. Now he is the oldest senator ever. His prized dignity under siege, he is the subject of a death watch by his colleagues on Capitol Hill and his fellow politicians in South Carolina, his accumulated influence exercised by his estranged wife and loyal staff in a prolonged anticlimax that is by turns tenderly gothic and cruelly antic, part "As I Lay Dying" and part "Weekend at Bernie's." 
 Yet what is most striking about this 98-year-old man, who as president pro tempore of the Senate is third in line for the presidency, is not how ancient he looks but how well he suits his environment, like the brass spittoons lingering beneath some varnished desks. He is at the faded edge of the gray continuum that is the United States Senate. His extreme case has masked the advancing ages of his colleagues, seven of whom are more than 70 years old. The junior senator from South Carolina, Fritz Hollings, was born in 1922. Behind Thurmond and to his left sits Jesse Helms of neighboring North Carolina, pale and shiny as a shelled egg, his four-legged cane beside him. He was born 14 presidents ago, in 1921. Across the floor is Robert Byrd, natty as ever in brown suit and brown and beige dappled vest, thick white hair swept up and back, sharp eyes roving. Born 1917. And here, moving surprisingly stiffly and slowly, comes leonine John Warner of Virginia, the man who replaced Thurmond as chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee a couple of years ago when Thurmond acknowledged that he had aged beyond the task. Warner was born in 1927.
The younger senators move briskly among their older colleagues like cheerful, efficient nurses. When he spies one of them, Thurmond leans over to his aide, apparently to confirm that the blonde is, in fact, Hillary Rodham Clinton. He reaches into his desk drawer and, slowly working those chopsticks, extracts something from a plastic bag. When she comes within range, he presses against the arms of his chair and raises himself slowly to his feet. Helped by his aide, he totters over to Clinton, seizes her right hand with his left and gives her the bag's contents: a couple of pieces of candy.
It may be hard sometimes to escape the impression that the Senate chamber resembles the fossil-strewn reading room of some Ivy League club, occupied by alumni from before the Depression, men with rich lives behind them and no place else to go. But it is equally hard to escape the judgment of which institution does better at capitalizing on their experience. Offering excellent health care, the stimulating presence of young people, a range of activities from simple to complex and relevancy, the Senate is the most effective nursing home in the world, which no doubt helps explain why Thurmond has lived so long. 
And while the Senate is good for the aged, on balance, they are good for it. Of all the rapacious influences to which senators are vulnerable, age is properly far down the list of the Republic's worries.
With the Senate split in half and Vice President Dick Cheney available to break any tie, Republicans are desperate to keep Thurmond voting. Democrats, meanwhile, tried to slow down the budget process in hopes that they might gain another vote if Jim Hodges, the Democratic governor of South Carolina, got the chance to appoint a replacement. Yet it is one of the strange consequences of his long career that Thurmond seems as popular these days among his Democratic colleagues as among the Republicans. Republican and Democrat, senators stop in the chamber to greet him. A few seem eager to move on, but others stoop as Thurmond clutches at their forearms, for they know that though he is too vain to use a hearing aid most of the time, he can still converse. As Helms shuffles past to vote, he pats Thurmond's shoulder, then pumps his right fist skyward in an age-defying gesture of encouragement and solidarity.
Thurmond, his associates say, has his good days and bad days. No one pretends that he is fully up to the job. Earlier this session, he gave up a task he loved: calling the Senate to order. He still votes regularly, but those eloquent remarks attributed to him in the Senate record are not uttered on the floor but submitted by his staff. Because of what his office calls fatigue, he has been back and forth in the past year to Walter Reed Hospital. His attendance at hearings has become spotty, like his memory, his friends say, of events after 1984. For the first time, he is receiving assistance at his condominium in nearby Alexandria, Va. Clinging to two aides, he takes six-inch steps through the Capitol. As he minces, the rumors race -- from senators to Congressional aides to reporters: Strom is back in the hospital! Strom has liver cancer! Thurmond partisans roll their eyes and note that the graveyards are full of people waiting for him to die.
Is he physically weaker?" asks a senator who sees Thurmond frequently. "Yeah, a lot weaker." But, saying that he had not detected any new mental weakness, this senator adds: "I'm not prepared to say he's not cognizant of how he's voting. He's just getting more tired. It's harder to walk; it's harder to stay steady."
As a young man, just to prove he could do it, Thurmond ran 20 miles in canvas sneakers, continuing even after his toenails came off. A fitness buff who forswore coffee and tobacco and who seldom drank, he has always been proud of his toughness and physical strength. He still refuses to use a wheelchair in the Senate, though he sometimes uses one privately. His physical decline, therefore, is particularly poignant. "There's a term out here now that's never been heard before about Strom, that he's 'weak,"' says Jack Bass, co-author with Marilyn Thompson of the biography "Ol' Strom."
Hard as it has been to witness that deterioration, however, what has particularly saddened Thurmond's friends and admirers has been a series of embarrassing revelations and denials involving his second wife, Nancy. The senator was 66 when he married Nancy Moore, a 22-year-old former Miss South Carolina who had been an intern in his office. Dropping out of law school shortly before her wedding, Nancy Thurmond became an effective campaigner and influential adviser for her husband, and there was talk in political circles that she might run for his seat when he eventually retired. But he didn't. In 1991, the couple separated, and in 1993, their eldest daughter was killed by a drunken driver. Three years later, Nancy Thurmond was arrested for driving drunk, and she later admitted to struggling with alcohol and diet pills.
Beginning early last year, rumors circulated among South Carolina politicians that Nancy Thurmond, now 54, was interested in replacing her husband. In November, Senator Thurmond remarked to a reporter that he might retire early so that his estranged wife could serve out his term. "I wouldn't object to serving two or three months less if she'd like to do it, if that would make her happy," he said. "She's been with me all these years, worked hard."
Of course, if Thurmond stepped down, it would not be up to him but to Governor Hodges to pick his replacement. Once the report of the senator's comment appeared, Hodges's office said that a month earlier Nancy Thurmond had asked the governor to appoint her to her husband's seat but that he had demurred. Nancy Thurmond denied making that request, and the senator issued a statement saying he would serve out his term, which ends in 2002.
Fast-forward to February. The State newspaper in Columbia reported that at her meeting with the governor, Nancy Thurmond played a videotape of the senator supporting her as his successor. That report came on top of news that the senator had nominated his 28-year-old son, Strom Jr., or Little Strom as he is known in South Carolina, to be the state's next United States attorney. And it came on top of a letter to the White House on Thurmond's stationery reportedly requesting a job interview on behalf of Dr. Robert Oldham, following up on a request that had been made to the Bush team by telephone. Oldham is chairman of the South Carolina Biotechnology Association, of which Nancy Thurmond is executive director, and he is also delicately identified as her "social companion" in the local press. Suddenly, Strom Thurmond was being criticized back home. It seemed for the first time that he was out to feather his nest -- or that he was being used.
Hodges refuses to comment on the videotape, and Nancy Thurmond refuses to grant interview requests. "That's all been covered in previous statements" was all Oldham would tell me. That was apparently a reference to a lengthy statement issued last month by Nancy Thurmond, in which she denied that she had any interest in replacing her husband. She said that the videotape was a thank-you to South Carolina, to be shown in the event of a disabling illness or death, and that she had helped him prepare it without the knowledge of his staff. She also said that she had called and written the White House not to get Oldham a job but to schedule a meeting for him to give advice on drug development.
Thurmond, some of his associates say, remains very protective of Nancy and even hopeful that she will come back to him. One friend of the family says that he hopes the senator is not following the news about her. "It would be terribly offensive to Strom," he says. "He's always been supermacho about himself."
But another, closer, friend, Armstrong Williams, the syndicated columnist, says that the senator raised the subject with him in mid-March: "He asked me in the office, 'What are we going to do about Nancy?' and he chuckled." Thurmond, he says, was concerned about her dignity, not at all worried about his own. 
Hodges, who has had a rocky relationship with the national Democratic Party, refuses to say whom he would appoint. He will not even indicate what party he would turn to, only that he would seek a "caretaker," someone unlikely to run for a full term. "I think it's tacky to talk about a vacancy that doesn't exist," he says. "I believe he'll continue to serve in that seat until the term is up." The chairman of the state Democratic Party, Dick Harpootlian, says that he has no doubt that Hodges will pick a Democrat in the end. Fearing that, Republicans in the State Assembly passed a bill to compel him to pick a Republican. But the measure has little support in the State Senate.
Even Democrats in Columbia seem sick of the spotlight on the senior senator. "Austrian television is in town," Harpootlian snorts as he sorts through a stack of telephone messages. "Reference Sen. Thurmond."' State Senator John Courson, a fellow Republican and self-described disciple of Thurmond's, expresses dismay about the media attention. "It takes away from this incredible aura of public service and courageous public stances he's taken over the years," he says. Courson, who last spoke with Thurmond when the senator was in Columbia at Christmas, insists that if Thurmond ever doubts he can make the right decisions about his voting, he will resign. But when I ask if Thurmond is capable of making such a judgment about himself, Courson replies, "That's a very good question." He pauses for a long moment. "I would say yes," he finally says.
But what difference would it make if the answer was no? All senators are only as good as their aides -- and each has an average of 43 of them, not counting the committee staff. Every senator, at least sometimes, relies on staff members or colleagues to guide votes. Senators count on their aides to clean up or even create their remarks in the official record, to brush the dandruff from their shoulders, to give them the background on the next donor they must call. Thurmond has merely plumbed the reductio ad absurdum of such enabling -- actually, others have plunged deeper, not showing up to vote for years -- and if his constituents don't mind, why should anyone else? In 1996, they re-elected him by a comfortable margin to what he said would be his last term. Some South Carolina politicians say that Thurmond could be re-elected even if he were dead.
Which raises an interesting question: Why is this old man, who has seldom visited home or addressed his constituents in recent years, so popular? His popularity's endurance does not have much to do with legislative leadership. Thurmond has little to show, legislatively, for his 46 years in the Senate. When I ask for an example of a significant law that would not have passed without Thurmond's influence, Thomas Mann, an expert on the Congress at the Brookings Institution, is stumped. "He's just never been a major player in the body," he says.
Jack Bass, Thurmond's biographer, argues that the senator was critical in blocking the appointment of Abe Fortas as chief justice of the United States, which delayed the retirement of Earl Warren and ultimately gave Nixon a crucial extra appointment to the Supreme Court. And, Bass says, Thurmond also blocked George Wallace's insurgency, handing Nixon the presidency in 1968. Fair enough -- but both of those achievements came before the Beatles broke up.
While he may not have dominated the Senate, Thurmond has worked every obscure South Carolina fair for decades. Until recently, every child who graduated from high school received a congratulatory letter from the senator, and it seems sometimes as if every one of them went on to intern in his office. In 1996, Thurmond's Democratic opponent, Elliott Close, polled voters with an unusual question: How many of them had met the senator face to face? A whopping 68 percent said that they had. Thurmond's Senate office is still plugging away, helping state residents with their taxes, health benefits and legal troubles. The office has also continued to push for federal projects in the state, like financing for a proposed plutonium treatment plant at the Savannah River nuclear complex. 
Yet Thurmond's popularity seems to spring less from what he does than from who he is. His sulfurous Dixiecrat campaign for president is all but forgotten. Astonishingly, it was omitted, with his permission, from a list of achievements beneath a statue of Thurmond recently erected outside the Statehouse in Columbia. More enduring has been Thurmond's reputation for incorruptibility and unpretentiousness, together with his image as a rake, which has done him great political good. In "Ol' Strom," Bass and Thompson reported that in his 40's Thurmond seduced a convict on her way to the electric chair. His constituents and fellow senators love to retail stories about his attentions to the ladies, including one, which he denied, that he groped a fellow senator, Patty Murray of Washington. ("Are you married, little lady?" he was reported by Senator Barbara Boxer to have inquired mid-grope.) Thurmond gets to have such stories both ways. They do not hurt him, because he is too old to be seen as a predator. At the same time, they make him seem virile despite his age.
And at bottom, it is longevity that has made Thurmond a "legend," the label inevitably applied to him. He is popular because he is still alive. In 1996, Close tried to turn Thurmond's age against him but found instead that it cut the other way. Kevin Geddings, Close's media consultant, kept hearing the same response from focus groups to suggestions that Thurmond was no longer up to the job: "He's been giving his whole self to the state for 70 years, and if he wants to serve out the rest of his life in office, who are we not to give him that?" Williams says his fellow Carolinians have come to regard Thurmond as a link with fading traditions and even as a biblical figure. "They say, 'The Lord must have saw fit for him to live so long.' It's mystical, mythical." 
Thurmond's most lasting accomplishment may be just that -- lasting. "I wish I had his bloodline," says Senator Joe Biden, the Delaware Democrat (born 1942). "He's incredible. He is absolutely, mind-bogglingly incredible." Thurmond is by most accounts not an introspective man or an enthusiastic storyteller -- he has never wanted to waste time with such chitchat -- and he appears to have left no comprehensive account of the extraordinary change he witnessed, at least not yet. Still, he is wondered at for having witnessed so much. Harpootlian, who came to know and admire Thurmond while prosecuting the driver who killed his daughter, marvels that the senator in his youth knew veterans of the Civil War. "Some of the people he talked to, when they were young, they had seen Andrew Jackson," he says. "I mean, I talked to a guy, who talked to a guy, who had seen Andrew Jackson!"
Of course, the same, or similar, things could be said of many very old people moldering in rest homes, unasked about what they might have seen or whom they might have spoken to. But where longevity usually visits cruelties upon the aged, it has instead bestowed kindnesses on Thurmond. It has made him more popular, not less. It has given more heft to every word he says. It has brought him celebrity, not obscurity. Being so very old has, in sum, made Strom Thurmond powerful. "Strom takes on an importance individually because of his possible departure that he never had as a member of the Senate," Mann says. In his frailty, Thurmond is looming larger as a presence in the Senate than he ever did in his prime. He has lasted long enough that he is famous and popular, in the end, for having lasted so long. And his weakness has made him strong. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 29 about Senator Strom Thurmond misstated his age at the time of the Normandy invasion, in which he participated. He was 41, not 44.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Strom Thurmond (Michael O'Neill); Ernest (Fritz) Hollings (D/S.C.), b. Jan. 1, 1922; Robert Byrd (D/W.V.), b. Nov. 20, 1917; Daniel Akaka (D/Hawaii), b. Sept. 11, 1927; Jesse Helms (R/N.C.), b. Oct. 18, 1921; Daniel Inouye (D/Hawaii), b. Sept. 7, 1924; Ted Stevens (R/Alaska), b. Nov. 18, 1923; John Warner (R/Va.), b. Feb. 18, 1927 (Kamenko; Associated Press; Reuters; Ronen Zilbermann; Inouye; Robert Trippett/Sipa Press; Michael Smith/Newsmakers/Liaison) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: DANIEL INOUYE (78%); ROBERT BYRD (78%); DANIEL AKAKA (73%); JOHN WARNER (58%); TED STEVENS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (54%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



832 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Presidents Who Aim High 

BYLINE:  By Newt Gingrich; Newt Gingrich, who was speaker of the House from 1995 through 1998, is the chief executive of the Gingrich Group, a communications and management consulting firm.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As analysts dissect President Bush's first hundred days, the most important thing to remember is that he and his administration are different from what Washington has become used to. Because Mr. Bush works in a disciplined way to implement a broad strategy, he has been able to set the stage calmly and methodically for a potentially far-reaching performance.
 Not insignificantly, the biggest changes in Washington have been cultural rather than political: the atmosphere is more businesslike, and dialogue across party lines is calmer. President Bush has already been able to change the tone dramatically, even after the 35-day, often toxic fight over the election. He has been friendly, flexible, open and very conservative -- though no reporter seems to be capable of typing those four adjectives in one sentence. Mr. Bush is willing to delegate important initiatives and decisions and give credit to others. 
 The president remains focused on the themes he campaigned on: cutting taxes, reforming education, expanding access to health care while reforming Medicare, creating personal Social Security accounts, and strengthening our military and intelligence capabilities. The only new theme to emerge in the first 100 days is the concept of the Free Trade Area of the Americas. Labor unions and the Democrats in Congress will create the opportunity and the political necessity for President Bush to engage the Hispanic community to help build real commitment to the free trade area. The debate is likely to combine diplomatic, economic and political factors enabling the Bush administration to demonstrate its commitment to free trade while emphasizing the benefits to citizens in all of the Americas.
President Bush has assembled an exceptionally competent, mature and experienced team, but while the strength of his cabinet and advisers is their ability to remain focused on large goals, they face the challenge of creating a shared commitment with the American people. Undoubtedly, the Bush team can manage the daily government and meet international challenges. The question is whether it can reach out to the country and arouse the level of support his bold proposals will require.
The Bush team is still wrestling with the objective reality that this is not a Franklin Roosevelt or Ronald Reagan era of obvious change. F. D. R. had the Great Depression and the Second World War as backdrops. Ronald Reagan inherited economic decay and the most intense Soviet effort to win the cold war. These were great administrations, but they were in times of response to great events.
Mr. Bush has been effectively barnstorming the country for his program, and this tactic is clearly working for him personally, but it may or may not be working for his programs. People see his steady activity and are impressed that he is a serious person with a real plan. Still, they are not yet convinced that they have something real at stake or that his solutions to public policy problems could dramatically change their lives for the better. Consequently, the public hasn't become engaged and hasn't put pressure to bear on Congress to get the Bush program passed.
Dwight Eisenhower was very effective in managing the system, but in the end he transformed neither his party nor the country in domestic policy. It was Barry Goldwater and Mr. Reagan, in the cold war years, who transformed the Republican Party and ultimately the country.
The last Republican president to transform the country and his party in prosperous and peaceful times was Theodore Roosevelt. He did so by knowing the difference between managerial politics and transformational politics. He knew that managing Washington was a minimalist approach. He focused on rallying the country to impose on Washington changes that reactionaries in both parties vehemently opposed.
A transformational presidency has to convince the American people that it is in their best interest to implement its plans. Unless the Bush administration can do this, it will be very hard to get Congress to make transformational changes. The morning the president convinces his party and the country that his goals are decisive in their lives and that they have to join him in insisting that Washington implement them, he will have begun to transform the system.
The environment has been the most obvious public relations failure of the administration so far, and it is also a good issue on which to note the difference between managerial and transformational styles. The Bush administration dislikes the regulatory, adversarial, litigious, government-dominated model of environmentalism that is the hallmark of liberal groups. That wing of the environmental movement is an adversary of business, free markets, private property and full-time rural residents. It favors bureaucrats, trial lawyers, government control of daily life (what kind of car you drive, what kind of gas you buy, where you are allowed to drive, what you can do with your own farm or ranch), and it favors the affluent transient rural residents who earn a living in places like Hollywood but tell Idahoans and Montanans how to live.
President Bush and Vice President Richard Cheney represent a Western distrust of Washington-controlled, bureaucratic policies. The Bush cabinet includes veterans of state government and business who know full well that the Washington-based environmental bureaucracies are politicized, anti-business, anti-local rights, and often extreme in the policies they implement. Yet the political climate is such that the Bush team cannot simply ignore the arguments of the most vocal activists in the environmental movement.
This will force a real choice on the Bush administration. A managerial, Eisenhower-style approach would create the most conservative regulatory policies that the current political system could tolerate. It would then grudgingly give the left those environmental victories it could not block. A transformational, Theodore Roosevelt-style approach would develop a vision of a healthy environment with maximum biodiversity that would attract the support of the vast majority of Americans and would use a high-technology, scientifically based, locally implemented and cooperative approach to problem solving.
The shift from a public presumption of the left's moral superiority has already occurred in education, health and social security. President Bush can make policy proposals in those areas that would have been unthinkable 20 years ago, like personal social security accounts and school choice. Today there is an opportunity for similar transformation on environmental issues.
The key to the first term will be this distinction between a managerial and a transformational approach. President Bush is a good manager, and he has assembled a good team of managers. However, his goals are far beyond the reach of normal management. Achieving his agenda will require the kind of national outpouring of support that is normally aroused by transformational strategies. It will be interesting to see how the two blend together in the second hundred days.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Chip Kidd) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLD WAR (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MEDICARE (67%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); LABOR UNIONS (51%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) GINGRICH, NEWT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



833 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
I Have a Nickname!!!

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
So I found myself on Friday in the Cobra Reading Room on the Web.
 I had discovered on the Hotline, the Racing Form of politics, that President Bush's nickname for me is "The Cobra." 
 I wasn't sure if that was an insult or a sign of respect. So I figured I'd read up on some cobra traits. 
"The cobra lives near towns where mice and rats abound." Well, I thought, that fits.
"Cobras have extensive tissues that store fat." Yup.
"The venom of cobras acts powerfully on the nerves of those it attacks." Clearly.
Maybe the president had it right. I was a major-league asp.
I puzzled over whether W. fancied himself the mongoose or the snake charmer in this allegory. Either way, I knew he would expect me to hiss a bit about his first 100 days.
It has been a strange start. Al Gore jokes he should be addressed as "Your Adequacy." But W. risks being "Your Inadequacy."
Men customarily build their presidencies around their strengths. W. has built his around his weaknesses.
His White House reminds me of the 1937 movie "Damsel in Distress," in which Fred Astaire has to frantically pirouette around Joan Fontaine to make up for the fact that she cannot dance.
Bush officials are always frantically pirouetting around W., making up for his stumbles and lacunae.
Last week, the president threw the planet into a turmoil when he went on "Good Morning America" and said he was willing to "do whatever it took to help Taiwan defend herself" against a Chinese attack, including sending American forces.
Obviously, Mr. Bush did not set out to change nearly 30 years of American policy on a morning chat show. But, sensitive about W.'s reputation as a featherweight, his aides did not want the president to have to admit he made a boo-boo and is a yo-yo who can't be trusted to carry on a brief discussion about his own policies with hard-hitting Charlie Gibson. (Hiss!)
So they tried to soften his statement while letting it stand, thereby enraging Beijing further.
On Friday night, Uncle Dick Cheney had to go on Larry King and explain in that reassuring basso that the Kid was not changing policy.
W.'s advisers tried to make him look more impressive in his first forays into diplomacy by keeping the big world leaders at bay and letting him hang out with lesser leaders he could talk to in Spanish.
So now we have a whole new alliance with Central and South American countries simply because W. feels more comfortable at what USA Today dubbed "amigo diplomacy." 
The ill-prepared president doesn't seem troubled by the state of his preparedness. There's no indication he's staying up late to make up the work. He isn't even aspiring to on-the-job training. The White House simply pretends that thoughtlessness is thoughtfulness, and that the president is governing when he is gaffe-ing. (Hiss!)
His team overreacts to his father's failings. Karl Rove, a.k.a. "Boy Genius," in W.'s nickname lexicon, is so assiduous about buttering up the right, which grew disillusioned with Bush pere, that he has alienated swing voters and Republican suburban women on the environment and abortion.
Lee Atwater, the bad-boy strategist for Bush Sr. who was a mentor to Mr. Rove, aimed to keep the right happy, but he never bowed and scraped to "extra-chromosome conservatives," as he and his boss called them.
It is ironic, given how intently they are shaping Bush II to avoid the errors of Bush I, that W.'s weakness in polls at the start is the same one that sunk his dad in the end.
In last week's ABC News/Washington Post poll, 51 percent said the president does not "understand the problems of people like you."
When the father got tarred for being out of touch, it was because of his patrician ways and because he was absorbed in his avocation, international affairs, while this country was hurting economically.
The son has a plain-spoken, colloquial style and homespun tastes. He runs from his gilded cradle, avoiding Yale and refusing to acknowledge Connecticut as his birthplace on a recent trip there. But he is not seen as a populist, either. He, too, is surrounded by wealthy older men. And they have given his economic and environmental policies a strong corporate aroma.
Air Force One is beginning to look like the company plane. (Hiss!) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); RODENTS (56%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (57%); DICK CHENEY (57%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (68%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



834 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Labor Leaders Joining Forces In Opposition To Trade Plan 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
The nation's labor unions are joining with their international counterparts in an escalating campaign to fight President Bush's efforts to create a free trade zone throughout the Western Hemisphere.
 Over the past week, American labor leaders held protest rallies in five cities and met with Latin American union officials to battle the proposed trade zone, saying it would encourage corporations to move operations to areas with the worst wages and working conditions. 
 Calling the proposal "a Nafta clone," the A.F.L.-C.I.O. said it would urge millions of union members nationwide to join a campaign against the trade zone like those labor mounted against the China trade deal and the North American Free Trade Agreement. The labor federation's leaders voiced confidence that, working with environmental groups, they could persuade Congress to deny Mr. Bush the expedited negotiating authority he has said he needs to negotiate a hemispheric free trade agreement. 
Last weekend in Quebec, Mr. Bush and the heads of 33 other countries pledged to set up the Free Trade Area of the Americas, which would eliminate tariffs from the Canadian Arctic to the tip of South America.
"The Free Trade Area of the Americas looks to us as if it is modeled after Nafta," said Thea Lee, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s chief international economist. "We will oppose it vigorously if it continues along the same lines. As far as we can see, there appears to be a total absence of worker rights and environment standards."
Labor leaders from 34 countries in the Western Hemisphere met in Washington this week with John Sweeney, the federation's president, to map plans to fight the new free trade zone. That group, the Inter-American Regional Organization of Workers, issued a statement criticizing the trade zone, saying it would promote "a race to the bottom" in which corporations seek out countries that pay the lowest wages and have the worst working conditions.
Several members of Congress predicted that Mr. Bush would have as hard a time as President Bill Clinton did in gaining fast-track negotiating authority. That authority, which the Bush administration has called "trade promotion authority," makes it easier for presidents to negotiate trade accords because it bars Congress from amending them, allowing it only to vote up or down.
Largely because of labor's opposition, Mr. Clinton repeatedly failed to gain fast-track authority after 1994.
Representative Robert T. Matsui, a California Democrat who has often opposed organized labor on Nafta and fast track, said: "My read is that fast track is going to be extremely difficult to pass. I don't think much has changed since 1994. You still have the fundamental problem of how do you gather 218 votes in the House."
Administration officials said they would work hard to obtain fast-track authority. An official in the United States Trade Representative's Office said: "President Bush has made it clear that trade promotion authority is a priority for the administration. We are working to develop a broad coalition in support."
A big obstacle is that many Republicans from the Northeast and Midwest appear likely to oppose fast track. Predicting that at least two dozen Congressional Republicans would vote against it, Jack Quinn, a Republican from Buffalo who heads a coalition of union-friendly House Republicans, said: "To me, F.T.A.A. is an extension of Nafta, and in my opinion Nafta has been a failure."
Union officials vowed to do their utmost to block fast track and the proposed free trade zone unless President Bush agrees to incorporate strong labor and environmental protections in any trade accord. They said they doubted he would, and predicted that other countries would block such protections even if the President insisted on them.
Specifically, union leaders want the United States to be able to bring trade sanctions if a trading partner does not enforce its labor laws, like a minimum wage, or basic labor rights, like the right to form a union.
"The F.T.A.A., as it is presently drafted, is a disaster," Mr. Sweeney said. "From what we're seeing, it doesn't do anything meaningful on core labor standards and environmental concerns."
Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, said in Quebec that Mr. Bush wanted to try to improve labor standards and environmental conditions. "We're willing to consider a whole host of ways to do so," he said.
Mr. Zoellick has said that if labor rights are included in trade accords, labor violations should be punished with monetary penalties and not with trade sanctions, which he has suggested could be used for protectionist purposes. But labor federation officials argue that protections of labor rights will not have teeth unless countries face trade sanctions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); AFL-CIO (83%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARCTIC (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



835 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Patience in Omaha Pays Off Again 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: OMAHA, April 28 

 BODY:
For a couple of trying years, through his annual meeting here last spring, Warren E. Buffett's long record of finding great values in companies making soft drinks, razor blades and other everyday products failed to keep investors, friends and just about anyone he bumped into from saying that he really ought to get into those marvelous, highflying technology stocks.
 Shares in Berkshire Hathaway, his company, lost about half their value as the Nasdaq index, laden with technology, doubled and redoubled. But he insisted, to nearly everyone's disbelief, that he simply could not figure out how to handicap the high-tech stocks and their even trickier dot.com cousins. 
 But this year, more than 10,000 of Mr. Buffett's shareholders are gathered here to celebrate his vindication, and the vindication of the value investing style he personifies. With the Nasdaq index down about 59 percent from its peak last March, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down 18 percent over the same period, Berkshire Hathaway has risen 12.8 percent since its shareholders met a year ago. 
Mr. Buffett was greeted with a standing ovation as he stepped onto a plain stage at the Civic Auditorium this morning. "People are really excited about him this year," said Diane Guerin, an Omaha writer who has owned Berkshire stock for several years. "Berkshire has held steady," she said, "whereas so many other stocks have tanked. We're grateful for that."
Value investors like Mr. Buffett are the investment world's discount shoppers, looking for reliable companies that are worth more than their stock prices reflect. Growth investors, on the other hand, have an eye for glamour, for companies, often in technology, with the most rapidly rising sales and profits, even if their shares sell at a premium.
"If you're the kind of person who will walk across the street to get a better price on a hotel room, you're probably a value investor," said Robert P. Miles, a Tampa, Fla., businessman who became so enamored of the Buffett style after a few years of owning Berkshire shares that he wrote a book, "101 Reasons to Own the World's Greatest Investment," which has just been published.
As technology stocks rocketed, some leading value investors, like Julian Robertson of Tiger Management, simply gave up on managing large pools of money. Some other major investors, like George Soros, reluctantly joined the technology parade, only to suffer big losses.
But now value is back. "A year ago it was the darkest moment before dawn for value investors," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Tech stocks were at their peak, and it appeared that value managers were headed toward the burial ground. Now it's pretty clear they have been reborn and rectified."
The flow of investors' money demonstrates the trend. In February and March, money streamed out of mutual funds featuring Internet and technology stocks and began flowing into funds that generally follow a value investing philosophy. 
The value investments have been holding their own or even gaining a little. Of the 31 categories of mutual funds tracked by Lipper Inc., all lost money in the first three months of this year except value funds that hold relatively small companies.
Investors here, at the nation's largest shareholder meeting, basked in their good fortune as they were welcomed by Mr. Buffett, as always, to a jazz and wine reception (and sales opportunity) at Berkshire's sprawling Borsheim's jewelry store, and then went for ice cream at a Dairy Queen, another Berkshire company. 
"It's certainly a little more upbeat this year," said Jim Wiles, a retired General Motors executive.
Though such festive scripting, and Mr. Buffett's accomplished folksiness, guarantee a good time, last year the mood was strained. Even some of the loyalists at the meeting tactfully suggested to Mr. Buffett that he might need to update his style. This year, one investor generated a wave of applause by rising to thank Mr. Buffett for resisting the technology sector's lure.
Now some Wall Street wizards caution that the market might already be taking another turn that would sideline the value crowd once again. Jeffrey M. Applegate, the chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, sees evidence that technology and other growth stocks are once again gathering steam, to the detriment of value stocks. 
"When you have a situation in which interest rates are falling and price-earnings multiples are expanding," Mr. Applegate said, referring to the ratio of share price to earnings per share, "growth typically outperforms value. And that's what we've been seeing."
As for Mr. Buffett, whose Berkshire holdings are worth nearly $33 billion, it remains unclear whether he can continue delivering the gains that brought Berkshire Hathaway, which has never split its stock, from $27 a share in 1967 to a peak of more than $80,000 in 1998.
His largest investments, including Coca-Cola and Gillette, have been languishing far below their highs, troubled by poor sales and management shake-ups. And Berkshire's single largest unit, General Re, a leader in selling insurance to insurance companies, has been gushing losses since Mr. Buffett bought it for nearly $22 billion in 1998.
Mr. Buffett is keeping the faith with his insurance holdings, saying that insurance prices are rising, and with his name-brand stocks. But rather than invest in more stocks this year, he said, he is likely to hunt for entire businesses to buy.
Lately, he remarked, referring to a market he still regards as overheated, "the climate has not been friendly toward buying" stocks. "It is just astounding to me," he added, "how willing people are, during a bull market, to throw money around."
Last year, Mr. Buffett bought eight companies that produce enduring, if unexciting, things like bricks, carpets and cowboy boots. He paid $8 billion, 97 percent in cash.
"We remain awash in liquid assets and are both eager and ready for even larger acquisitions," Mr. Buffett wrote in Berkshire's annual report. "The larger the company, the greater will be our interest."
To warm shareholders up before the serious business began, Mr. Buffett presented, as he does each year, an hourlong film spoofing himself and his close friend Charles T. Munger, Berkshire's vice chairman. The film opened with Mr. Buffett strumming a ukelele. At one point, in one of many cameo appearances by famous friends, he was shown caddying for Tiger Woods.
Mr. Buffett kept the quips coming as he and Mr. Munger fielded questions from shareholders in what many financial experts regard as an incomparable seminar in value investing. As the two Berkshire leaders took their seats at a table on the stage, Mr. Buffett joked about their ages; he is 70 and Mr. Munger 77.
"I'm Warren," Mr. Buffett said by way of introduction. "He's Charlie. He can hear. I can see."
In the last year, Berkshire's stock beat the performance of the S.& P. 500 by nearly 16 percentage points. As much as anything, Mr. Buffett's strategy during the recent techno-craze was defensive, with benefits that became clear over the last year. "One of the cornerstones of the value approach," said Robert G. Hagstrom, who runs a Legg Mason value fund and has written several books about Mr. Buffett's investing style, "is a tendency to give back less than the market as a whole when things get bad." 
In more than 30 years of running Berkshire Hathaway, Mr. Buffett has never had a losing year, although he came close in 1999 with a gain of just half of 1 percent.
Jack and Betty Rhodes, a retired couple living in Peoria, Ill., started investing in Berkshire five years ago. Their idea was to treat Berkshire like a value-oriented mutual fund and use it, along with utility stocks, as a counterweight to their technology stocks.
The Rhodeses, who were attending their third annual meeting, said the investment had worked just as they planned. Over all, they say, their portfolio is down 17 percent this year, much less worse than it would have been without the Berkshire investment.
"Compared to the tech stocks," Mrs. Rhodes said, "you'd have to be euphoric about Berkshire."
Many here this weekend expressed a deep sense of relief and gratitude. "Everybody knows he's brought us through a very dangerous time in the markets," said Andrew Kilpatrick, a Birmingham, Ala., stockbroker and Berkshire shareholder who has also written a book on Mr. Buffett. "It took tremendous character to not say, 'O.K., I'll buy some tech to get everybody off my back.' With hindsight, now we can say he was right. He's in better shape than anybody else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren E. Buffett and some of the shareholders gathered in Omaha for the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting ate ice cream at a Dairy Queen on Friday. The restaurant chain is one of Berkshire's many holdings. (Associated Press) Chart: "Tortoise Overtakes Hare"Berkshire Hathaway, the ultimate value stock, fell out of favor in 1999 and early 2000 as investors flocked to highflying technology shares. But the recent economic slowdown, which has hit the technology sector especially hard, has led investors back to Berkshire. Chart tracks Nasdaq and Berkshire Hathaway from 1998 through 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%) SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (52%) NEBRASKA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2001 



836 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Time Magazine in Europe IsNow More European

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 29 

 BODY:
Passengers boarding the Eurostar train to Paris from Waterloo station in London will be hard pressed not to notice a series of splashy billboard advertisements beginning in May that will introduce Time as Europe's newsmagazine.
 That may seem like an unlikely statement for such an American icon. Even though the flagship title of Time Inc., part of AOL Time Warner, has published a European edition since 1973, it is still perceived as an American magazine, said Donald Morrison, who has been co-editor of the European edition of Time since November with his wife, Ann. 
 The Morrisons, both 54 and longtime Time Inc. employees, aim to reposition the magazine by giving it more of a European sensibility and wooing younger readers and women. 
Three-quarters of Time Europe's current readers are men and over 35, something the editors hope to change with more business and technology coverage (a new addition: Start-Up of the Week) and by writing about fashion and design trends.
But by far the most ambitious of these changes is the cultivation of a European perspective. Research showed that readers wanted less about the United States and more about Europe, Mr. Morrison said.
And so a recent cover story on the human genome delved into the genetic differences between the Basques, the Spanish and the French and the similarities between Hungarians and surrounding Slavs, nuances largely lost on non-Europeans.
A profile of the French actor Fabrice Luchini, well-known only in his home country, drew praise from advertisers, who expressed surprise that an American magazine had picked up on such a French icon, according to Wil Merritt, Time Europe's president and publisher.
That is not to say that Time Europe ignores the big Hollywood stars. But when it does write about them, as in an April 2 profile of Penelope Cruz, it takes a decidedly European slant, describing her as an average 26-year-old European "on the move, leaving her homeland to further her career but retaining a strong connection to her Spanish roots."
The profile sits alongside the cover story of that same issue, "Generation Europe," which explores whether economically unified Europeans are developing a common culture.
Mrs. Morrison said the coming together of ideals, replacing postwar political squabbling, made appealing to a European reader possible.
Some of Time Europe's critics, and even a few supporters, question whether the Morrisons can thrive where others have failed, given the magazine's American heritage.
"It's like McDonald's trying to become an authentic French bistro," said Fareed Zakaria, editor of Newsweek International, which, he said, does not apologize for being an American newsmagazine. "We don't try to hide what we are."
Hugues Olivier Bores, chief operating officer of the watchmaker Patek Philippe, one of Time's advertisers, said he identified with the magazine's goal of attracting women and younger readers, something Patek Philippe is trying to accomplish with its own customers, but was less confident about Time's ability to distance itself from its American roots.
"Time has always been noted as giving the U.S. side of the story," said Mr. Bores, who is French. "Can an American magazine be the voice of Europe?"
Initial results show the strategy is making some headway. For the April 2 issue, which was the first with the changes, newsstand sales in Britain, France and Germany increased at least one-third, compared with the prior issue, though it was unclear how much of those gains were driven by a $10 million marketing campaign scheduled to run through September.
Time Inc. has spent liberally to bolster its international editions before. In 1996 it established regional editorial headquarters, tripling expenses for many departments. The Morrisons, fresh from Hong Kong, where Mr. Morrison was editor of Time Asia, and Mrs. Morrison editor of Asiaweek, another Time Inc. publication, are beneficiaries of that decision. "We never got complaints in Asia that Time was too American," Mr. Morrison said.
In Europe, where competition from local television and magazines is stiffer, Time will have to recruit more readers like Tony Evans, 28, a business director for Mindshare, a media-planning agency in London that places some advertisements with Time Europe, who said: "I always thought Time was too American, but now it seems to be written with more of a European viewpoint."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Time's European edition is now aiming for a younger readership. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (60%) MAGAZINES; WOMEN 

COMPANY: TIME INC (93%); AOL INC (72%); PATEK PHILIPPE SA (50%); NEWSWEEK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TIME INC; TIME (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3873 WATCHES, CLOCKS, CLOCKWORK OPERATED DEVICES, & PARTS (50%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: MORRISON, DONALD; MORRISON, ANN; KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%); HUNGARY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



837 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: The Internet Bubble Bursts on the Screen; 
Documentary Shows Brief Life Of a Dot-Com

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Kaleil Isaza Tuzman walks into the office at the end of a very bad day. He is returning from yet another exhausting business trip, trying to save his struggling dot-com, GovWorks. The $60 million he helped raise for the company is burning away as if it were jet fuel, workers have been laid off and he has just dismissed a co-founder of the company, his childhood friend Tom Herman, after a bitter power struggle. Mr. Isaza Tuzman drops his bags, brings his hands together and begins to chant a Hindu prayer. On camera.
 It is one of many compelling scenes from "startup.com," a documentary by Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker -- who together made "The War Room," a documentary on the 1992 presidential campaign -- and a newcomer, Jehane Noujaim. 
 "Startup.com," which will open on May 11, is a text for fast times, a roller-coaster history of one dot-com's boom and bust that is appearing even before the general dot-com bust has played out. And the freshness of the events -- closing titles with updates on the main characters were revised just weeks before the release date -- makes "startup.com" seem less a documentary than an instant replay. 
The filmmakers call it "the rise and fall of the American dream," but the documentary is actually a squirmingly uncomfortable close-up of the Internet market mania of the last few years: a small tale that, under examination, tells a much bigger story.
It is only natural that the Internet bubble should burst on screen, since the roaring 90's turned business into entertainment.
As the stock market soared and millions of Americans became portfolio managers, the nation's televisions were tuned to CNBC and Internet executives became stars. 
It is not the first time that filmmakers have looked to the boardroom; some classic movies, including "Citizen Kane," are set in the world of business. The heyday was the 1950's, when Hollywood's biggest names made movies about making money. William Holden starred in "Executive Suite," Gregory Peck was "The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit" and Alec Guinness was "The Man in the White Suit." Directors have since returned to business but rarely with the attention to the details that made the earlier films so memorable. 
In the 1990's, however, the business of America seemed once again to be business. At times the lines blurred, as when the recently departed punk rock icon Joey Ramone wrote an ode to the CNBC financial reporter Maria Bartiromo. Even the TV idol William Shatner crooned for Priceline, sending up the ill-advised spoken-word rock album of his younger days. But when the good times soured, the Internet businesses looked more and more like reality TV, with precious few survivors and plenty of weakest links.
And that could be why the new film is such a vivid document of the times -- and why a documentary, rather than a fictional film, might have been the best way to capture their hypercaffeinated spirit.
The original vision of the GovWorks founders was not particularly grand: to improve the way people pay parking tickets. But in time, the company saw itself transforming citizens' relationship with government, improving services and making government accountable 24 hours a day. They also hoped to tap into a market of some $4 trillion in annual government fees.
The documentary was conceived in 1998 when Ms. Noujaim realized that her roommate, Mr. Isaza Tuzman, was leaving a lucrative, secure job at Goldman, Sachs for the promise of dot-com zillions. She had been planning to quit her own job as a producer at MTV to start a film in Egypt but realized she had an amazing story in the messy bedroom down the hall.
She took a camera that she had bought with grant money from Harvard, her alma mater, and began following Mr. Isaza Tuzman around as he cleaned out his desk at Goldman and began assembling the skeleton staff of the company that eventually became GovWorks. 
Shortly after Ms. Noujaim began filming Mr. Isaza Tuzman, mutual friends introduced her to Chris Hegedus, who was also hoping to make a documentary about a start-up company.
Ms. Hegedus said that she saw the entrepreneurs as rebels, "kind of right out of the 60's, where I came from."
Mr. Isaza Tuzman's story, she said, captivated her because "he had left this very structured corporate world, and it felt like a revolution."
When she began looking into Internet companies, "I wasn't exactly sure where Silicon Alley was," Ms. Hegedus said, but she was surprised to find that it resembled the downtown loft scene she of the early 1970's, when artists and rock stars lived in many of the same neighborhoods.
The dot-commers, she said, "were almost like the rock stars of the new age."
The women decided to collaborate. Each filmmaker saw a benefit in the partnership: Ms. Hegedus would be in at the very beginning of a promising company with almost total access to meetings and top executives at all hours. Ms. Noujaim would gain the experience of working with one of the best-known documentary teams in the world, Ms. Hegedus and Mr. Pennebaker.
"I felt incredibly lucky," Ms. Noujaim said. She recalled thinking, "This film is going to be seen if Chris and Penne get involved." 
With Mr. Pennebaker as producer, Ms. Hegedus and Ms. Noujaim shot some 400 hours of film over more than a year of 18-hour days, in meeting rooms, gyms, cars, elevators and bathrooms, even following Mr. Isaza Tuzman to the White House, where he participated in a conference on the New Economy. 
Ms. Hegedus joked to Ms. Noujaim, "You're doing Proust here."
But Ms. Noujaim responded, "No, I just don't know when to put the camera down." After all, they said, no one knew how the story would end.
It does not give away too much of the story to say that things do not end well. The exhilaration of the building phase gives way to the raw exhaustion of the breakdown -- and the ugly break between Mr. Isasa Tuzman and Mr. Herman, which ends, like so many conflicts today, in a slurry of letters, lawyers, cell phones and bile. 
The subjects, Mr. Isaza Tuzman and Mr. Herman, say they admire the film and the dedication of the filmmakers. Mr. Herman, 30, said it was "an honor" to receive this form of celluloid immortality. But he also complains that the movie minimizes his leadership role in the company and the technological hurdles his team successfully overcame; the software they developed at GovWorks was acquired by a another company and is still in use in cities like Boston, Memphis and New York. 
Mr. Isaza Tuzman, 29, said he was mortified to see that the filmmakers included scenes showing the toll that his round-the-clock work schedule took on his relationships with one girlfriend and then a second. "It's just excruciating to watch," he said.
Ms. Hegedus had her own observation. "When people do this, they really give us their lives; we're eternally grateful to them," she said. "If they see you're involved, and they see you take them seriously and respect them, they'll let you into their lives."
Both Mr. Herman and Mr. Isaza Tuzman, however, said that "startup.com" had sacrificed realism in the interest of telling a good story. "They focused in on conflict, which makes good drama," Mr. Herman said. 
As evidence of their continuing friendship, they point to a fact that seems incredible to anyone who has seen the film: Mr. Isaza Tuzman and Mr. Herman are back in business again, together. 
After going through the wrenching experience of seeing the assets of his company sold off, Mr. Isaza Tuzman realized that the residual value to be found in dying dot-coms is often lost because most bankruptcy experts do not really understand the nature of the businesses involved. In other words, he saw another market. So he called Mr. Herman out of retirement, and they teamed up once again to form the Recognition Group. 
The company helps its clients, which include the failing companies' financial backers, work through the legal and emotional maze of bankruptcy and near-bankruptcy. This time, they hope to change the way Americans fail. 
"Pain is the greatest teacher," Mr. Isaza Tuzman said. "It may sound schmaltzy, but I have a strong spiritual center. I felt that there's a reason for everything, including missteps."
The men said they had learned from their mistakes and that their new company had achievable goals and defined milestones -- and, not surprisingly, a tight focus on quickly making a profit. "If there's not a revenue-generating outcome for something you're working on, you're wasting your time," Mr. Herman said. 
Mr. Isaza Tuzman, displaying the forcefulness that led venture capitalists to give millions to his young team at GovWorks, said he hoped that others would similarly learn specific lessons of the dot-com boom and bust and not just dismiss it as some kind of mass hallucination.
"If people let this pendulum swing too far in the other direction and all of these extraordinary, visionary and gutsy people go back to exactly what they were doing before and are disillusioned with entrepreneurship," he said, "that's an enormous loss to the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scenes like the one above show Tom Herman struggling with conflicts that could endanger his company.; A newcomer, Jehane Noujaim, left, worked with Chris Hegedus to make "startup.com," produced by D. A. Pennebaker. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. C4); A documentary, "startup.com," focuses on Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, above, and his dot-com company's boom-to-bust story. Mr. Isaza Tuzman, near right, attends a finance meeting with his partner, Tom Herman, far left.; In a new film, the exhilaration of GovWorks's rapid growth gives way to the raw exhaustion of its breakdown and the toll it takes on Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. (pg. C1) Chart: "GovWorks: A Timeline"LATE 1998Founded in New York as Public Data Systems by Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Tom Herman, Chieh Cheung and George Fatheree. MAY 1999Now named GovWorks, raises $705,000 from private investors for business plan of helping citizens connect with government agencies online to pay parking tickets, taxes and conduct other civic business. SUMMER 1999Hires Sapient to help build Internet portal and set up payment processing software. OCTOBER 1999Completes second round of financing, $19.3 million, led by Mayfield Fund and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Staff now exceeds 50 people. WINTER 1999-2000Company expands, moving to four leased floors at 81 Franklin Street, Manhattan, and opening branch offices in Silicon Valley, Springfield, Mass., and Washington. Staff totals 250, as company raises $39.4 million in third round of financing. APRIL 2000Under pressure from investors to cut costs, lays off 60 employees. AUGUST 2000First live system: New York City's parking ticket payment processing. In next few months, customers include State of Massachusetts and local governments in Boston; Providence, R.I.; Greenville, S.C.; and New Orleans. NOVEMBER 2000Lead investor in a new round of financing, J&W Seligman, withdraws term sheet, preventing other investors from completing the deal. Board tells management to look for additional funds or seek a buyer. Linda Morse is promoted to chief executive, replacing Mr. Isaza Tuzman. JANUARY 2001With staff down to 60 and all marketing activities suspended, company -- unable to find a buyer -- files for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The company's GovPay payment processing system is bought by eOne Global LP and American Management Systems Inc. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (68%); EQUITY FINANCING (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%); JET FUEL (57%) MOTION PICTURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: GOVWORKS.COM 

PERSON: MARIA BARTIROMO (50%) SCHWARTZ, JOHN; HEGEDUS, CHRIS; PENNEBAKER, D A; NOUJAIM, JEHANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (74%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: STARTUP.COM (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



838 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ONLINE; 
Guggenheim's Latest Branch Is to Open In Cyberspace

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW MIRAPAUL 

 BODY:
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, which has been aggressively expanding its global network of museums, is planning to open a typically ambitious outpost on a new frontier: cyberspace.
 In an attempt to combine art and e-commerce, the Guggenheim is planning to open a Web site this fall that will offer a range of cultural content and services -- some of it free -- in a visually exciting environment that is said to go well beyond most conventional museum sites. To be called Guggenheim.com, the site will also provide access to resources at other institutions, including the State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. 
 Museum Web sites have become increasingly sophisticated as their owners have recognized the value of the Internet as both a marketing medium and a virtual gallery. Still, with its far-reaching multidisciplinary approach, Guggenheim.com has the potential -- potential being the operative word in an environment known for failed efforts and broken alliances -- to become the first online theme park for the arts, albeit a playland with classier rides than most. Here, Cubist paintings could become the visual equivalents of the tilt-a-whirl.
Although it is clear that the relentlessly ambitious Guggenheim intends to establish its brand on the Internet with this online arts center, the site's full scope has not been revealed. Guggenheim.com officials declined to comment until the project is formally announced in several weeks, and a foundation spokesman said that Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director, was traveling and unavailable for comment. But details emerged in interviews with people who have seen the project and spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Plans for the site, scheduled to open in September, include high-quality digital reproductions of paintings, sculptures and other works from the Guggenheim museums in Manhattan, Venice, Berlin and Bilbao, Spain, as well as from partner institutions. In addition to the Hermitage, these include the Kunsthistorisches and Albertina museums in Vienna (the latter has a vast trove of drawings) and the Center for Art and Media Technology in Karlsruhe, Germany.
The Guggenheim site may also screen videos, exhibit other examples of new-media art and present concerts and performances. According to the museum's current plan, the online works will be supplemented by artists' biographies, scholarly commentary and educational information. All this is "for the serious researcher as well as the Sunday museumgoer," said one person who had seen a working version of the site.
Perhaps because the Guggenheim is so actively pursuing the concept of art as entertainment, it is pushing to make sure that the site has a dynamic appearance. Those who have seen it describe it as "flashy," "captivating" and "unlike anything else out there." One viewer said, "It has the feeling of a well-produced CD-ROM rather than a database."
There are certainly plans for commerce in Guggenheim.com, including a gift shop and the sale of educational materials. A travel-planning service is expected to provide revenue by offering cultural-tourism packages that might whisk art lovers from, say, Bilbao to Karlsruhe to St. Petersburg.
Additional funds are to come from sponsors, whose logos may appear in a corner of the computer screen in discreet acknowledgments similar to those used on public television.
The for-profit Guggenheim.com is to be separate from the Guggenheim Foundation, which is to maintain its tax-exempt, nonprofit status. Mr. Krens will be the site's chief executive, and Judith Cox, the Guggenheim's former deputy director and general counsel, will be chief operating officer. Hani Rashid, a partner in Asymptote Architecture, a New York firm, will be the chief creative officer. The site is to have a staff of 50 employees operating out of a Lower Manhattan office.
Like many e-commerce start-ups, Guggenheim.com is receiving some funds from venture capital concerns, including Softbank Venture Capital, Pequot Private Equity and G.E. Capital. Most of this money was secured before the e-commerce landscape changed from a sunny Monet to a desolate Hopper.
"Because they're so well-financed, they're in a position to do a good job, if they're capable of doing a good job," said one person who had seen a Guggenheim.com presentation. "It's not money that's going to stop them."
An obvious obstacle is the slow pace of museum bureaucracies. The Guggenheim already has a conventional Web site at guggenheim.org, and for years officials have promised to open the Guggenheim Virtual Museum, an online art showcase that may have planted the seeds for Guggenheim.com. Designed by Asymptote and meant to be as architecturally distinctive as the museum's Frank Lloyd Wright building on Fifth Avenue, the Guggenheim Virtual Museum has been finished for some time, but its premiere has been repeatedly postponed. 
The economic downturn may also pose problems for Guggenheim.com. Few businesses in any industry have succeeded online. And although cultural institutions are well stocked with valuable content that should attract upscale customers, their task is no easier. The extent of the challenge could be seen in last week's announcement by the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan that it was rethinking its approach to the Internet now that the Tate Gallery in London had withdrawn from an e-commerce partnership. Some elements of the Modern's strategy are similar to those of Guggenheim.com.
Other culture-world players in e-commerce ventures have yet to flourish. Fathom.com, a distance-learning partnership among libraries and universities, spearheaded by Columbia, does not expect to turn a profit for two years, although a spokesman said its financial performance was in line with expectations. MuseumNetwork.com, an online entry point to a number of museums worldwide, suspended its consumer-sales business last year after just a few months and has scaled back its other activities.
"These things are much harder to do than people imagine," said David Bearman, president of Archives and Museum Informatics, a cultural-technology consulting company in Pittsburgh. "The problems that people are having as they try to create content from the digital assets of museums, special collections and libraries are evidence that this is an extremely difficult market to enter into successfully."
Mr. Bearman also cautioned that if museums start to resemble commercial entities too much, they may endanger their nonprofit status and their donor and government support.
"By trying to make a little bit of money out there in the market, museums are risking their fundamental standing within the society, which is much more important to them than a little bit of money today," he said.
The Guggenheim, which drew nearly 2.5 million visitors to its far-flung museums last year, is developing plans for additional sites in Las Vegas, Brazil and Lower Manhattan. Cyberspace provides limitless opportunities for expansion. But will museums find room to succeed there?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The plans for the Guggenheim's new Web site include making it as complex and dynamic as the museum's Manhattan interior, above. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, FOUNDATION; GUGGENHEIM.COM; HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG) 

PERSON: MIRAPAUL, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (77%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) GERMANY (77%); SPAIN (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); AUSTRIA (70%); UNITED STATES (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



839 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: With Little Time Left, Hollywood Lives ItsOwn Cliff-Hanger 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 29 

 BODY:
Mayor Richard J. Riordan could not have cast a better ensemble.
 At Lucy's El Adobe restaurant on Melrose Avenue last Thursday, several small-business owners gathered with the mayor -- including an auto repairman, a camera equipment rental administrator and a custom furniture repairman -- to express their concerns about the possible strikes of both the Writers Guild of America and the Screen Actors Guild. 
 Their message was on point: walk out, and we will be forced to lay off workers or, worse, shut our doors. "We've been able to absorb the high energy costs, but I don't know if we cannot lay off people if they strike," said Patricia Casado, the restaurant's owner. 
Pete Toumayan, owner of Studio Four Cleaners, said, "I'd like to see this get resolved so we can get on with what we do."
While some of the industry's top paid actors are renting villas in Italy or the Cote D'Azur for the summer, the likes of Ms. Casado and Mr. Toumayan cannot.
Small, often privately owned businesses run the engine that is Hollywood. Nearly 80 percent of the companies associated with movie and television production have less than four employees, according to the Entertainment Industry Development Corporation. And those smaller concerns are most likely to feel the pain if or when actors and writers walk out.
But just how much pain is a matter of debate. To hear Mayor Riordan tell it, a long-term strike would "plunge our city and county into a recession." The damage? As much as $6.9 billion, a recent study he commissioned said.
The Entertainment Industry Development Corporation, which represents the entertainment industry here, calculates a loss of $50 million a day, including lost work in set design, post-production work, hair and wardrobe. Most of those temporary job losses would be on the west side of Los Angeles County, including Burbank, Santa Monica and Culver City, among others.
But other economists, who have studied not only the city, but the state and nation as a whole, say Los Angeles is faced with other challenges that would be far more challenging to the local economy. More important, the national economy is headed for a recession, said Tom K. Lieser, an economist at UCLA Anderson Forecast, which has accurately predicted other recessions. "The strike is not much more than a short-term concern," he said. "Not to belittle it, but we will have other situations that cause damage."
Industry observers say the number of movie and television production jobs that continue to leave the United States is a more pressing issue. After the last strike in 1988, production began crossing borders. That is, movie crews and production staffs began setting up shop in countries like Canada, which resembles the United States in look and culture but in which it is cheaper to work.
According to the Entertainment Industry Development Corporation, more than 55,200 Canadian jobs are forecast for filmed entertainment in the 2001-2002 season, up from 16,356 in 1992-1993. To add to that, Canadian crews have captured nearly half of all low-budget movies for television and cable that have been made over the last three years, the corporation said.
And technology is only beginning to change the way movies are made. Companies from Santa Monica to San Francisco are popping up to help filmmakers move to a new digital universe. And many of those jobs, said Joel Kotkin, a senior fellow at the Davenport Institute for Public Policy at Pepperdine University, are not unionized. "The real story is there are structural changes facing the industry," he said. "It is going to become easier to run something like digital effects from a house in the Berkshires than to build a sound stage and do it the old way."
That is not to say that entertainment will not always be a cornerstone of the Los Angeles economy. In the last decade, two of the county's largest industries have all but disappeared: financial services and aerospace. After the cold war ended, military contractors changed themselves into technology and media concerns. The Hughes Corporation, the former military contractor, is the perfect example. Its biggest success now is DirecTV.
The savings and loan debacle, as well as a later merger wave among banks, hastened the end of many of the city's largest institutions, including First Interstate and the Security Pacific Bank.
As such, movie and television production has moved up from a ranking of No. 8 in the number of jobs created in 1993 to No. 5 today, according to the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. Only business services, health services, international trade and tourism rank above it.
But the nature of the way movie studios are run will also change with consolidation, Mr. Kotkin said. The industry is continuing to contract. America Online has merged with Time Warner, the parent of Warner Brothers, and Vivendi, the telecommunications concern, has acquired Universal.
Within those conglomerates though, the movie and television properties are only a small part. And as the parent companies squeeze profits to satisfy shareholders who crave higher earnings, some of the first things to go could be the limousines, flowers and gifts movie studio executives and actors have come to expect.
Already the entertainment industry has announced layoffs, some here. The Walt Disney Company said earlier this month that it hoped to cut 4,000 jobs by July, or about 3 percent of its work force worldwide, in part because of the softening economy and a need to appease investors. 
Still, no one knows exactly what impact the writers' or actors' strikes would have because the negotiations have not ended (tomorrow is the deadline for writers, July 1 for the actors) and there is a growing belief that the two groups will resolve their differences. Several people are skeptical that a strike will happen at all or, if it does, will be short-lived.
"I believe there will not be strike because no one can afford it," said Wolfgang Puck, owner of Spago in Beverly Hills, where many Hollywood executives craft deals over lunch. "There is too much at stake."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Michelson of Michelson Food Services warns of the effects of a strike at a recent news conference with Mayor Richard Riordan of Los Angeles. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (87%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (66%) MOTION PICTURES; LABOR; STRIKES; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (83%) WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA; SCREEN ACTORS GUILD 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF); LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



840 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Deal Between Bertelsmann And EMI Is Seen in Peril
Because of regulatory uncertainty, EMI Group and Bertelsmann are close to calling off their merger negotiations, people involved in the talks said.
 The companies' executives discussed options over the weekend, and a decision about whether to proceed is expected as early as this week, these people said. Page C2. 

A Reality Show With Product Plugs
A reality television show called "The Runner," coming from ABC in September, will make extensive use of paid sponsors, whose products will be integral to the story line. It is the most ambitious use yet of advertising within the content of entertainment programming. A1.

Denise Rich Courts the Media
Instead of keeping a low profile, Denise Rich is scheduled to cap a spate of media appearances tonight on CNN's "Larry King Live" with an interview taped last week in which she denies any wrongdoing in connection with the pardon of her ex-husband, Marc Rich. Last Friday, ABC broadcast an edition of "20/20" in which Barbara Walters interviewed Ms. Rich, who made the same denials. And last week, Vanity Fair released advance copies of an article that reports on Mr. Rich's past and in which Ms. Rich discusses her relationship with her ex-husband. C10.

Another Wireless Standard Planned
Atheros Communications, a Silicon Valley start-up, plans to announce today its first partners to help roll out a new wireless data standard that Atheros hopes will attract laptop users and office networkers. The problem is that mobile computer users are facing a thicket of wireless data standards. C2.

Radio Groups End Web Broadcasts
Several radio groups have disconnected their Internet broadcasts because of concerns about a contract with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists stipulating that performers in radio commercials be paid additional fees when those commercials are broadcast on the Internet. C2.

A Liberal Voice for Texas
For nearly five decades, The Texas Observer has been the full-throated voice of the dwindling left in the state, a journal of liberal opinion and investigative journalism that has railed against the state's conservative political culture while uncovering stories often missed by the mainstream media. C10.

Digital Progress, Behind the Scenes
The consensus at the convention of the National Association of Broadcasters was that the transition to digital broadcasting would go far slower than the government had expected. But that does not mean digital technology isn't roaring through the video entertainment business. It is -- not in the form of snazzy services, but in the service of efficiency and cost savings. New Economy. C4.

Time Revamping European Edition
Time magazine is seeking to reposition its European edition by giving it more of a European sensibility while also making an effort to attract younger readers and women. C10.

Add Diet Sites to Content That Sells
Online diet sites seem poised to garner an increasing share of the $40 billion that is spent each year on weight reduction programs and products. The diet Web sites help to illuminate the factors that determine if consumers will spend money for content on the Internet. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,810.05 up 230.20Nasdaq composite -- 2,075.68 down 87.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.32% up 0.03The euro -- $0.8910 down 0.0116The dollar -- 124.01 yen up 1.45 Graph: "TODAY" shows Personal Income figures from September through February. March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Expected: +0.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (87%); MERGERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); RADIO ADVERTISING (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); STARTUPS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (66%); NEW ECONOMY (65%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (58%); QUALCOMM ATHEROS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%)

PERSON: BARBARA WALTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



841 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Big Hopes Are Still on the Table As theWriters' Deadline Nears 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 29 

 BODY:
The root of the discontent driving the Writers Guild of America in its current round of negotiations, which threaten to put Hollywood's 11,000 writers on strike as early as Wednesday, lies in the 1999 guild election. The current leadership came to power amid promises to play hardball with the media conglomerates that many writers feel have been taking advantage of them for decades.
 But now, as the talks move into what may be their final hours, there is increasing political and public pressure on union officials to come to terms. 
 The pace of the closed-door negotiations is expected to pick up as the deadline of 12:01 a.m. Wednesday approaches, culminating in a midnight vigil on Tuesday at the guild's offices near Hollywood, unless an agreement is reached earlier. The guild's top negotiators are led by John Wells, president of the Writers Guild/West, and include John McLean, executive director of the guild's western branch, Daniel Petrie Jr., the branch's vice president, Michael Mahern, its secretary-treasurer, and Herb Sargent, president of the union's New York-based eastern branch. 
Like their counterparts in the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers, which represents the major film studios and television networks, the union negotiators represent a diverse group with many common goals, but do not all share the same objectives. In the guild's case, the breakdown comes between those who write for television and those who write for films.
"In a certain sense, as far as goals are concerned, there definitely is a double guild, one for TV writers and one for film writers," said Brian Helgeland, a film director and Oscar-winning screenwriter. "Almost everyone who writes for films is making above the guild minimums, but many more television writers are earning right at the minimum. So the basic minimum is much more important to them. At the same time, the creative issues about status and respect are more important to movie writers."
It is difficult to get a specific breakdown of how the guild's 11,000 members split between television and films, partly because the union's membership is always in flux and because some of its members work in both realms. But union officials said their rule-of-thumb is that, generally, television writers outnumber movie writers two to one. Outside the guild, others put the ratio higher, basing their assessments on the number of films produced in a given year versus the number of television programs. 
But even if the most conservative estimate is correct, it still means that of the 11,000 guild members who will be eligible to vote on an agreement, only a little over 3,500 are film writers. 
"Everybody keeps forgetting, this is all about television," said one studio executive. "When you look at those 11,000 guild members, or better yet the 6,000 of them that are really making a living as writers, you find that the great majority are working for television. That's just the reality of the situation. If there's a strike, it has to be a television strike."
And certain issues are simply more important to television writers -- issues like increases in the contract's basic minimums, increases in residuals on foreign sales and cable television, and the disparity in residuals paid on the major networks and the lesser amounts paid by the Fox Television Network.
Other issues, most notably the so-called creative rights issues over the status of writers in movie projects and the overuse of the "film by" credit for directors, are of vast importance to writers of movies and long-form television, but mean less to writers of episodic television.
"A pal of mine is on the negotiating committee, and I hear it's going well," said Richard LaGravenese, another veteran screenwriter. "I mean, I hear it's a little insane, but everyone seems to be pretty optimistic. I know that, at the moment, the major issues are television issues and the new technology that's coming in. What unites all of us a great deal is the new technology and where it's going."
Indeed, the issue of the how writers should be compensated for their work on the Internet -- whether it's the reuse of a film or television program or something written directly for the Internet -- has emerged as a particularly contentious one in the talks, representatives from both sides have said.
The companies have argued that since no one is making any money by putting entertainment on the Internet, it is pointless to come up with a money formula for how writers would be compensated. Writers' representatives, stung by what they feel were bad deals made in the past at the emergence of new technologies like cable television and videocassettes, want to get some sort of formula in place now, anticipating the day that someone figures out how to make money at it.
At the very least, several writers said, the companies should agree to use the same residual formula for the Internet that is used in residuals for pay-television. "Not to do that just seems kind of ridiculous," Mr. LaGravenese said. "If they put content on the Internet, then people need to be compensated for it."
When Mr. Wells -- himself a wealthy and successful writer-producer on such television blockbusters as "ER" and "The West Wing" -- was elected guild president in 1999, it was on the heels of a humiliating defeat for union officials. In July 1998, the guild's membership defeated a referendum on the union's strategic goals, leading to the departure, shortly later, of Brian Walton, who had been the branch's executive director for 13 years. 
So when Mr. Wells ran to replace Mr. Petrie as president -- with the support of Mr. Petrie, who ran instead for vice president -- it was on a vigorous platform that promised to push the companies hard in this year's talks.
"We have been going through a period of relative labor peace," Mr. Wells said during the campaign. "That time is coming to an end."
His administration, he said, would push for major improvements in television and film residuals and on creative rights issues centered on respect for writers of films and long-form television and a diminishment of the "film by" credit. 
"All of these issues must be addressed in this next negotiating cycle," Mr. Wells said. "If it can be done across the table in an atmosphere of respect for the writer as author and as the central creative force in the filmmaking process, so much the better. But if it cannot, we will be on strike."
And so now, as the days dwindle to hours, the question becomes whether the companies' final offer -- which most expect them to place on the table two or so days before the deadline -- will contain enough to allow Mr. Wells to go back to the members and say that the union has, indeed, done what it promised in the last election.
Many feel that the increased talk about the poor state of the economy is intended both to place more pressure on the guild and to give Mr. Wells and the others a face-saving way of going back to members with a package that may not be as large as the union's aggressive rhetoric had led some to expect. 
One official with knowledge of the talks said the companies would soon present their final offer, and the union would either accept it or make a counterproposal. If the gap between the two positions is narrow enough, the talks will likely continue for a few days past Tuesday. But if it is not, the writers will strike.
The Writers Guild has a long, cherished history of activism, tracing back to its fractious coming-of-age during the Great Depression. The 13 years since the last guild strike, which lasted five months, is among the longest strike-free periods in the union's history as a collective bargaining entity.
"I think John Wells is in a very tough position at the moment," said Dan Angel, a television writer. "He's doing the best he can do and, unfortunately, we don't know what's really going on. I think the membership would take some modest gains. I think people would be okay with that. But to have no gains, then I think we have to strike."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%) MOTION PICTURES; LABOR; STRIKES; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WRITERS GUILD OF AMERICA; ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS 

PERSON: JAMES M WELLS III (52%) LYMAN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



842 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: A Wider War on AIDS in Africa and Asia 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 27 

 BODY:
Having won big price cuts for AIDS drugs sold in poor countries, groups in the fight against the epidemic are now pressing for a far broader line of attack, costing billions of dollars at a time when traditional sources of financial aid have been shrinking.
 From the United Nations and wealthy governments to public health groups and foundation researchers, the groundwork is being laid for an broad campaign against the epidemic in Africa and Asia. An estimated 36 million people are infected with H.I.V. worldwide, 70 percent of them in Africa, and now experts are looking beyond treatment drugs. 
 The emerging issues encompass more effective education and prevention programs, better clinics, larger numbers of trained health-care workers and imaginative development projects to put AIDS-devastated societies back on their feet.
"Cheaper anti-retroviral drugs, however vital, will not by themselves provide the answer," Secretary General Kofi Annan said, summing up the new campaign. "Without proper health care, they may even do more harm than good." 
AIDS experts in Africa and around the world insist that the epidemic's spread can be contained at the same time that treatment is made more accessible for those now infected. Senegal and Uganda have demonstrated this, with limited money but a decisive political commitment. They have brought the topic out into the open, reducing the stigma, and have encouraged many interests to get involved, from schools to clinics. 
But in total, the costs are in the billions of dollars -- some projections range as high as $15 billion annually for a decade or more -- so advocates are stressing what they see as a need for creative solutions.
Ideas from universities, research organizations, foundations, Congress and American business leaders all spring from an underlying assumption that the epidemic goes beyond the possibilities of traditional foreign aid. That source has been declining, particularly in the United States. Large international organizations, including the United Nations and the World Bank, do not have money of their own to spend on the necessary scale either.
Instead, governments, in rich and poor countries alike, are being asked to consider a blend of public and private initiatives, with tax relief, larger subsidies and other economic incentives for corporations, and not just the drug companies.
On Monday, Secretary General Annan will take his appeal to a meeting in Philadelphia of representatives of 1,800 private foundations with assets totaling more than $300 billion. Several foundations have already been among the largest contributors to programs to fight AIDS in Africa. Unaids in Geneva said foundations gave $160 million to the cause last year.
And in Istanbul next week, a meeting of international experts will struggle over how to close a widening gap between contraceptive supply and demand at a time when doctors are trying to stanch the infection of ever younger, more vulnerable people -- many now girls in their teens.
While experts welcome the lower prices on the anti-retroviral drugs to prolong the lives of people with H.I.V., they note that in the poorest countries even the reduced cost is still too high for most people.
Moreover these drugs -- unlike condoms -- do not stop the spread of the disease. A special General Assembly session on AIDS is planned for June, the first ever held to deal with a disease, and experts agree that it must conclude with concrete results on how to raise money.
In a speech last Thursday in Nigeria, Mr. Annan proposed the creation of a global fund dedicated to fighting AIDS and other infectious diseases. "The war on AIDS will not be won without a war chest, a size far beyond what is available so far," he said. His estimate is that $7 billion to $10 billion will be required each year.
Quickly after that speech, the Group of 7 industrial nations, meeting in Washington, began to discuss a much bigger program to fight AIDS and other infectious diseases. James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, said $3 billion to $4 billion is needed annually for a reliable program for AIDS prevention and treatment in Africa. But the United States warned that spending had to be tailored to local conditions to succeed. 
Officials at Unaids say that the agency, the first at the United Nations created for a single disease, is just approaching the $1 billion mark in annual commitments now. That includes money from governments -- including some of the poorest African governments, which are turning over money from debt relief -- as well as regional development banks and private organizations. About $500 million in loans from various sources is being made available to Africa over five years.
In his speech in Nigeria, Mr. Annan listed his priority targets: prevention, a reduction in mother-to-child transmission, wider access to drugs and treatment, scientific advances and the care of orphans.
His list reflects the thinking of Dr. Peter Piot, the head of Unaids, and of other leading researchers. They say there is an imperative to stop the rapid spread of the disease.
"AIDS is no longer only a disease of the individual; it is a societal malignancy," wrote Eric A. Friedman of the Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale Law School and Paul Z. Zeitz of the Global AIDS Alliance in a paper last month. The Global AIDS Alliance is a group formed this year to advocate broader support for programs to fight the disease on many fronts. 
"An expanded concept of prevention is required, one that includes food security, efforts to empower women, and other ways of addressing societal problems," Mr. Friedman and Mr. Zeitz wrote. They put the cost of dealing with the wider devastation of AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa at $15 billion annually.
Several Harvard faculty members, led by the development economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, recently published a paper that takes issue with the broad-brush approach. They dismiss fears that advanced medications with a "cocktail" of drugs are unrealistic in Africa, where some experts fear the emergence of drug-resistant strains of AIDS if medications are not administered properly. 
"Falling prices of anti-retroviral drugs have dramatically altered the economics of H.I.V. treatment," they wrote, "and obstacles to treatment such as poor infrastructure can be overcome."
They cite the success of Harvard's work in Haiti and conclude that the total cost of an effective anti-retroviral treatment program for about a million patients in Africa would cost $1.1 billion a year, including clinical and research expenses, and say that foreign aid would have to pay for essentially all those costs.
Gro Harlem Brundtland, the director general of the World Heath Organization, says the best hope for raising money generally lies in collaborative work by governments, nongovernment organizations and the private sector worldwide.
She said that governments in affected countries should play a leading role in deciding how money is to be used, but that they also should expect the level of support to be linked to achievements on the ground.
Maurice Tempelsman, chairman of the Harvard AIDS Institute and head of a family company with interests in Africa, said in an interview that "the important thing is to mobilize the different parties that can make contributions.
"But each of them lives in a different universe," he added. "If you want the private companies to do more, you want to provide them with incentives."
The World Health Organization estimates that no country can offer basic health care without spending at least $60 a person a year. Dr. Brundtland said that in Malawi, a country devastated by AIDS, the government was just forced to lower its spending from $1.25 per person to 75 cents.
Adrienne Germain, president of the International Women's Health Coalition in New York, said there were three special priority areas where more money was needed to help women in poor countries, now the fastest-growing H.I.V.-positive population. 
"First is increased investment in microbicides," she said. Vaginal microbicides, just beginning to be tested, could protect women from a range of sexually transmitted diseases, she said. They are more likely to be ready for production before vaccines. 
In Congress, Rep. Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, has enlisted 21 co-sponsors for a bill that would grant tax credits to drug companies willing to produce microbicides -- not considered big money-earners -- for mass marketing. 
"Second is the further subsidizing and wider distribution of the female condom," Ms. Germain said. "Wherever it's been introduced in Asia and Africa, it has very wide acceptability.
"Third, and in some ways most important, is investment in programs to reach adolescents from 10 to 19," she said, "not just with sexuality education and health services, but also to ensure there is hope in their lives." So much risky sex, she said, is linked to hopelessness and poverty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); ANTIVIRALS (91%); EPIDEMICS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHARITIES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TAX LAW (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) AFRICA (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); SENEGAL (79%); UGANDA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%) AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



843 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Listen Closely: From Tiny Hum Came Big Bang 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
Two detectors in Antarctica have discovered minute patterns in a glow from primordial gases, possible traces of the cosmic match that ignited the Big Bang and led to the creation of the universe 14 billion years ago, astronomers announced here today.
 The patterns, astronomers said, were probably created by microscopic processes -- energy fluctuations at the quantum scale -- that were at work when the universe was a tiny fraction of a second old and smaller than a human fist. 
 The new observations do not see the quantum fluctuations directly, but instead have found traces of colossal waves, much like sound waves, that the fluctuations probably set in motion, roiling the young universe. 
The results rest on the most detailed observations ever made of a glow from the hot gases of the early universe. That glow, called cosmic microwave background radiation, carried an imprint of those waves to the detectors on Earth. 
The news comes as a relief for astronomers, some of whom started to worry last year that their basic picture of the origins of the universe might be flawed, after detailed observations failed to find the wave patterns.
"We see the structure of the universe in its infancy," said Dr. John Carlstrom, a University of Chicago astrophysicist who leads the team operating the Degree Angular Scale Interferometer, or DASI (pronounced daisy), a microwave detector at a South Pole research station operated by the National Science Foundation.
Dr. Michael Turner, a cosmologist at the University of Chicago who was not involved in the measurements, said that the precise time the fluctuations took place remained to be determined by future measurements, but that the process was likely to have taken place in a fraction of a second comparable to a decimal point followed by 32 zeros and a 1.
"We are living in the most exciting time ever in cosmology," he added.
Besides DASI, which also involved astronomers at the California Institute of Technology, the announcement today included the so-called Boomerang team. This group flew a balloon-borne detector around Antarctica, and includes astronomers from the United States, Italy, Canada and Britain. Antarctica is excellent for such observations because the air is thin and dry and does not strongly absorb microwave radiation. 
Dr. John Ruhl of the University of California at Santa Barbara presented results today for the Boomerang team. The announcements took place at a meeting of the American Physical Society. 
The Antarctica studies were buttressed today when another group of researchers reported that they had made less distinct observations of the wave patterns from the United States. That team, called Maxima, includes astronomers at the University of Minnesota and the University of California at Berkeley.
The leading theory of how the universe could have exploded out of the primordial nothingness, known as the theory of inflation, predicts that the quantum fluctuations should have rattled the universe in such a way that it resonated like a vast organ pipe, with one main tone, or wavelength, and a series of overtones or harmonics.
Last year, the Boomerang team detected the main tone but found no clear evidence for the overtones, raising the possibility that the inflation theory could be wrong. Since much of the information about the fluctuations, like their relative intensity and spectrum, would reside in the characteristics of the overtones, those results raised the prospect that few remnants of the initial spark might be found.
Today, the three teams announced that they had seen two of the overtones for the first time. In musical terms, the observations saw the first two harmonics above the main tone.
"We do see two more bumps and wiggles out there," Dr. Ruhl said. "We can move to the question of, 'What do these bumps and wiggles tell us?' " 
Dr. Max Tegmark, a cosmologist at the University of Pennsylvania, said that while the new results were still far from absolute proof of the inflation theory, their agreement with the theory was uncanny and would cast doubt on alternative models. "It's even scary that things agree this well," he said. "This is a very bad day for the competition."
Some other scientists, including Dr. Andrew Lange of Caltech, a leader of the Boomerang group, said the results strikingly showed that cosmologists understood the composition and behavior of the universe in the first few hundred thousand years of its life. It was then that the sound waves were humming through the young cosmos; astronomers believe the microwave background radiation was emitted as the universe cooled below a critical temperature when it was about 400,000 years old.
"We've really been waiting for the other shoe to drop," Dr. Lange said in reference to the lengthy search for the overtones. "What we're confirming for the first time is a very generic prediction of modern cosmology."
Although astronomers said much more detailed observations, including the discovery of further overtones, would be required to define the quantum fluctuations and to verify inflation, the results are likely to be seen as major victories for two scientists in particular.
The first, Dr. Alan Guth of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, developed the germ of the inflation model in 1980, a theory he has called "the ultimate free lunch" because it shows how the entire universe could have exploded out of nothing and impressed the quantum fluctuations on the cosmos. 
The results also provide major support for ideas closely associated with Dr. David Schramm, a Chicago cosmologist who died in a plane crash late in 1997. Dr. Schramm and his colleagues worked out a theory, unrelated to inflation, using trace elements created in the Big Bang explosion to gauge the amount of ordinary matter in the universe.
Those values agree closely with the amounts deduced from the intensity of the sound wave overtones; that intensity is affected by the sloshing of matter in the sound waves' peaks and troughs. 
On the other hand, the results also leave cosmologists with some deep and perhaps troubling questions. 
For example, the new observations confirm that most of the cosmos seems to be made of so-called dark matter and dark energy, possibly particles or energy lurking somewhere in space but still never detected directly. Dr. Turner, of Chicago, said skeptics might well term that picture "the absurd universe, or the preposterous universe." 
Sir Martin Rees, an astrophysicist at Cambridge University, said scientists were left with the question of whether fundamental physical laws would someday explain that strange mixture of ingredients, or whether the precise amounts were a sort of accident of how the universe came into being -- something like snowflakes, each of which has a hexagonal symmetry but carries a pattern that is otherwise unique.
"It may well turn out that the underlying laws do not give us these numbers, any more than they give the detailed pattern of a snowflake," Sir Martin said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "'Listening' to the Origin of the Universe"Measurements of a faint, pervasive radiation throughout space bolster a theory of the universe's origin. THE MEASUREMENT Tiny fluctuations in the temperature of wide stretches of sky carry the imprint of a wave of sound like one resonating from an organ pipe. The main tone is a tall peak, and the overtones, or harmonics, have smaller peaks. This ringing is predicted by the theory of inflation. INFLATION THEORY AND THE BIG BANG Intense, fluctuating energies fill a tiny point, setting it ringing. It rapidly expands, stretching the fabric of space as well as the fluctuations which ignites the Big Bang, creating a hot, dense soup of particles. The expanding universe continues to resonate as it cools. Several hundred thousand years later, light waves decouple from matter and carry the imprint of the energy fluctuations across the universe. The light waves expand with the universe and can be detected as faint ripples of hot and cold spots called background radiation. (Sources: Dr. John Carlstrom, Dr. Wayne Hu, University of Chicago)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (78%); PHYSICS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%) SPACE; GASES; UNIVERSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); EARTH (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); ANTARCTICA (91%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



844 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: ON BASKETBALL; 
Knick Die-Hards Can Still Dream

BYLINE:  By Mike Wise 

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
Maybe you have seen this game before, circa 1990's: Charlie Ward, head down, stubbornly refusing to settle for less than a driving layup amid a phalanx of bodies. Allan Houston, facing up his defender, depositing money with a hand in his face and a forearm against his abdomen. Latrell Sprewell, going to his left harder and more effectively than Ralph Nader.
 Maybe you watched the fourth quarter of yesterday's game between the Knicks and Toronto and had that broken-record feeling, knew what was going to happen with the game in the balance. 
 Coach Jeff Van Gundy's allegedly reeling team -- badly needing to win in a foreign land -- getting the key stop, the big shot, the series-turning victory. Followed promptly by testimonials of resolve and resiliency, words that sound cliched but somehow come to define the Knicks each spring.
Or maybe you saw something else, real change, a seamless transformation by a group of players no one thought much of as a postseason threat. With yesterday's inspiring 97-89 victory over the Raptors in Game 3, perhaps these Knicks found more in common with those Knicks of old than anyone saw from the exterior. 
The Knicks did not face elimination at the Air Canada Center. But fresh off a 20-point loss in Game 2 at home on Thursday, they did give you every reason to believe basketball was not coming back to Madison Square Garden this season.
Marcus Camby was at home, dealing with a family trauma that began last Monday. Larry Johnson's back was still sore, meaning he would be unavailable. So, down to possibly their final two games of the season, they were two starters down out of the gate.
Mark Jackson and Glen Rice had played in some pivotal N.B.A. games before, but they had yet to do it with this group, with so much at stake. Othella Harrington? Before this postseason, he played all of 80 minutes in 14 playoff games for Houston.
And yet there they were, taking the cue of Sprewell, Houston and Ward in the second half, fending off a Toronto rally that had the building growing louder and more hopeful in the final minutes. In the last five minutes, the Knicks executed offensively like a team with a purpose beyond the first and maybe even the second round.
If it was not Houston's deadeye accuracy, it was Sprewell at warp speed, losing Vince Carter with a pirouette to his left, followed by a pretty layup with his nondominant hand. Rice, whom Van Gundy played at power forward off the bench, made the signature contribution of his brief New York career; 18 points on 8-of-12 shooting, burying key jumper after key jumper. Together, Rice, Sprewell and Houston scored 62 points. 
The Knicks won with Kurt Thomas and Harrington combining for 17 points, 13 rebounds, 3 blocked shots and 11 hard fouls -- which is to say they won with a makeshift front line. Jackson played 33 economical minutes, finding the open man, getting into the head of his former team and enjoying being part of an annual tradition.
"You watched it, and you were amazed by it," the former Indiana Pacers point guard said of the Knicks' perseverance. "Because it didn't just happen once or twice. And playing against them, you realize one thing when you got them down, 3-1 or 3-2: We got to put them away with all we can. And it's going to take a lot." 
He added: "Situations occur. You realize, this team especially, the individuals that make up the team -- their character, their heart, their desire is what they reflect on when they're put in the midst of a tough situation."
It is hard to measure a town's belief about its team's chances, but you could make a good argument that the dream died this season. With Patrick Ewing in attendance at the Garden on Thursday night and the Knicks looking beaten down and beleaguered, there was not even the ugly indignation that often accompanies such blowout losses.
It was almost as if the season ticket-holder had come out of a decade-long denial about the Knicks' ability to win a championship, as if they knew and accepted this team could not climb the mountain. As much as Ewing became fair game with his annual "We're going to win it" proclamations, the people who follow the Knicks wanted to believe him, so much so that they sometimes persuaded themselves.
Thursday night at the Garden did not feel like the playoffs; it felt like the ceremonial end of an era, with the former franchise center seated courtside, taking in the action, probably knowing himself that the illusion was over.
Three days later, this version of the Knicks -- a team whose calling card became inconsistency -- went out and won their first monumental playoff game together. 
"We've faced adversity before," Sprewell said, simply. "More than anything, guys want to win and advance." 
Whether it is a watershed victory or merely an aberration will become clearer after Game 4 here on Wednesday night. Yet for the first time in a genuinely meaningful game, these Knicks cracked the window of possibility.
Wild, no? Even after Ewing, it is still not completely closed.
If Van Gundy can keep plugging in new parts that work, if Camby can return in a healthy frame of mind and if Allen Iverson has any more trouble with Indiana, it may just be time to go back into denial. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%) BASKETBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES 

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); TORONTO RAPTORS (82%) NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; TORONTO RAPTORS 

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (56%) WISE, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



845 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS: The Nation; 
WHITES IN MINORITY IN LARGEST CITIES, THE CENSUS SHOWS

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
For the first time, nearly half of the nation's 100 largest cities are home to more blacks, Hispanics, Asians and other minorities than whites, an analysis of the latest census figures shows. 
 While the population of the country's fastest-growing cities, like Las Vegas and Phoenix, increased in all racial and ethnic categories, the vast majority of American cities -- 71 of the top 100 -- lost white residents. 
 As a result, non-Hispanic whites are now a minority of the total population living in the 100 largest urban centers. 
Even as whites were leaving many urban cores for suburbs and beyond, the nation's largest cities gained 3.8 million Hispanic residents, a 43 percent increase from a decade ago. 
The mixture of white flight from downtowns and the influx of Hispanics, in particular, underscores the extent to which immigration and higher birth rates among the foreign-born are changing the complexion of cities, fueling a renaissance in some urban centers and forcing civic leaders to confront wrenching decisions on how to cope with a new and fast-changing citizenry. 
"What this shows is the volatility and complexity of change in the United States today," said Bruce Katz, director of the Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy at the Brookings Institution here. "Who's staying and who's leaving the cities has enormous implications for cities' fiscal strength, economic vitality and political influence." 
Many of these new findings are contained in a draft analysis prepared by the Brookings urban policy center, which offers some of the most detailed evidence to date of increasing diversity in the nation's cities and carries major public policy implications for city officials. 
For example, Mr. Katz said, cities' tax bases may be shrinking. Economic data from the 2000 head count will not be out until next year, but the Census Bureau's latest estimates indicate that median annual household income was about $14,000 less for Hispanic households than for non-Hispanic white households. 
The shifting ethnic and racial balance of urban populations may also force cities to rethink how they structure and deliver health care, public education and general municipal services to typically younger and larger minority families, the researchers said. 
The makeover of the nation's urban profile is already under way. In Los Angeles, Antonio Villaraigosa, a high school dropout who went on to become speaker of the California Assembly, is hoping to ride the city's surging Latino population into office as the city's first Hispanic mayor since 1872. 
In Chicago, which gained 208,000 Hispanics in the decade to fuel its first overall population increase since 1950, Mayor Richard M. Daley has championed a revival plan to improve neighborhoods, renovate old buildings and spruce up public places with trees and flowers. 
Some cities, however, are struggling. Detroit's white population plunged 53 percent in the last decade, as the city's overall population dipped below one million for the first time in 80 years. 
Smaller cities are dealing with the influx of Hispanics in very different ways. Anti-Latino sentiment in Siler City, N.C., where poultry operations have attracted thousands of Mexican immigrants, grew to the point where David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader, was invited last year to help stem the immigrant wave. 
In Dalton, Ga., a major carpet manufacturing center, the city council and community leaders have taken steps to assimilate new immigrants, including the recruitment of teachers from Mexico to teach bilingual school classes. 
The Brookings analysis focused on cities, but the conclusion that Hispanics are displacing whites as an increasing share of the population is true even in many suburbs. Cities, however, have their own changing demographic profile. 
Whites are now a majority in 52 of the biggest 100 cities, down from 70 in 1990, researchers found. Over all, the top 100 cities lost more than two million whites between 1990 and 2000, with the white share of the total population falling to 44 percent from 52 percent. Among the cities experiencing the biggest declines in white population were Birmingham, Ala., which experienced a 40 percent reduction, and Santa Ana, Calif., in Orange County, which had a 38 percent drop.
Alan Berube, a senior research analyst at the Brookings Institution who conducted much of the center's analysis, said the ability of people to identify themselves as belonging to more than one race in the 2000 census could mean that the decline in cities' white population was slightly less than 2.3 million people. 
It is possible, he said, that some people who identified themselves as white in 1990 classified themselves as multiracial in the latest census, explaining perhaps a small part of the decline in white population. 
Many cities, including Boston, Los Angeles and Dallas, would have lost population over all in the 1990's were it not for big gains in the number of Hispanics, the researchers found. 
An exception to the trend of Hispanics moving to the cities was the Washington area, where Latinos are more likely to move to the Maryland and Virginia suburbs than to the District of Columbia itself. 
"The most important factor for public officials to be aware of in the next 10 to 20 years is that the vitality of cities will depend on their ability to attract and be a hospitable environment for minorities," said John R. Logan, director of the Lewis Mumford Center for Comparative Urban and Regional Research at the State University of New York at Albany. 
"At the moment, minority populations are perceived largely in terms of potential problems in providing public services, or for their potential for creating new political divisions, instead of in terms of the contributions they're making to the vitality of the city," Mr. Logan said. 
In 18 of the 100 largest cities, whites slipped into the minority in the 1990's, bringing the total number of those cities where whites are the minority to 48. In some cities, like Anaheim and Riverside in Southern California, Hispanic immigration was the main reason the number of non-Hispanic whites declined between 16 and 21 percent as a share of the total urban population. 
Rochester, where the white population declined to 44 percent from 58 percent, was emblematic of many cities in upstate New York suffering from slow economic growth and what Mr. Katz called a "spreading out" of the metropolis to the suburbs. 
Over all, the analysis found that cities that bucked the trend of declining white population grew rapidly in the 1990's. These included Sun Belt cities like Austin, Tex. (a 21 percent increase in the white population), and Las Vegas (49 percent). 
In the 20 fastest-growing cities, the Brookings analysis found that the white population rose 5 percent, the black population 23 percent, the Asian population 69 percent and the Hispanic population 72 percent. 
"The decline in non-Hispanic whites is greater than we expected, and we don't really know what's going on," said Dowell Myers, a demographer at the University of Southern California. 
Many demographers in California said they were focusing on other indicators of shifting diversity, which Mr. Myers said might be more relevant to policy makers seeking to understand the multiethnic balance in their cities. 
In California, for instance, even though non-Hispanic whites are now a minority, 73 percent of the voters who cast ballots in last November's elections were white, while only 36 percent of children enrolled in public schools are white, he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Monday with an article about demographic shifts since 1990 in the 100 largest cities mislabeled the figures in the column headed "Decline 1990-2000," showing the change in non-Hispanic white populations. The figures denoted percentage points, not actual percentages.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: A Decade of Racial Change in the Cities"A new analysis of 2000 census data shows that non-Hispanic whites are now a minority of the total population of the 100 largest cities, and 18 of those cities became majority nonwhite over the decade. 1990POPULATION OF 100 LARGEST CITIES: 51,764,999NON-HISPANIC WHITE: 52.1%NON-HISPANIC BLACK: 24.6%HISPANICS: 17.2%ASIANS: 5.3% 2000POPULATION OF 100 LARGEST CITIES: 58,441,915NON-HISPANIC WHITE: 43.8%NON-HISPANIC BLACK: 24.1%HISPANICS: 22.5%ASIANS: 6.6% From White Majorities to Nonwhite MajoritiesEighteen of the 100 most populous cities that were majority white in 1990 became majority nonwhite in 2000. CITY: Anaheim, Calif.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 56.6%2000: 35.9%DECLINE 1990-2000: 20.8% CITY: Riverside, Calif.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 61.32000: 45.6DECLINE 1990-2000: 15.7 CITY: MilwaukeePERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 60.82000: 45.4DECLINE 1990-2000: 15.4 CITY: RochesterPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 58.32000: 44.3DECLINE 1990-2000: 14.0 CITY: SacramentoPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 53.42000: 40.5DECLINE 1990-2000: 12.8 CITY: Fort WorthPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 56.52000: 45.8DECLINE 1990-2000: 10.7 CITY: Augusta-Richmond, Ga.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 54.02000: 43.7DECLINE 1990-2000: 10.3 CITY: PhiladelphiaPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 52.12000: 42.5DECLINE 1990-2000: 9.6 CITY: BostonPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 59.02000: 49.5DECLINE 1990-2000: 9.5 CITY: San DiegoPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 58.72000: 49.4DECLINE 1990-2000: 9.3 CITY: Mobile, Ala.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 58.92000: 49.8DECLINE 1990-2000: 9.2 CITY: Montgomery, Ala.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 56.12000: 47.1DECLINE 1990-2000: 9.0 CITY: Columbus, Ga.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 57.32000: 48.6DECLINE 1990-2000: 8.7 CITY: Norfolk, Va.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 55.62000: 47.0DECLINE 1990-2000: 8.5 CITY: AlbuquerquePERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 58.32000: 49.9DECLINE 1990-2000: 8.4 CITY: Baton Rouge, La.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 52.92000: 44.7DECLINE 1990-2000: 8.1 CITY: Shreveport, La.PERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 53.62000: 45.9DECLINE 1990-2000: 7.7 CITY: St. LouisPERCENTAGE NON-HISPANIC WHITE1990: 50.22000: 42.9DECLINE 1990-2000: 7.3 The Impact of the Hispanic InfluxNineteen cities would have lost population were it not for the growth in the Hispanic population. CITY: Anaheim, Calif.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 61,608GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 69,619 CITY: BostonGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 14,858GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 23,134 CITY: ChicagoGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 112,290GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 207,792 CITY: Corpus Christi, Tex.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 20,001GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 21,029 CITY: DallasGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 181,703GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 212,347 CITY: Des MoinesGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 5,495GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 8,509 CITY: El PasoGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 48,320GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 76,206 CITY: Grand Rapids, Mich.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 8,674GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 16,424 CITY: Hialeah, Fla.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 38,415GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 39,891 CITY: Jersey CityGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 11,518GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 12,557 CITY: Kansas City, Mo.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 6,399GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 13,587 CITY: Long Beach. Calif.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 32,089GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 63,673 CITY: Los AngelesGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 209,422GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 327,662 CITY: MiamiGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 3,922GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 14,387 CITY: MinneapolisGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 14,235GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 21,275 CITY: Oakland, Calif.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 27,242GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 35,756 CITY: Riverside, Calif.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 28,661GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 38,489 CITY: Santa Ana, Calif.GROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 44,235GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 65,714 CITY: YonkersGROWTH IN TOTAL POPULATION, 1990-2000: 8,004GROWTH IN HISPANIC POPULATION, 1990-2000: 19,376 (Source: Analysis of Census Bureau data by the Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy at the Brookings Institution)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (84%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); SUBURBS (71%); REFUGEES (69%); FAMILY (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (61%) POPULATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; URBAN AREAS; CENSUS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (92%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (74%); COLUMBUS, GA, USA (59%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



846 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S. Vows to Press Ahead With Building Missile Shield
The Bush administration has put its European allies on notice that it intends to move quickly to develop a missile defense and is planning to abandon or fundamentally alter the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, which has been the keystone of arms control for nearly 30 years. A1

China to Let U.S. Inspect Plane
The Chinese government said it would allow American officials to inspect a damaged spy plane that has been at a Chinese military base since April 1, when it collided with a tracking jet fighter. A8

I.M.F. Aims for Fewer Bailouts
Leaders of the International Monetary Fund pledged to devote themselves to preventing financial crises around the world to avoid the multibillion-dollar bailouts that were common in the late 1990's. A9

Egypt-Israel Talks on Violence
Egypt's foreign minister, Amr Moussa, left, and his Israeli counterpart, Shimon Peres, said the Israelis and the Palestinians were working to formulate a cease-fire aimed at ending months of bloodshed. A6

Indonesian Leader Under Fire
Political experts said that opposition to President Abdurrahman Wahid had reached a critical mass, and that his impeachment and removal are increasingly likely. A8

Trial Over Rwanda Killings
Four people charged with complicity in multiple murders during the frenzy in Rwanda in 1994 are on trial in Brussels. A3

Rights Bill in Mexico
The Mexican Congress approved a bill, compared to American civil rights reforms of the 1960's, that would grant autonomy and protection from discrimination to Mexico's 10 million indigenous peoples. A9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Glow Linked to Big Bang
Two detectors in Antarctica have discovered minute patterns in a glow from primordial gases, possible traces of the cosmic match that ignited the Big Bang and led to the creation of the universe 14 billion years ago, astronomers announced. A1

Battle Against AIDS
Having won big price cuts for AIDS drugs sold in poor countries, groups in the fight against the epidemic are now pressing for a far broader line of attack. A6

The Internet Diet
Online weight-loss sites seem poised to take a bigger share of the $40 billion that is spent each year on diet programs and products. Unlike traditional weight loss services, the Internet-only versions can spare users the embarrassment of being seen at a weight loss franchise. "People are actually paying for this stuff," one analyst said. "It's definitely a winner." C8

NATIONAL A10-17

Latest Census Data Show Urban Demographic Shift
Nearly half of the nation's 100 largest cities are now home to more blacks, Hispanics, Asians and other minorities than whites, a study of the latest census figures shows. "What this shows is the volatility and complexity of change in the United States today," an analyst said. A1

Smithsonian Chief Under Siege
The director of the Smithsonian, Lawrence M. Small, is being criticized by the institution's scientists for his corporate vision and blunt, sometimes combative management style. The challenges the Smithsonian faces are emblematic of the cultural clash facing museums and research centers across America. A1

Beatification Calms Vieques
After two days of Navy bombing and clashes between the authorities and protesters, the island of Vieques was calmer as the military halted exercises on the day the Vatican beatified Carlos Manuel Rodriguez, who may become the first Puerto Rican saint. The exercises are to resume today, a Navy spokesman said. (AP)

Gore's Silence Is Criticized
Al Gore has rigorously followed the tradition of defeated presidential candidates keeping a low profile. But some are questioning his silence, saying that he is allowing President Bush to trample on the environmental issues that Mr. Gore has long championed. A10

Bankruptcy in a Banner Year
Pacific Gas and Electric, the California utility, may have just made one of the largest bankruptcy filings in history, but it has been a banner year for the rest of its parent company, the PG& E Corporation. A1

Plugging Products, Really
A reality-TV show called "The Runner" will make extensive use of paid sponsors, whose products will be integral to the story line. The show, to be broadcast by ABC in September, is the most ambitious use yet of advertising within the content of entertainment programming. A1

Rebuilding Philadelphia
Mayor John F. Street has set the goal of recouping the loss of 75,000 residents in the last decade by proposing a sweeping attack on tens of thousands of abandoned houses, derelict lots and gap-toothed blockfronts. A10

Multimedia Merger Discussed
AOL Time Warner has approached NTL, Britain's largest provider of cable television, about forming a distribution alliance, people close to the companies said. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Planes, Trains, Autonomy And Now an 80th Birthday
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey turns 80 today in the midst of discarding its image as a master builder and enhancing its role as a transportation specialist. "I think it becomes significantly more critical to the economic well-being of the region with each passing year," the agency's chairman said. A spokesman for a group specializing in transportation issues said the Port Authority's long-term lease of the World Trade Center is very symbolic, "a punctuation mark ending a four-decade digression." B1

Questions Over Fund-Raiser
In a quiet watershed of Jewish philanthropy, the honoree at a UJA-Federation benefit dinner next month will be Thomas Middelhoff, left, the chief executive of Bertelsmann, a German media conglomerate that published Nazi propaganda for Hitler's army. The decision to honor Mr. Middelhoff has raised questions about when an executive should be held responsible for his company's past and whether the Jewish community is ready to move into a new relationship with German companies. B1

Rent Boss to Be Replaced
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, frustrated with what he considered overly steep rent increases imposed last year on tenants of the city's 1 million rent-stabilized apartments, has decided to replace the chairman of the Rent Guidelines Board, Edward S. Hochman, just as the board begins debating the size of this year's increases, officials said. Tenant groups are demanding a rent freeze, but landlords have asked for a 9 percent rise for one-year leases. B1

ARTS E1-8

Guggenheim Dot-Com
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation is trying to combine art and e-commerce with a Web site it plans to open this fall that will offer a range of cultural content and services in a visually exciting environment that is said to go well beyond most conventional museum sites. E1

OBITUARIES B7

Leroy Ingles
The first chief of boat on the Navy's first nuclear-powered submarine, the Nautilus, was 84. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Strike Crescendo in Hollywood
There is increasing political and public pressure on the Writers Guild of America officials, who were elected on promises to be tough with media conglomerates, to avoid a strike by Hollywood's 11,000 writers. The pace of the negotiations is expected to pick up as the deadline of 12:01 a.m. Wednesday approaches. Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles said a long strike would "plunge our city and county into a recession." A study he commissioned estimated losses of up to $6.9 billion. C1

Online Radio Signing Off
Some radio groups have stopped their Internet broadcasts because of concerns about paying performers in radio commercials when those commercials are broadcast online. C2

Music Merger Talks Falter
EMI Group and Bertelsmann are said to be close to calling off their merger negotiations because of regulatory uncertainty. C2

High-Speed Band for Laptops
Atheros Communications, a Silicon Valley start-up, plans to announce today its first partners to help roll out a new wireless data standard. Atheros hopes the promise of blinding speed will attract laptop users, operating in a newly licensed swath of the radio frequency band. C2

Business Digest C1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Election reform stalls; a brotherly feud over energy; redeeming a historic trust.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Public Lives A10
Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (87%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); MURDER (70%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); IMPEACHMENT (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (63%); CENSUS (62%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); WEIGHT REDUCING CENTERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); RWANDA (92%); EUROPE (92%); INDONESIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BELGIUM (78%); ANTARCTICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



847 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/NEW-ECONOMY CITIES; 
Urban Readiness

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
A quick glance at the top of the ranking (San Francisco; Austin, Tex.; Seattle, and Raleigh-Durham, N.C.) all but gives away the survey topic: How well have American cities adapted to the so-called new economy? 
 Down the list, things get less predictable. 
Salt Lake City and Miami did well. Hartford and Charlotte fell in the middle. Southern cities dominated the bottom, with the exception of Grand Rapids, Mich., which finished dead last. 
 The study, conducted by the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington and Case Western Reserve University, judged the 50 largest metropolitan areas in the United States based on 16 categories. The criteria include the educational level of a region's population, the portion of jobs in fast-growing companies, the amount of Internet traffic a region can handle and the amount of research and development its universities perform. 
 And New York? It came in 17th -- above average, but not quite as good as Silicon Alley's reputation might suggest. Relative to the region's size, metropolitan New York has relatively little entrepreneurial activity, said Rob D. Atkinson, one of the study's authors. Congestion and the high cost of living also make it harder for the region to recruit new-economy workers. DAVID LEONHARDT

GRAPHIC: Photo: San Francisco Chart: "How well have the 50 largest cities adapted to the new economy?" THE BEST San FranciscoAustin, Tex.SeattleRaleigh-Durham, N.C.San DiegoWashingtonDenverBostonSalt Lake CityMinneapolis MIDDLE OF THE PACK MiamiNew York CityChicagoLos AngelesHartfordSt. LouisDetroitCharlotte, N.C.Las VegasColumbus, Ohio THE WORST West Palm Beach, Fla.Dayton, OhioTampa, Fla.Norfolk, Va.Greensboro, N.C.Louisville, KyMemphisJacksonville, Fla.San AntonioGrand Rapids, Mich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (91%); CITY LIFE (91%); RANKINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); COST OF LIVING (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RESEARCH; URBAN AREAS 

ORGANIZATION: PROGRESSIVE POLICY INSTITUTE; CASE WESTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); DURHAM, NC, USA (90%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); AUSTIN (TEX); SEATTLE (WASH); RALEIGH-DURHAM (NC); NEW YORK CITY; SOUTHERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



848 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Passion for Trains Is a Way to Run a Railroad 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: UTICA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
David Monte Verde hears it still. Even now, even here in this restaurant near the rail yard, above the din of an all-you-can-eat lasagna night. It rumbles through his memory the way it thundered through the Genesee Valley of his childhood, bound for Buffalo, making time. The Phoebe Snow.
 "When that train came down the hill, the sound of it would just echo across the valley," he says, staring past the restaurant's gaudy glare. "You could set your clock to it." 
 And when she pulled into the Dansville station each afternoon at 5:27 -- her brakes sighing, her gray, yellow and maroon finish gleaming -- young David's universe was in its rightful order. Mom and Dad were alive, supper was waiting, and the pride of the Lackawanna line would be back again tomorrow, looking to make time. 
It has been about 40 years since the original Phoebe Snow made its last run, and nearly that long since Mr. Monte Verde watched the last passenger train fade from the station platform of his small town in western New York. He was 16, old enough to know that crews would soon be tearing up the Lackawanna rails from the surrounding hills. All he could do was cry.
Trains have defined him ever since. "You get them in your blood," he says.
Today, Mr. Monte Verde is the president of his own railroad, a profession so uncommon, so linked to another time, that it conjures images of pocket watches and top hats. Strangers often misunderstand him to mean that he somehow earns a living by overseeing a fleet of model railroads. No, he has to explain: I own the real thing.
His is a short-line railroad called the Genesee Valley Transportation Company, which at last count had 27 locomotives, hundreds of boxcars and control of nearly 300 miles of track in New York and Pennsylvania. When a major hauler chugs into the grimy Utica yard with raw copper from Texas, a G.V.T. engine takes over, pulling the loaded cars down 13 miles of track and into the red-brick maw of the Revere Copper Products plant in Rome.
Mr. Monte Verde, 55, carries his solid build with the frenetic air of a commuter waiting for a train running late. He made the not-so-seamless transition from rail fan to rail businessman by collecting anything that reminded him of those childhood days: trainmen's keys, passenger-train china, photographs, cabooses -- and then, well, locomotives. "It kind of got away from me," he says.
He has learned that the business of railroading spares little time for sentiment; there are customers to woo, government grants to win, connections to make. It is also a sobering barometer of the fragile upstate New York economy. When two paper mills shut down in the Adirondacks last winter, Mr. Monte Verde and his four partners lost nearly a third of their business. They were forced to lay off more than a dozen trainmen in a process he likened to "losing part of the family."
The comment reveals the blurred distinctions in Mr. Monte Verde's life, between work and leisure, rail yard and home, past and present. 
He often lapses into the language of an alternate universe: of wide cabs, Alcos and "moving meets" (the point at which two trains traveling in opposite directions pass each other). He says that "being a railroader takes over your life." For example, one of his most vivid memories as a parent is the time, nearly 20 years ago, when he changed the diapers of his oldest son, Charlie, in a Buffalo rail yard.
"It was his first rail-fan trip," the proud father says. 
In 1980, there were 220 short-line railroads in the United States; today, there are 550, thanks in part to the lifting of some government regulations that encouraged larger companies to sell off their little-used and abandoned branch lines. Those in the railroad industry say the arrangement has generally worked out well, with the major rail companies teaming with the short-line operations to haul goods and material. 
Even so, railroading has its familial tensions. Many rail fans blame the businesses for mismanaging and ultimately killing dozens of passenger and freight trains that once inched across the nation's belly with proud and poetic names. (Once there was the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe; now there is Amtrak.) But many rail businesses regard the rail fans as nostalgia-addled fanatics who expect them to run empty passenger trains at a financial loss, simply to conjure nice memories and provide the occasional photographic moment.
Mark Hemphill, the editor of Trains magazine, says the discontinuation of many passenger trains in the 1950's and 60's spurred a mutual distrust that manifests itself today in odd ways. Conspiracy theories abound. Some rail companies even delicately ask whether a job applicant is, how shall we put this, a rail enthusiast, forcing some to become what are called "closet rail fans."
"The feeling has been that the rail fan will run trains for the sake of running trains, whether or not they make money," Mr. Hemphill says. But he adds that the idea that an enthusiast cannot be prudent in the business of railroading is "silly."
There are, after all, the likes of Mr. Monte Verde -- his company's logo on his shirt, a worn trainman's switch key in his pocket. The inside of his well-traveled Dodge sedan crackles with the short-wave conversations between dispatchers and train engineers. Whenever he sees an Amtrak train whiz past, he reaches for the schedule he keeps tucked in the car's sun visor, just to see how late it is running. 
But that cluttered Dodge is a satellite office of his company's headquarters in Batavia, about 23 miles east of Buffalo. He roams the state and eastern Pennsylvania, meeting with clients, buttering up politicians, and doing anything else he can to keep his company profitable.
After graduating from college, Mr. Monte Verde spent two decades in the business of rail equipment and signal supplies, then worked for a few years at Kodak in Rochester. All the while, he fed his rail passion, studying railroad history and taking train photographs by the score.
In 1987, he and four partners bought and restored an Alco engine, made money by leasing it out, and then donated it to the Rochester chapter of the National Railway Historical Society. "Then we bought two more," he says.
Today, the partnership that became Genesee Valley Transportation oversees five active rail lines. They include the Depew, Lancaster & Western Railroad, featuring a seven-mile run in Batavia that moves loads of fertilizer and beer; the Delaware-Lackawanna Railroad, which hauls grain and propane 30 miles from Scranton to the Poconos; and the Mohawk, Adirondack & Northern Railroad, here in Utica.
The morning after his lasagna feast, Mr. Monte Verde walks through the gravel and grime of the Utica rail yard, pausing to examine a 1964 Alco engine nicknamed Jumbo. A rail fan, he says, marvels at the paint scheme of the engine, imagines photographing it against a setting gumdrop sun. But an owner studies the wear and tear on the steel wheels, and wonders whether it is time for old Jumbo to take a trip to the repair shop.
Soon the 132-ton Jumbo is chugging through the rail-yard landscape of wheat-colored cattails and 20-foot piles of logs, "switching and kicking" rail cars into position along several tracks. Some contain junk destined for a steel mill; others carry copper for the Revere plant in Rome.
The engineer, Bob Hoffman, stout and 51, lives outside Rochester but spends four nights a week in a converted rail car he keeps in the yard. He adjusts the throttle and peers into his side-view mirror, occasionally pausing to bite a glazed doughnut and slurp some cold coffee.
His lanky assistant, Jeff Collins, 40, used to work on a rail line that served a paper mill, not far from his home in Watertown. But that mill closed, and now he spends weeknights on a cot in Utica. Part of his job is to hop off the engine every now and then to set the switches and rattle off the identification letters and numbers of the cars over a two-way radio.
"Fire away there, Jeff," the engineer says, clipboard and pen in hand.
"HWA 12778, HWA 882202."
Mr. Monte Verde rides with them for a while in the battleship-gray engine cab; with voices raised above Jumbo's heaves and sighs, he and the men talk trains. About the guy who lost a leg a week earlier in a Syracuse yard. About that remote station sign, just above Boonville, which simply says "Hell." About the exact meaning of that milepost in the yard ("It means we're 235 miles from Grand Central Terminal," Mr. Monte Verde says).
The agile Mr. Collins leaves the cab and pulls the pin that connects Jumbo to its load. The four rail cars roll away, as if in a dream, onto a sidetrack, where they will be hitched up and pulled on another day. 
"That's a perfect kick," Mr. Monte Verde says, in the language of his universe.
Recently, the president of the Genesee Valley Transportation Company experienced a different kind of perfect kick. After years of scouring rail magazines, memorabilia conventions and the Internet for anything related to the passenger trains of his Dansville childhood, Mr. Monte Verde came upon a photograph that had been posted on a rail-fan Web site. A rail buff, riding in the back of the last Hoboken-bound passenger train on the Lackawanna line, snapped the photo as the train pulled from the Dansville station on a hot July day in 1962.
There, in black and white, is the clapboard building, the platform, the shingle bearing the name of the town. And there, near the baggage cart, is 16-year-old David Monte Verde, hands on hips and tears to come.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Onlookers, including a teenage rail fan near the baggage cart at right, watched as the last passenger train bound for Hoboken on the Lackawanna line pulled out of Dansville, N.Y., on a hot July day in 1962. (pg. B5); As president of Genesee Valley Transportation Company, David Monte Verde controls 27 locomotives. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (69%); PAPER MILLS (60%) RAILROADS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: REVERE COPPER PRODUCTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GENESEE VALLEY TRANSPORTATION CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (52%); SIC3351 ROLLING, DRAWING, & EXTRUDING OF COPPER (52%)

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; MONTE VERDE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



849 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: As It Turns 80, Port Authority Looks to Roots For Its Future 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
As it marks its 80th birthday today, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is discarding its image as a master builder and enhancing its role as a transportation specialist. 
 In the early 1960's, the agency was embarking on planning for the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. It was heading an expansion and redesign of the bridges and roads connecting the two states, including the addition of a lower deck to the George Washington Bridge, to ease traffic congestion. The agency was also assisting New York in designing and building the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and the Throgs Neck Bridge. Such projects burnished the agency's image as a can-do master builder, though sometimes an arrogant one, accused of running roughshod over local concerns. 
 The Port Authority's reputation then reflected the grand accomplishments of an agency that one historian has called a "tethered empire." It had made the region's three airports among the most important in the world, and its port into one of the busiest. All the while it was insulated from most political pressures, except those exerted by the governors of the two states it linked.
Today, on the anniversary of the agency's creation on April 30, 1921, the Port Authority has begun divesting itself of the trade center's twin towers through a 99-year lease to a private real estate concern signed last week. Authority officials said the $3.22 billion proceeds from the deal would go to the agency's "core mission" -- planning and building road, air and marine transportation between the two states.
But rather than building new roads, bridges or tunnels to ease the region's severe traffic congestion, the agency is focusing on using new technology and a system of bridge and tunnel tolls. While the cost of getting around at rush hours has increased substantially, those who use the E-ZPass electronic toll collection system have seen smaller price increases at other times.
On the face of it, these latest endeavors sound like a narrowing of the agency's vision. But the Port Authority's chairman, Lewis M. Eisenberg, disagrees. The authority is still gatekeeper of the region's three airports and for enough seagoing cargo to make the New York-New Jersey area the East Coast's largest port. And, Mr. Eisenberg said, with billions being spent to improve the airports and to dredge shipping channels, the Port Authority is still critical to more than just auto and truck traffic in the region.
"I think it becomes significantly more critical to the economic well-being of the region with each passing year," he said in an interview. "With the increase in the flow of goods and services into the largest metropolitan region in the world, it is, if anything, more important."
Indeed, Neil D. Levin, the agency's executive director, saw some "historical elegance" in the closing of the deal to lease the World Trade Center so close to the Port Authority's 80th birthday. The complex had been started to "seed" office development in a sagging Lower Manhattan and to sharpen the focus on the region's place in world trade.
"That's been done, and now it is time to husband our resources and go back to our core mission," he said. "And the future has never looked better for focused, transportation-related projects."
The agency's recent history has been characterized by some drift from its main mission, according to historians, supporters and critics of the Port Authority. It found itself entangled with local political concerns and buffeted by forces in each state's capital that promoted competition between the states rather than cooperation.
As recently as last year, the two governors threw the Port Authority into an impasse in a dispute over allocation of the agency's revenues and resources, directing their commissioners on the agency's board to block approval of projects favored by the other state. 
Jameson W. Doig, a professor of politics at Princeton whose new book, "Empire on the Hudson: Entrepreneurial Vision and Political Power at the Port of New York Authority," examines the agency's first 50 years, sees crucial challenges for the agency in whether the governors of the two states will continue to view it as an extension of their own political mandates and whether they will appoint independent commissioners.
"That independence declined in the 90's and they were not strong and were taking their marching orders from the governors when the governors cared about the agency," Professor Doig said.
Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group specializing in transportation and planning issues, said the agency strayed from its regional transportation mission in the early 90's and became "a cookie jar" for pet projects of the two governors in their states. In the process, he said, it lost some of its cachet as the place where the brightest public administration and engineering graduates wanted to be, and became vulnerable to budget and salary cuts that made it more difficult to attract the most talented people.
"But we feel that they have gotten back on track and are a leaner, meaner and more focused place than they have been in 40 years," he said. The long-term lease of the World Trade Center is very symbolic, he said, "a punctuation mark ending a four-decade digression." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); HISTORY (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



850 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: AOL Time Warner Said to Seek Pact With British Cable Provider 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 29 

 BODY:
AOL Time Warner has approached NTL, Britain's largest provider of cable television, about forming a distribution alliance, people close to the companies said today.
 The companies are discussing a marketing agreement that would give AOL Time Warner access to NTL's networks and permit it to share revenue from broadband customers in exchange for its content. But AOL Time Warner would not invest in NTL, these people said. 
 A combination would unite AOL Time Warner's Internet, cable, music, movie, television and book publishing content with NTL's 8.5 million cable subscribers. The cable company reaches 20 million households throughout Britain, Germany, France, Switzerland and Sweden.
NTL, which has offices in New York and London, declined to comment; a spokesman from AOL Time Warner was not immediately available for comment.
Stephen M. Case, the chairman of AOL Time Warner, and Gerald M. Levin, the company's chief executive, have made no secret of their intention to expand in Europe, which is largely an untapped market for the company. International operations now account for less than one-fifth of AOL Time Warner's total revenue. Expanding beyond the United States is considered especially important, given the sluggish state of the domestic economy.
AOL Time Warner allayed immediate concerns that the economic slowdown would bite into advertising and subscriber growth when it reported first-quarter results earlier this month. Its loss narrowed by 7 percent, to $1.37 billion from $1.46 billion in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased 9 percent, to $9.1 billion from $8.3 billion.
Striking a deal with NTL would be AOL Time Warner's first significant foray outside the United States since the companies' merger last year, which was valued at $165 billion when it was announced.
AOL Time Warner first approached British Telecommunications, but the overture did not produce a deal, these people said. B.T. has been widely criticized in Britain for its slowness in rolling out high-speed broadband services.
Along with other British cable operators, NTL has struggled to make profits in the face of heavy investments on infrastructure. In the three months ended Dec. 31, the company lost $1.2 billion on sales of $852.9 million as borrowing costs ate into earnings. NTL has been fighting a three-front war to win pay TV, telephone and Internet customers away from rivals like the British Sky Broadcasting Group. Last week, NTL received $388 million from GE Capital, alleviating immediate concerns about its financial position. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); BROADBAND (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BOOK PUBLISHING (55%); EXECUTIVES (53%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (93%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER; NTL PLC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (93%); BSY (LSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (62%); GEC (LSE) (62%); GE (SWX) (62%); GE (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (62%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEVE CASE (59%) KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



851 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Hungary's Premier Is Fearful of Turmoil in Ukraine 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Hungary, April 29 

 BODY:
Viktor Orban, at 37, is one of Central Europe's most unusual politicians, leading a political and cultural counterrevolution against what he considers the residue and inheritors of Hungary's Communist past.
 He became famous in 1989 when, as a scruffy opposition leader, he called for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Hungary, articulating the desires of the whole region. 
 Born in the provinces, he retains a visceral dislike for the tainted elites of the capital who he says collaborated with the old Communist government.
He has moved his party, Fidesz, to the center-right, hoping to create a lasting alternative to the Socialists, all the while plucking at Hungarian nationalist heartstrings. 
He has pressed hard for entry to the European Union, sided firmly with the United States on a range of security issues and says Hungary, as one of the alliance's newest members, feels secure within NATO, which he would like to see expanded to Russia's borders.
But just now, in his third year as prime minister and as he prepares to meet President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney for the first time this week, the new reach of President Vladimir V. Putin's Russia and the political turmoil in neighboring Ukraine seem uppermost in his mind.
"Ukraine is the key country in the whole new European security structure, and probably Ukraine deserves more attention," Mr. Orban said in an expansive interview, suggesting that it would be a prime topic for him in Washington, where the new administration has had little to say so far about Ukraine.
"Without the guaranteed independence of Ukraine, the whole post-cold-war security architecture of Europe is in danger," Mr. Orban said. "For Ukraine to maintain its independence, in all senses, especially in political and security terms, is vital for all of Europe."
With Ukraine's Western-minded prime minister, Viktor Yushchenko, ousted last week and President Leonid D. Kuchma facing constant protests as he is accused of corruption and ordering the murder of a journalist, Ukraine is open to meddling from Moscow, Mr. Orban said.
Both Mr. Yushchenko and Mr. Kuchma support a more democratic, Western style of government, Mr. Orban said. "What is going on now in Ukraine is an attack on this structure, to pull Ukraine back into the chaos where it was," he said. "And chaos in Ukraine opens up the possibility of the loss of Ukraine's independence, and the candidates for a more pro-Russian Ukrainian foreign and security policy are there -- they are already on the stage."
He insisted that he did not want to speculate, but then added: "So who is behind this development? I would not forget about the possibility of the more Russian-oriented political groups."
Mr. Orban has been criticized by his opponents as aggressive and even authoritarian, limiting the powers of Parliament, but he says that in his time in office he has become "less harsh."
"People want to see leadership in the country," he said, explaining how he had survived the disgrace and fall of a corrupt coalition partner while improving his own ratings. "I solved a conflict -- that's their understanding -- and I maintained leadership. Thinking not with the mind of a politician, we have to admit that this is the right approach."
Mr. Orban calls for a better attempt by the West to analyze Mr. Putin's efforts to reorganize Russia and restore its influence, this time not through tanks and soldiers but through economic might.
While tanks and soldiers are noisy and obvious, Mr. Orban said, much Russian money is hidden and laundered. Efforts to buy shares in Hungarian energy and chemical companies are being investigated by the government, "and I've learned a lot," Mr. Orban said, aided by a unit of the F.B.I. here that concentrates on Russian organized crime.
"Free trade and economic cooperation are good things, and we don't want to discriminate against Russian capital," he said. "But it's not transparent capital. We worry that money laundering and organized crime and suspicious offshore companies are involved."
As for Russia, he said, "we should try to understand them with a Russian logic, but that doesn't mean accepting all their arguments." And he said he would like to see NATO expanded to include the Baltic nations of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, a proposal strongly opposed by Moscow. 
"I understand there are difficulties," he said. "I've been a politician for several years, but I still try to listen to my heart."
Mr. Orban spoke in English, only rarely looking to aides for English phrases. He was voluble and amusing, going off the record to discuss other regional politicians and acknowledging that corruption in Hungary remained a problem, "but not so severe as the opposition says."
Such allegations from the opposition, he said, using a Hungarian expression, are "like the owl telling the sparrow he has a big head."
He conceded that his government's effort to promote Hungarian companies for key state contracts created "a tension" with competitive bidding, but said he was trying to strike a balance. The opposition, of course, says his government merely favors companies that contribute to his political party and its allies.
Mr. Orban's fiercely anti-Communist Fidesz party is running even in opinion polls with the Socialists, who are the reformed Communist Party, with about a quarter of the vote each.
All other parties, including the Liberals, who were once in coalition with the Socialists and could be again, get less than 5 percent, and more than 40 percent of voters interviewed say they are undecided.
Despite disarray among the Socialists about their leadership, Mr. Orban insisted that he would not call elections until next April at the earliest, so his government would complete a four-year term -- an important message of stability, he said, to voters and foreign investors.
And his aides have promised that Fidesz will not go into any formal coalition with MIEP, an anti-Semitic nationalist party that effectively supports the government.
Win or lose, Mr. Orban says he is proud of trying to bring clear language to Hungarian politics and some optimism to the young.
"Those with education have the duty to find language to bring ordinary people into the common affairs of the nation," he said passionately. "People feel that politics is part of their lives and belongs to them, not just to the elite."
When he was growing up, he said, his grandmother, reflecting "the melancholy of our national character," begged him not to be confrontational or a troublemaker.
"Just being gray and having no dreams was a good thing," he said. "That kind of pessimistic approach to the future was very common in Hungary. I can't say it's over, but we're living under a new tendency, with more people brave enough to have their own dreams of the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary has endeavored to create an alternative to the Socialist heirs of the old Communist Party. (Associated Press) Map of Hungary highlighting Budapest: Events in Ukraine and Russia are felt by leaders in Budapest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; ORBAN, VIKTOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) HUNGARY (99%); UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) HUNGARY; UKRAINE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



852 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: China, Relaxing the Tension, Will Let U.S. Inspect Plane 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 29 

 BODY:
The Chinese government said today that it would allow American officials to inspect a damaged spy plane that has been sitting at a Chinese military base since April 1, when it collided with a tracking jet fighter. The move indicated that Beijing might be ready to ease the rancor over the episode. 
 The brief announcement, by the New China News Agency, lacked the shrill accusative tone of earlier statements about the collision, which caused the loss of the Chinese aircraft and pilot, the emergency landing by the American plane and its 24 crew members on Hainan island, and a tempest in diplomatic relations. 
 The announcement indicated that secret negotiations have continued since a senior American delegation visited Beijing earlier this month. It said the two sides had "agreed to discuss ways to avoid similar incidents in the future," apparently through an established joint Military Maritime Commission. 
But in a demonstration of the continued potential for disagreement, the announcement also repeated China's claim that "the U.S. plane rammed into a Chinese plane" and said, "The U.S. side has agreed to consider making a payment to the Chinese side." Further negotiations, it said, will determine "the specific amount of the U.S. payment and the items to be covered." 
The report of a possible payment seemed intended to suggest that the United States may be admitting fault for the collision -- something American officials have refused to do, asserting that such flights outside China's 12-mile territorial waters are legal and that the collision was caused by the Chinese pilot's recklessly close swoops.
"There's no way the United States will pay anything that looks remotely like compensation," said a Western diplomat here who is familiar with the talks. 
But the diplomat added that the United States has considered paying some relatively modest expenses connected with the return of the spy plane, an EP-3E propeller aircraft. Such payments, if presented here in sufficiently ambiguous terms, might give the Chinese leaders a face-saving way to release the plane.
In Washington, Vice President Dick Cheney called China's invitation "an encouraging sign." "The fact that they have now announced that they are willing to have U.S. personnel go in and look at the aircraft and assess what it is going to take to get it back, I think is very positive," he said on "Fox News Sunday."
Mr. Cheney said the United States had agreed to reimburse only costs associated with recovery of the $80 million plane, which he said is not in condition to fly. "The nose is gone from it, all of the instruments don't work, two of the engines are out," he said. "Somebody's going to have to go in and load it on something and transport it out, probably a barge or something."
A technical team may leave for China as early as Monday, possibly from Kadena Air Base in Okinawa, Japan, the largest American air base in East Asia, a Defense Department official said.
Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation" that he considered the development constructive and that the American experts are expected to go to China "as soon as their documentation is ready, their visas are ready."
"There is no expectation that the United States is going to pay any compensation to China," he said.
The United States was angered by the 11-day delay in releasing the crew, which came only after an official statement by the United States that it was "very sorry" about the death of the Chinese pilot and the unauthorized emergency landing. 
American officials have been pressing to get the plane back, though they concede that the Chinese must have pored over the plane. It was packed with eavesdropping equipment that was only partly destroyed by the crew in the frantic moments after landing. 
Chinese officials insist that they have proof that the American plane made a sudden and improper swerve, causing the collision 70 miles off Hainan. They say such spy flights are an affront that must be stopped, though they are aware that the United States fully intends to continue them. 
The collision aroused nationalist passions in China and the government's propaganda machine has tried to capitalize on public sympathy for the lost pilot, Wang Wei, featuring him as a model and hero. But the Chinese leaders have also emphasized their desire to preserve good ties with the United States, which they see as vital to China's economic development. 
Those ties have taken a dip since by the Bush administration's announcement that it will allow the sale of major new weapons to Taiwan, including four naval destroyers, antisubmarine aircraft and up to eight diesel submarines. China considers Taiwan a renegade province and calls such sales a gross intrusion, as well as a violation of American promises. 
Now another irritant is looming as the United States prepares to let Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, stop in New York and Houston en route to and from Latin America in May and June. 
China does not consider Taiwan's government legitimate and views any high-level contacts with Taiwan by the United States to be a violation of American promises to recognize only "one China." 
According to reports in Washington and Taipei, Mr. Chen will stop in New York May 21 to May 23 and then in Houston on June 2 and June 3, as he returns from a visit to five small Central and South American countries -- some of the small number of countries that still recognize Taipei rather than Beijing, usually in return for large foreign aid packages.
Mr. Chen has asked whether he can have quiet meetings with supporters in the United States Congress during the stopovers, and American diplomats say they are discussing the matter. 
China has repeatedly demanded that Washington refuse to give Mr. Chen a transit permit. If he does meet with members of Congress or other officials, that would compound the offense in Beijing's eyes. 
Chinese ire over a related question has been put off. The United States, to Beijing's condemnation, gave a visa to a former president of Taiwan, Lee Teng-hui, who had planned to visit his alma mater, Cornell University, in May. But Mr. Lee has postponed his trip, ostensibly for health reasons, so it will not happen near the time of Mr. Chen's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (77%) ECKHOLM, ERIK; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); HAINAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) CHINA; HAINAN ISLAND (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



853 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: World Financial Officials Pledge to Work to Block New Crises Before They Happen 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29 

 BODY:
Leaders of the International Monetary Fund, responding quickly to early rumblings from the Bush administration, pledged today to devote themselves to preventing financial crises around the world in an effort to avoid the multibillion-dollar bailouts that were a common occurrence in the late 1990's.
 After a weekend of talks among member nations of the fund and the World Bank, financial leaders made upbeat comments about the slumping world economy and promised to support a multibillion-dollar fight against infectious diseases in poor nations. 
 Protesters rallied today in the sunshine outside World Bank headquarters, demanding that wealthy nations forgive all debts of developing countries. But the turnout was far smaller than a year ago, when thousands of demonstrators stormed police barricades. 
Horst Kohler, the fund's managing director, pledged that his global lending agency would develop better "early warning systems" to identify and expose weaknesses in member nations before they become emergencies. He called the mission the central focus of his tenure at the fund, which began last summer.
The goal of increasing surveillance of member nations and more closely monitoring financial markets has been an often-repeated one since the I.M.F. failed to diagnose chronic weaknesses of Asian nations that led to worldwide financial turmoil in 1997.
But Mr. Kohler's decision to highlight the work as his new top priority appeared to be a politically astute attempt to blunt warnings from some Bush administration officials, who have sharply criticized the fund's bailouts in Asia and Russia. John Taylor, who has been selected to be the Treasury Department's top international official, has in the past called the fund ineffective and wasteful and advocated abolishing it. He has since backed off those views.
Addressing member nations of the fund today, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said that the agency must become better at preventing, rather than responding to, crises. The United States is the fund's largest shareholder, but it does not control the policies of the 183-nation lender.
"I envision that the I.M.F., while sharpening its ability to respond to financial disruptions swiftly and appropriately, does so less frequently because it has succeeded in preventing crises from developing in the first place," Mr. O'Neill said in a statement to the fund's controlling oversight board.
Mr. Kohler echoed the theme in comments after the day's meetings. "The I.M.F. needs to work even harder to put crisis prevention at the heart of its activities," he said.
Mr. Kohler said the fund has set up a new capital markets group that will communicate more with private bankers and traders to spot potential difficulties early. It has started a pilot program with the World Bank to assess the stability of the financial sectors of member nations, he said.
While few disagree with the notion that the fund should seek to prevent crises from happening, the challenge is to identify -- and in some cases to expose -- weaknesses in public finances or banks of member nations before they undermine confidence.
Despite the focus on prevention, donor nations of the fund indicated broad support today for its two latest emergency rescue efforts -- Turkey and Argentina.
Officials said Turkey's $10 billion aid package would be finalized within days. Argentina made progress toward persuading the fund that its newest program of financial changes, developed by Domingo Cavallo, the nation's new economic minister, would lead to fresh growth while narrowing the nation's budget gap, fund officials said.
Treasury officials have indicated that they see Turkey as a test case of their insistence on accountability, warning Turkish leaders that they should not return to the fund for more money if their financial overhaul, which includes bank reforms, privatization and budget cutting, fails to restore investors' confidence.
Financial officials also said they had made progress generating support for a multibillion-dollar global effort to fight AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The effort, proposed by Italy, would dramatically increase spending on anti-disease programs by the World Bank and United Nations and would focus primarily on Africa.
"I think this absolutely must be done and will be done," Laurent Fabius, France's finance minister, said today. He said the goal is to raise as much as $10 billion to support research and to make drugs available in nations where infectious diseases are prevalent. The amount is many times greater than is devoted to the fight against the diseases today.
Mr. O'Neill sounded a skeptical note about how useful such an effort would be in Africa, which lacks the infrastructure to administer a widespread disease treatment program, a senior Treasury official said. But the broad goal of starting such an effort appeared in the ministers' communique today, and Treasury officials have not ruled out participation by the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); TRENDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); PRIVATE BANKING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (79%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



854 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Plans To Order Shift In Rent Board 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON with BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, frustrated with what he considered excessive rent increases imposed last year on tenants of the city's 1 million rent-stabilized apartments, has decided to replace the chairman of the Rent Guidelines Board just as it begins debating the size of this year's increases, administration officials said yesterday.
 Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding said Mr. Giuliani and other officials "were disappointed" after the nine-member board, in a 5-to-4 vote last June, approved the largest rent increase since 1996. Now, before this year's vote, they want to replace the chairman, Edward S. Hochman, and to fill two vacancies, Mr. Harding said. 
 Steven Sinacori, 30, a lawyer in private practice who lives in Queens, was once an aide in the office of Mr. Giuliani's chief of staff and more recently was on the staff of the city's Board of Standards and Appeals, will be named chairman, Mr. Harding said.
Mr. Hochman, 48, of Manhattan, who has been chairman since the start of the Giuliani administration in 1994, said yesterday that he had not been notified that he was being replaced. He said he was prepared to preside today over the board's first official hearing on this year's rent increase proposals, scheduled to start at 9:30 a.m. at 9 Metrotech Center in Downtown Brooklyn.
"I don't know whether it is retaliatory or whatever else because I don't know whether it is true," said Mr. Hochman, a corporate lawyer, adding that he was weary after seven years on the board and had "mumbled about" wanting to step down.
For much of the Giuliani administration, low inflation and steady fuel prices translated into modest rent increases from the guidelines board -- and correspondingly little political fallout. But last year, complaining of higher fuel-related bills for heat and hot water, landlords pressed for much larger increases.
Their requests were met by protests from groups representing the 2.3 million tenants of the city's rent-stabilized apartments. 
Despite Mr. Giuliani's publicly stated objections, the board approved a 4 percent increase for one-year leases and 6 percent for two-year renewals, slightly higher than the mayor had sought. 
This year, tenant groups are demanding a rent freeze. But landlords, again citing high fuel costs, have asked for a 9 percent rise for one-year leases and 13 percent for two-year renewals, which would be the largest increase in two decades.
The board is set to take a preliminary vote on May 9, and a final vote in June. Increases would take effect only for leases signed after Oct. 1.
The mayor appoints all nine members of the Rent Guidelines Board. Two are designated as tenant representatives, two as representatives of property owners and five as representatives of the public at large. Mr. Hochman was chosen as a public representative. Service on the board is considered part time. Members are paid $100 for each day the board meets; the chairman gets $125.
Given the extremely close votes of the last two years -- the board also voted 5 to 4 in 1999 -- replacing Mr. Hochman and naming two new public representatives to the board could shift the tenor of the panel.
Mr. Hochman, long a target of criticism by tenant advocates, has been the subject of death threats. Shortly after he joined the board, furious tenants followed him to the subway after a meeting and threatened to throw him onto the tracks. He sometimes loses his own temper at board meetings, yelling back at tenants who curse or insult him.
Mr. Hochman said yesterday that at times he felt like a dartboard, charged with enforcing what he considers a flawed rent-stabilization law. "We are not a social agency for either side," he said. "The law basically says, 'Prevent tenants from being hit with unconscionable rent increases, while at the same time make sure -- in this vague term -- that landlords make a 'fair and reasonable' return.' "
Even before word circulated yesterday that Mr. Hochman was going to be asked to resign, Kenny Schaeffer, vice chairman of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a tenants' group, called for Mr. Hochman's ouster. A protest rally is set for tonight.
"Ed Hochman has failed to protect the one million households living in stabilized apartments from oppressive rents," Mr. Schaeffer said during a news conference on the steps of City Hall, which was also attended by City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Democratic candidate for mayor. "The Rent Guidelines Board has been asleep at the wheel."
Mr. Hevesi said that even with increases in fuel and other costs in the last two years, last year's rent increase and the one sought by landlords this year were not justified. He and Mr. Schaeffer cited a Rent Guidelines Board study released recently that concluded that landlords netted an average of $314 per month in 1999 for each rent-stabilized apartment they own, the highest monthly profit since the board began tracking profits in 1989.
"At a time when landlords are reaping record profits, such an enormous increase would be grossly unfair," Mr. Hevesi said in a letter dated last week to Mr. Hochman, objecting to a possible 13 percent increase.
Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, the city's largest landlord group, defended the size of the increase being sought. Even before he knew of Mr. Hochman's pending departure, Mr. Freund expressed some wariness about board members the mayor might appoint.
"What concerns us is that the mayor, who has expressed his desire to have the board do his bidding, may well fill those spots with members who are more likely to do his bidding," Mr. Freund said late last week. "Therefore, we'll have not a rational process but a political process." 
Appointing a new chairman and filling the two vacancies pose other issues. Newcomers will be voting without having heard testimony and staff reports about landlord costs and profitability, housing availability, rent levels and tenant income. They will also have missed the chance to question speakers, hear board discussions and join in the debate. "There's no real way for them to catch up," said Michael McKee, associate director of New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition, a tenant advocacy group.
City officials and tenant advocates dismissed suggestions yesterday that the rent increases could be anywhere near 13 percent. An index of landlord costs, which the board uses to help decide increases, jumped by 8.7 percent in the last year, but that is only one of about four indicators considered by the board, Mr. Hochman said.
Mr. McKee said, "The whole buzz about 9 and 13 percent is a fraud, a stalking horse, to enable them to impose an unjust 6 and 8 and hope tenants breathe a sigh of relief." 
Mr. Sinacori could not be reached for comment yesterday.
Mr. McKee said he knew little about Mr. Sinacori, whom Mr. Harding described as "someone with a good understanding of the city government, a good understanding of real estate and the market in the city." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%) LIPTON, ERIC; LAMBERT, BRUCE; HOCHMAN, EDWARD S; SINACORI, STEVEN; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 



855 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: History Collides With Contrition as Jewish Group Honors a German 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
In a quiet watershed of Jewish philanthropy, the honoree at a UJA-Federation benefit dinner next month will be Thomas Middelhoff, the chief executive of Bertelsmann, a German media conglomerate that published Nazi propaganda for Hitler's army. 
 Those who chose Mr. Middelhoff to be honored at the Steven J. Ross dinner on May 15 stress that Mr. Middelhoff was born after the war and has investigated Bertelsmann's past and made what reparations he could. 
 "Of course we don't forget the Holocaust, but this is a man who was born in 1953, and has taken the company in a different direction," said Howard J. Rubenstein, co-chairman of the UJA-Federation of New York's media, communications and entertainment division, which puts on the annual Ross dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. "Israel recognizes Germany now. It's been more than 50 years. We thought about it, and we thought it was time. And the reaction I've heard has been positive. We've sold way over $1 million in tickets." 
But whatever the financial rewards, the decision to honor Mr. Middelhoff has raised difficult questions about when a corporate executive should be held responsible for his company's past; when it is time to forgive, if not forget; and whether the Jewish community is ready to move into a new relationship with German companies. 
"How long do you carry this on?" said Laurence Tisch, co-chairman of the Loews Corporation and a prominent Jewish philanthropist. "It's been 50, 60 years. You don't want to forget, but at some point, you do want some closure. I don't know when, in a big public company that has changed management three times, you should hold the C.E.O. responsible for the past. As I understand it, this is a company that's been attempting, through charity work, to make up for the past. I understand the concerns, but this doesn't bother me." 
But many American Jews, especially the children of Holocaust survivors, still carry a deep anger toward German companies that profited from the war: they would not dream of buying a Krups coffee grinder or a BMW. Some say that 50 years is nowhere near time enough to let go of that anger -- and that it is an outrage for a Jewish organization to give the head of such a company a humanitarian award, a decision they see as reflecting financial concerns at the expense of moral ones. 
"Try me in 5,000 years, and maybe we'll be ready to start talking," said Melvin Jules Bukiet, the editor of a forthcoming anthology of writings by the children of Holocaust survivors. "They should be ashamed of themselves at UJA. Are we allowing ourselves to be purchased? Of course we are, and it's an outrage. These are the Jews, the people predicated upon memory. At Passover every year, we say it's as if every one was there at Sinai. Perhaps they'd take it more seriously if we said that everyone was at Auschwitz." Healing, he said, is another word for forgetting -- and many in the second generation, like him, "prefer the open wound to closure." 
Some of those old enough to remember the war see the UJA honor to Mr. Middelhoff as a bitter dishonoring of the Jews killed during the war. 
"I don't think that people like Mr. Middelhoff should be held responsible for what happened, but I can't see honoring someone connected with that kind of past," said Gwendolyn Jacobs, an 83-year-old New Yorker. "It's a desecration, and I just think it's terrible for the UJA to do it. During the war, we did not do enough, fast enough, to react to the horrors. We didn't do enough then, and if we accept this kind of thing, again we're not doing enough." 
One prominent UJA donor, Matthew Bronfman, was so bothered by the plan to honor Mr. Middelhoff that he voiced his unhappiness to UJA officials, according to those involved in planning the dinner. Mr. Bronfman did not return phone calls seeking comment. Others familiar with the situation, however, said that the rest of the Bronfman family supported the choice of Mr. Middelhoff.
The $1,000-a-plate Ross dinner, at which Matthew Bronfman's brother Edgar Bronfman Jr. was a previous honoree, attracts some of the most prominent corporate and media figures in New York. This year, Tom Brokaw, the NBC News anchor, will be the master of ceremonies and Stephen M. Case, the chairman of AOL Time Warner, will present the award. 
Elie Wiesel, a writer and Holocaust survivor, will deliver the keynote speech. Last fall, Random House, which is owned by Bertelsmann, pledged $1 million to the Holocaust Survivors' Memoir Project, for which Mr. Wiesel is the honorary chairman. Mr. Wiesel said he agreed to speak because he trusted Mr. Middelhoff. "While it was in the end Random House that gave the money for the survivors' memoirs, the agreement was with Bertelsmann, and it was Middelhoff who made the commitment," Mr. Wiesel said. "He also called me, and he really seemed very upset when the stories of Bertelsmann's past came out. We discussed it at length, and my advice was to come clean, to let everything be open. And I believe he has done that." 
Not long after Mr. Middelhoff became chief executive in 1998, critical stories about Bertelsmann's war history appeared in The Nation magazine and a Swiss magazine. Mr. Middelhoff then created an independent commission, headed by the historian Saul Friedlaender, to look into the company's past. In January 2000, the commission found that Bertelsmann had not opposed Hitler, as the company had previously claimed. Rather, it said, the company had ties to the Nazis, and was the largest supplier of reading material, including Nazi propaganda, to the German military. Three months later, Bertelsmann announced that it would contribute to the German fund to compensate workers used as slave labor in the Nazi era. 
"What more can they do that they haven't done?" asked Kenneth J. Bialkin, a New York lawyer who is active in Jewish causes. "Should we wake up every morning and reindict? No one can ever undo what was done, but I don't think we can afford the luxury of hating, of self-pity about the past. There are people whose minds and hearts are set in a time warp of 50 years ago. But people, and companies, move on. The State of Israel has plenty of real enemies today. We need economic, financial, political and diplomatic support wherever we can get it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Middelhoff 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HOLOCAUST (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS 

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED JEWISH APPEAL (59%) BERTELSMANN AG; UNITED JEWISH APPEAL 

TICKER: L (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%)

PERSON: THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (92%) LEWIN, TAMAR; MIDDELHOFF, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) GERMANY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001 

 
